{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Oneiric Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

There were no actions identified during the meeting.

===== Oneiric Development =====

* Drafting on specs should be primary focus
* Secondary focus is merges

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

Just wrapped up UDS Oneiric, No other events on the immediate horizon.

===== QA Team =====

* Big changes in QA team structure going in place for Oneiric cycle
* Daily build PPA needs as many packages with test suites as possible

===== Kernel Team =====

* smb has been looking into building the Amazon AMI's kernel for Ubuntu, smoser pointed him to the right place.
* iscsitarget is on the block for removal from the Ubuntu kernel tree and moving into a DKMS. adam_g will help smb work out the details.
* Server related kernel bugs should have the tag 'kernel-server'

===== Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community =====

* Peer reviews are very much appreciated from any and all community members (Daviey)
* Also appreciated, test proposals, and SRU's, and ensemble formulas

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 24th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[17:03] <SpamapS> #startmeeting
[17:03] <Daviey> which looks like smoser is next, or am i mistaken?
[17:03] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:03. The chair is SpamapS.
[17:03] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[17:03] <Daviey> SpamapS, good stuff.
[17:03] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:03] <SpamapS> there were none, moving on
[17:04] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Oneiric Development
[17:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Oneiric Development
[17:04] <Daviey> Hello!
[17:04] <Daviey> No doubt everyone is still recovering from the rather successful week at UDS in Budapest last week.
[17:04] <Daviey> Whilst the sessions are still fresh in our mind, we need to turn to adding work items to the blueprints.  We should strive to have a first draft of blueprints done by the end of the week.  Some blueprints do not yet have a drafter assigned.  Between myself and Robbie, these will be allocated amongst the team with a a best effort of fair and logical choice.
[17:04] <smoser> (note, i did not send out meeting minutes after 2011-04-19, or add a meeitn page. i will do that now)
[17:04] <SpamapS> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric
[17:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric
[17:04] <Daviey> I will send a mail outlining the hows and whys following the meeting.
[17:04] <SpamapS> Totally worthless right now, but thought I'd share.
[17:04] <Daviey> i know smoser will cry if i paste it here.
[17:05] <Daviey> and when not spec'ing... merge, merge, merge!
[17:06] <smoser> if only we had services that could take a paste and turn it into a link.
[17:06] <Daviey> But blueprints our the priority right now :)
[17:06] <smoser> or a tool that could do that from stdin
[17:06] <SpamapS> and when not merging, triage! We're ridiculously behind
[17:06] <Daviey> smoser, is that possible?
[17:06] <Daviey> SpamapS, yes - well caught.
[17:06] <SpamapS> Anything else?
[17:06] <Daviey> That is all for now.  Thanks.
[17:07] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:07] <zul> SpamapS: it was more ridiculous yesterday morning
[17:07] <SpamapS> zul: yes nice job hammering it down :)
[17:07] <zul> and hallyn as well
[17:08] <SpamapS> Since we were all at UDS .. anybody else going to be somewhere or think we should be somewhere in the next month or so?
[17:09] <Daviey> not here, thank you :)
[17:09] <zul> at home resting our livers
[17:09] <SpamapS> Alright then
[17:09] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:09] <SpamapS> hggdh: good morning!
[17:09] <hggdh> good morning
[17:10] <hggdh> we are still working on the changes for this cycle, so input on what we should test for is welcome
[17:10] <SpamapS> hggdh: I'd be curious to hear how the build-time testing PPA that you had worked out last cycle.
[17:10] <SpamapS> Meant to ask at UDS
[17:11] <hggdh> it is there ;-) but we are not running a lot of builds
[17:11] <Daviey> hggdh, Is it documented anywhere?
[17:11] <hggdh> what we are looking for is to add in more packages with build-time checks (like, say, coreutils)
[17:11] <hggdh> just a sec and I will get the current list
[17:12] <SpamapS> I get a failure for pkgbinarymangler in my email quite often
[17:12] <hggdh> yes -- have to talk with pitti about that, been in the backburner
[17:12] <SpamapS> hggdh: shouldn't we be opening bugs for any failures we see?
[17:13] <hggdh> we can -- perhaps we should, actually
[17:13] <hggdh> so I will start doing it
[17:13] <Daviey> hggdh, \o/
[17:13] <SpamapS> I would almost think we could automate it, except we're limited in what recipes can do.
[17:13] <hggdh> I also have to update it for building on oneiric
[17:14] <SpamapS> Cool, well anyway, anything else to report? Otherwise I think we'll move on.
[17:14]  * Daviey ^5's hggdh 
[17:15] <hggdh> move on, dear sir, move on. Just please note that we need more packages on the daily build
[17:15] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:15] <smb> good tod
[17:15] <smb> I would have two questions
[17:16] <smb> One, to smoser, I was digging for the srpm for a amazon ami kernel. Does the get_reference_source command ring a bell to you?
[17:16] <smoser> smb, yeah, i gave you that in the etherpad
[17:16] <smoser> thats what you need to use
[17:16] <smoser> that will get you an SRPM
[17:17] <smb> smoser, damn missed that there somehow
[17:17] <smb> Ok thanks
[17:17] <smb> The other thing is iscsitarget
[17:17] <Daviey> erk.
[17:18] <smb> Currently there is two versions one ubuntu specific driver in the kernel and a dkms package. The kernel version currently does not compile (maybe got a fix there) and the dkms likely will fail on install
[17:18] <smb> Probably first thing to ask, do we have hardware to test this thing?
[17:18] <adam_g> which driver are we talkin about? ietd or the newer upstream generic target framework?
[17:19] <smb> Second would be whether it being a dkms module would be sufficient, so we could drop the kernel one
[17:19] <smb> iscsi_trgt.ko
[17:19] <SpamapS> can't it be tested using tgt ?
[17:20] <hggdh> (for the record: daily build for Natty: libvirt postgresql-8.4 mysql-5.1 openldap php5 python2.7 coreutils clamav cups gcc gdb pkgbinarymangler pkg-create-dbgsym)
[17:20]  * smb was hoping the server team knew how to test. :-P
[17:20] <SpamapS> hggdh: ty
[17:20] <adam_g> you can test using any block device/LV or raw file within a virtual machine
[17:21] <smoser> smb, just forwarded you mention of this: https://silverline.librato.com/blog/main/EC2_Users_Should_be_Cautious_When_Booting_Ubuntu_10_04_AMIs
[17:21] <smb> adam_g, Hm, ok. Maybe there is some simple howto for the setup...?
[17:21]  * Daviey fears adam_g just signed up to help test it :)
[17:21] <smb> smoser, ookay...
[17:21] <adam_g> smb: ive worked with it a bunch in the past, its very easy to setup (assuming we're talking about the same iscsi target)
[17:21] <adam_g> sure, i can help
[17:22] <zul> wait i thought tgt got promoted to main or something
[17:22] <SpamapS> Filename: pool/main/t/tgt/tgt_1.0.13-0ubuntu2_amd64.deb
[17:22] <smb> That would be cool
[17:22]  * zul shuts up
[17:22] <Daviey> adam_g / smb  (http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/ServeriSCSIRoot/KVMExample)
[17:23] <SpamapS> smb: I had a general question about bugs that we think might be kernel related..
[17:23] <smb> zul, package seems in universe for oneiric still
[17:23] <smb> SpamapS, Ok
[17:23] <smb> Daviey, Thanks
[17:23]  * RoAkSoAx thinkgs that adam_g just signed up to write documentation and test it :)
[17:23] <SpamapS> smb: thus far I've just added a task against the 'linux' source package and left it as New. Does that work within the kernel triaging framework? Like, will it ever be seen that way?
[17:24] <smb> SpamapS, I started to use a tag to make them searchable for me and give JFo some hints. Reminds me that I need to tell him (and you now) which exactÃ¶ly
[17:25] <adam_g> yes, i can help with iscsi testing/docs. im still a bit unclear as to which target we're using (im the new guy), since there a few
[17:25] <SpamapS> smb: if you don't have the tag list handy, you can send it to me offline later and I'll include it in the minutes.
[17:26] <smb> SpamapS, Here it is, I user kernel-server
[17:26] <smb> used even
[17:26] <SpamapS> adam_g: you can always assert which one you think we *should* be using.
[17:26] <SpamapS> smb: ty
[17:26] <SpamapS> ok, moving on?
[17:26] <adam_g> SpamapS: certainly
[17:26] <smb> Ok, I think I got a lot to work on
[17:27] <smb> adam_g, Will come back to you in case I need more info. :)
[17:27] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:27] <adam_g> smb: yeah, id like to find out which the kernel team prefers, as theres been a lot of work in this area upstream the last couple of kernels
[17:28] <Daviey> For community...
[17:28] <Daviey> Just a note that peer reviews of blueprints will be appreciated.
[17:29] <hggdh> and test proposals ;-)
[17:29] <Daviey> Yes!
[17:29] <zul> and SRUs
[17:29] <Daviey> and ensemble recipies :)
[17:29] <SpamapS> Pretty much anything short of insults to our mothers will be appreciated. :)
[17:29] <Daviey> This cycle we should see more interaction, and areas of oppertunity.
[17:29] <zul> we are that easy :)
[17:30] <SpamapS> I think we should also start thinking about acknowledging just how much of the Debian Development effort is centered around servers, and therefore, part of our community.
[17:31] <SpamapS> Anything else?
[17:31] <Daviey> not here.
[17:31] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[17:31] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[17:32]  * Daviey waves to adam_g 
[17:32] <SpamapS> Great UDS everybody!
[17:32] <SpamapS> hallyn_: you were missed.
[17:32] <zul> next time ill tape the demo
[17:32] <Daviey> adam_g is the newest member of the team, and is shortly going to show us how awesome he is.
[17:32]  * SpamapS covers his eyes
[17:32] <Daviey> zul, it was recorded.
[17:32] <adam_g> hi
[17:32] <adam_g> :)
[17:32] <zul> Daviey: seriously?
[17:33] <Daviey> zul, yeah, i thought they all were.
[17:33] <SpamapS> All plenaries are taped
[17:33] <Daviey> look out on youtube.
[17:33] <zul> oh...shoot :)
[17:33] <Daviey>  http://www.youtube.com/user/ubuntudevelopers <-- keep and eye out for our own zul
[17:33] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[17:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[17:34] <SpamapS> Tuesday, May 24th 2011 16:00 UTC
[17:34] <SpamapS> See you all there!
[17:34] <smoser> just an fyi, was reported to have been on my flight home.
[17:34] <smoser> err... "JAMES PAGE" was reported to have beeen on that flight.
[17:34] <SpamapS> smoser: REALLY
[17:34] <adam_g> confirmed
[17:34] <SpamapS> OMG
[17:34] <SpamapS> Thanks everybody
[17:34] <SpamapS> #endmeeting
</pre>
