{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Open Week -- Introduction -- Jorge Castro  -- Mon, May 2 ===
<pre>
[15:02] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/02/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[15:07] <jcastro> Good morning!
[15:07] <jcastro> ok sorry everyone I got my wires crossed this morning
[15:07]  * jcastro taps on the mic
[15:07] <jcastro> Ok welcome to Ubuntu Open Week
[15:08] <jcastro> this week we'll be doing a set of IRC workshops for Ubuntu Users
[15:08] <jcastro> every cycle we do a developer week, an application developer week, and then right after release when we've got a fresh release out we do this week
[15:08] <jcastro> which is User Week
[15:08] <jcastro> first let's start off with the schedule
[15:09] <jcastro> and then I'll show you how it works
[15:09] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
[15:09] <jcastro> These are the sessions that we'll be having this week
[15:09] <jcastro> Instructors will show up at their given time
[15:09] <jcastro> (unless they are late!) >_<
[15:09] <jcastro> and then for that hour you can watch their class and ask questions
[15:10] <jcastro> the way you ask questions is by also hanging out in #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[15:10] <jcastro> and then in there when you want to ask a question you'll go like this:
[15:10] <jcastro> QUESTION: Why can't Jorge figure out UTC conversions?
[15:10] <jcastro> and then a bot will scrape together all the questions
[15:10] <jcastro> and then paste them in here
[15:10] <jcastro> and then the presenter will answer them in here
[15:11] <jcastro> Note that we do have Mark coming in on Thursday morning
[15:11] <jcastro> so make sure you show up for that.
[15:11] <jcastro> So today we'll start off with an intro (this is it right here)
[15:11] <jcastro> where you can ask me anything about Ubuntu
[15:11] <jcastro> then we'll have a cloud intro session from Ahmed
[15:12] <jcastro> and then Bhavani is going to give an intro session on how to get started improving Ubuntu
[15:12] <jcastro> and then we'll cap it off with my introduction to Unity; where I'll go over some power user tips and tricks that you don't want to miss.
[15:12] <jcastro> ok so with that
[15:12] <jcastro> you can start kicking off your questions on #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[15:13] <jcastro> remember to preface your question with QUESTION:
[15:14] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: Why do you work for Canonical, and what do you tend to do?
[15:14] <jcastro> Why would be because it's an awesome place to work
[15:15] <jcastro> what I do for my job this past cycle was to help people get started with Unity development
[15:15] <jcastro> so things like "I want to fix unity how can I help?"
[15:15] <jcastro> or "I want to write a Unity lens", where can I find the documentation
[15:15] <jcastro> I also talk to upstream projects like thunderbird, shotwell, chromium, etc. on how we can better improve working with them and Ubuntu
[15:16] <ClassBot> candtalan asked: the schedule I see says Mark is coming on Wednesday 4 May, not thursday as jcastro just said - confirm please?
[15:16] <jcastro> oh yep, you're right, that is a Wednesday
[15:16] <jcastro> Wednesday at 1400 UTC will be Ask Mark
[15:16] <ClassBot> lengoanhcat asked: why choosing Unity as default interface instead of GNOME ? What pros and cons of that approach ?
[15:16] <jcastro> Unity is a shell for GNOME
[15:17] <jcastro> so right now we use lots of GNOME underneath Unity
[15:17] <jcastro> like GTK, the applications, etc.
[15:17] <jcastro> right now it's all GNOME 2.x
[15:17] <jcastro> for 11.10 we'll be moving the distro over to GNOME 3.x technology
[15:17] <jcastro> Unity is mostly GNOME 3.x ready
[15:17] <jcastro> so the desktop team has already started moving parts of GNOME3 and GTK3 into the distro
[15:18] <jcastro> and then the desktop experience (DX) team will put Unity on top of that
[15:18] <jcastro> As to the why, that's been covered a bunch of places before: http://arstechnica.com/open-source/news/2010/10/shuttleworth-unity-shell-will-be-default-desktop-in-ubuntu-1104.ars
[15:18] <jcastro> that mostly covers the why
[15:18] <ClassBot> envygeeks asked: Some people are speculating that Ubuntu might eventually move away from GNOME, can you confirm or deny Ubuntu's dedication to keeping GNOME a feature?
[15:19] <jcastro> Ubuntu isn't moving away from GNOME
[15:19] <jcastro> we use a bunch of GNOME technology
[15:19] <jcastro> a bunch of people in Ubuntu are GNOME people
[15:19] <jcastro> we still love and use GNOME
[15:19] <jcastro> Canonical itself is a member of the GNOME Foundation Advisory Board and continues to fund GNOME activities
[15:19] <jcastro> we just use a different shell on top of GNOME.
[15:20] <ClassBot> lgp171188 asked: Adding to lengoanhcat, Unity seems a total change to the desktop experience almost as much as GNOME3, but both seem to be kind of immature right now, not as customizable or fully functional as the classic GNOME. So a lot of us including me, feel that Ubuntu jumped the gun. Any information regarding that?
[15:20] <jcastro> that really depends on how you feel about Unity
[15:20] <jcastro> if your goal is to get work done then Unity does that
[15:21] <jcastro> if your goal is to customize everything to a pixel then Unity isn't designed for that
[15:21] <jcastro> Unity is designed to launch your apps, let you manage your apps, and get out of your way
[15:21] <jcastro> now that being said there are still some areas of Unity we can improve
[15:22] <jcastro> I wouldn't say "jumped the gun", but it is a radical change for users, which is what makes 11.04 the most important release we've ever done
[15:22] <jcastro> this is mostly the beginning of a new chapter in Ubuntu development.
[15:22] <ClassBot> bullgard4 asked: What is the IRC communication channel of the Desktop Team?
[15:22] <jcastro> you can find the desktop team in #ubuntu-desktop on freenode
[15:22] <jcastro> if you're looking for unity related topics, then #ayatana on freenode is the channel to discuss that
[15:23] <ClassBot> envygeeks asked: Adding to lgp171188's question.  Why did Canonical opt to go with Unity instead of adjusting GNOME 3 and waiting for 11.10 to do this?
[15:24] <jcastro> We feel that Unity is more aligned with what we want the user experience to be for Ubuntu users
[15:24] <jcastro> (also remember that at the time GNOME 3 was running a bit late and had been postponed for 2 cycles already)
[15:24] <jcastro> where as we had Unity mostly complete, it just needed the view to be rewritten for compiz
[15:25] <ClassBot> lengoanhcat asked: when designing Unity shell, a lot of designing ideas are added into. Can you specify what are those and how are they benefit users which simply wants to get the job done ?
[15:25] <jcastro> I can go into this more in my Unity session
[15:25] <jcastro> but I am not on the design team
[15:25] <jcastro> so let me just point you to some articles I've written about Unity
[15:26] <jcastro> http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity
[15:26] <jcastro> http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4787251665/giving-space-back-to-applications
[15:26] <jcastro> http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4494867256/how-i-use-the-unity-dash
[15:26] <jcastro> http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4472015615/how-i-multitask-in-unity
[15:26] <jcastro> (that last one is my favorite, I show you how I use Unity to multitask)
[15:26] <jcastro> and that's basically why I like it
[15:27] <ClassBot> lgp171188 asked: You mentioned that Unity is already almost GNOME 3.x ready and the porting to GNOME 3.x is already on the way. My question here is, GNOME3 offers almost everything that Unity does on top of classic GNOME. So are there any exciting things that are in the pipeline for Unity that will run on top of GNOME 3.x? Any value adds?
[15:27] <jcastro> ok so first off
[15:27] <jcastro> "classic GNOME" as we know it aka. GNOME 2.x is gone
[15:27] <jcastro> that means no old panel, and no more applets
[15:28] <jcastro> what is coming in Unity for 11.10 I won't have an answer for until next week
[15:28] <jcastro> as we haven't had the Ubuntu Developer Summit yet
[15:28] <jcastro> so keep an eye out for the plans for 11.10 here: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-o
[15:29] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: What about the default Gnome 3 fallback that is like Gnome 2,  that won't be available at all for 11.10? Or will it some how?  Also maybe some how, distro's can provide both anyway Gnome 2 and Gnome 3?  In fact wasn't that an idea for Ubuntu before, but then didn't happen for technical reasons?
[15:29] <jcastro> right
[15:29] <jcastro> so you can't technically do that
[15:29] <jcastro> you can't offer GNOME 3 and 2 on the same disc
[15:29] <jcastro> so for example
[15:29] <jcastro> right now in 11.04 we have GNOME 2.32
[15:30] <jcastro> if we want GNOME 3 then you need the libraries to be GNOME and GTK3
[15:30] <jcastro> so right now it's either one or the other
[15:30] <jcastro> this is why the upgrade to Unity and GNOME3/GTK3 takes two cycles
[15:30] <jcastro> we had to get Unity in first
[15:31] <jcastro> and then once GNOME3 is out take a cycle to move everything up to GNOME3/GTK3.
[15:31] <ClassBot> envygeeks asked: Are there plans to allow us to further customise Unity.  For example: I use multiple monitors, more than the average person and I prefer to work from right to left with my mouse, moving the icon menu from the left to the right would be far more ergonomic for me.
[15:32] <jcastro> there will definately be more work on multimonitor stuff
[15:32] <jcastro> Unity's multimonitor support right now is basically "a little bit better than GNOME2"
[15:32] <jcastro> there are still some areas we can improve there
[15:32] <jcastro> http://askubuntu.com/questions/9886/how-does-unity-work-in-multi-monitor-configurations
[15:33] <jcastro> as far as further customizations, you'll have to wait until UDS so we can figure out what the plan is going to be
[15:33] <jcastro> right now we're basically getting ready to cycle over into feature development
[15:33] <jcastro> so we're kind of in the middle of figuring that out
[15:33] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: Upstream Gnome has a fall back that is similar to Gnome 2, I was wondering if this may be available in 11.10 for people who want it, for example from the repos?
=== DrKenobi is now known as DrKenobi_
[15:33] <jcastro> yeah
[15:33] <jcastro> the nice thing is once all of GNOME3 is in the archive
=== DrKenobi_ is now known as DrKenobi2
[15:34] <jcastro> we can do things like that
[15:34] <jcastro> I am sure that the team who is working on the GNOME3 PPA will work on giving people an awesome pure-upstream GNOME experience in 11.10, however I'm not on that team so I won't make any promises for them. :)
[15:34] <jcastro> but now that 11.04 is out of the way there's nothing stopping us from doing a nice pure GNOME on 11.10 in universe
[15:35] <ClassBot> lgp171188 asked: Is Unity only for people who want to just get things done? GNOME 3 seems to be toeing a similar line? So what options does Ubuntu offer for those who want to customize and be in control of their desktops in addition to getting things done?
[15:35] <jcastro> there's tons of options that we've always had
[15:35] <jcastro> we have xubuntu
[15:35] <jcastro> kubuntu
[15:35] <jcastro> and (now getting close to more official support) lubuntu
[15:35] <jcastro> there are also plenty of other window managers in the archive
[15:35] <jcastro> I hear xmonad is popular if you're into tiling window managers
[15:36] <ClassBot> bullgard4 asked: When is UDS for 11.10 scheduled to be?
[15:36] <jcastro> Next week!
[15:36] <jcastro> http://uds.ubuntu.com/
[15:36] <jcastro> you can look at the schedule here: http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-o/
[15:37] <jcastro> more questions please!
[15:38] <jcastro> I have a full 20 minutes, more questions?
[15:38] <ClassBot> envygeeks asked: Can you highlight some of the future plans for Unity, how it will stay ahead of GNOME3 which is such close "internal competition"?
[15:38] <jcastro> hmmm, I still won't know our plans into next week
[15:38] <jcastro> but I can tell you some things I'd like to see us work on
[15:39] <jcastro> I'd like to see us expand lenses more so people can write cooler ones
[15:39] <jcastro> and I'd like to see the applications lens to be made simpler and easier to browse
[15:39] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: I know that starting with 11.10 Unity 2D will probably be offered as the fall back and so also Qt in the Ubuntu ISO, so do you think that Ubuntu will start having more Qt/KDE apps in the ISO?
[15:39] <jcastro> on the ISO? tough to tell
[15:40] <jcastro> we're basically saying "Qt apps are welcome by default"
[15:40] <jcastro> by offering Qt
[15:40] <jcastro> but it will be up to application developers to make the apps awesome
[15:40] <jcastro> so there probably won't be an explicit caring of wether it's Qt or GTK
[15:41] <jcastro> "app developers want Qt, and we make an OS that needs app developers, so we give app developers what they way" is the basic reason there
[15:41] <jcastro> !q
[15:41] <ClassBot> lengoanhcat asked: what is your most feature feature of Unity ?
[15:42] <jcastro> you probably mean my most favorite
[15:42] <jcastro> I would say the 'gnome do like workflow"
[15:42] <jcastro> I can just hit the super key
[15:42] <jcastro> (that's the windows key on most keyboards)
[15:42] <jcastro> and just start typing
[15:42] <jcastro> and it finds what I want
[15:42] <jcastro> so super+"ter" finds my terminal
[15:42] <jcastro> so it basically let's me find what I need without hunting and pecking
[15:43] <jcastro> it's like moving to google from using an old search engine that had categories for everything
[15:43] <jcastro> and you had to click around and you couldn't find anything
[15:43] <jcastro> now I can just type what I want to do
[15:43] <ClassBot> lgp171188 asked: I understand that 'lenses' is Unity jargon that will explained in Unity session, but can you give us a brief overview about it?
[15:43] <jcastro> sure
[15:43] <jcastro> ok so when you hit the super key we do this overlay thing
[15:43] <jcastro> it looks like a Quake terminal
[15:44] <jcastro> we call that the dash. We let people write little search things for that dash via a lens
[15:44] <jcastro> http://askubuntu.com/questions/38772/what-lenses-for-unity-are-available
[15:44] <jcastro> so for example
[15:44] <jcastro> a google books lens would search google books
[15:44] <jcastro> http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/install-unity-reddit-lens-in-ubuntu-deb.html
[15:45] <jcastro> a reddit lens would let you search from reddit right from the dash
[15:45] <jcastro> so the idea there is to let people integrate unity with whatever web services or applications they want
[15:45] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/Lenses/ has the documentation
[15:45] <jcastro> and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/Lenses/Ideas has a collection of ideas of lenses people would like to see
[15:45] <jcastro> (add your own to that list if you can think of something awesome)
[15:46] <jcastro> lenses are small, they're vala or python
[15:46] <jcastro> a python lens is about ~350 lines of code, so people can just start making tons of these things
[15:46] <ClassBot> candtalan asked: what would gnome 3 have to have been, to have avoided need for unity? Is it  re the User experience?
[15:46] <jcastro> sorry I can't speak hypothetically and in hindsight at the same time
[15:46] <jcastro> good question for Mark though
[15:46] <ClassBot> DrKenobi2 asked: have you ever think of doing a SDK like the ones Apple has?
[15:47] <jcastro> http://developer.ubuntu.com/
[15:47] <jcastro> we have a whole set of APIs and developer documentation that we're working on now
[15:47] <jcastro> I wouldn't call it an "SDK"
[15:47] <jcastro> but it's better than what we had last cycle (nothing)
[15:47] <jcastro> as we mature as a platform I'm sure we'll start to see something like that
[15:47] <ClassBot> envygeeks asked: When building Unity, do you guys think from all perspectives? Some of us give Ubuntu computers to our family.  I would like to know if you guys sit back and think: "If I give this to my grandmother, can she use it" when building UI's.  Motive: My mother found unity quite complicated and wanted Classic Ubuntu back.
[15:48] <jcastro> ah nice question
[15:48] <jcastro> yes, we do extensive user testing on Unity
[15:48] <jcastro> http://design.canonical.com/2011/04/unity-benchmark-usability-april-2011/
[15:48] <jcastro> here is a huge report on one of our findings
[15:49] <jcastro> we will continuously do user testing and use that feedback to improve unity
[15:49] <ClassBot> bullgard4 asked: I heard that there will be held a GNOME Desktop summit in Berlin, Germany, on August 6-12, 2011. Who are the official Ubuntu delegates to this summit?
[15:49] <jcastro> well we don't have "official delegates"
[15:49] <jcastro> a bunch of just go
[15:49] <jcastro> we had like ~25 people at the last GCDS
[15:49] <jcastro> there will be representatives from the desktop, design, and DX teams
[15:50] <jcastro> I usually go but I'll be moving this time
[15:50] <jcastro> and Mark usually attends GCDS and/or GUADEC
[15:50] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: What do you think about distro's such as Linux Mint, who have a version based on Ubuntu?
[15:50] <jcastro> no opinion really, too busy working on ubuntu. More Free Software is always good.
[15:51] <ClassBot> bullgard4 asked: Most Thinkpads do not have a "Super" key. What will be its substitute?
[15:51] <jcastro> yes you can configure the key
[15:51] <jcastro> and thinkpads also have a bios option that lets you set a key to super iirc
[15:52] <jcastro> but yeah, in Unity let's you change that key to whatever you'd like
[15:52] <jcastro> My new Thinkpad X120e came with a windows key
[15:52] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[15:52] <ClassBot> candtalan asked: super key - thinkpads - just use cursor click at icon top left hand side?
[15:53] <jcastro> http://askubuntu.com/questions/34145/can-i-define-keyboard-shortcuts-using-the-super-key
[15:53] <jcastro> here are the instructions for that if you have a thinkpad without a super key
[15:53] <ClassBot> envygeeks asked: (by way of raju) are you planning any summit in india ?
[15:53] <jcastro> there was just a huge Ubuntu event in India
[15:53] <jcastro> but UDS itself is usually in Europe or North America (centralized areas)
[15:53] <jcastro> though I would love to go to India
[15:53] <jcastro> and Brazil!
[15:54] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: I don't really know much about the teams at Canonical, but can you explain why your on Jono's community team?
[15:54] <jcastro> yes so he's the community manager
[15:54] <jcastro> and the 4 of us build communities around ubuntu
[15:54] <jcastro> I do external developer relations
[15:54] <jcastro> daniel focuses on growing internal developers
[15:54] <jcastro> like making things easier to fix, etc.
[15:55] <jcastro> david grows translations and application developers
[15:55] <jcastro> and kim0 (who has a session coming up after this) focuses on growing the cloud and server communities
[15:55] <ClassBot> raju asked: where i can get the details of the summit in india
[15:55] <jcastro> nigelb attended the summit in india, ping him on IRC
[15:56] <jcastro> (you just missed it!)
[15:56] <ClassBot> lgp171188 asked: When Ubuntu introduced upstart a few releases back to improve start-up, it was a great step in that direction. But now with alternatives like systemd coming up, will Ubuntu consider them? Is there any info regarding that?
[15:56] <jcastro> we won't be looking at systemd until at least /after/ the next LTS release (12.04)
[15:57] <jcastro> http://undacuvabrutha.wordpress.com/2011/04/29/why-ubuntu-should-continue-with-upstart-for-11-10/
[15:57] <jcastro> this blog post should answer your questions on upstart/systemd
[15:57] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[15:57] <jcastro> I have time for one more!
[15:58] <ClassBot> lgp171188 asked: Fedora has pioneered something called 'Consistent Network Device naming'. Is ubuntu going to adopt that?
[15:58] <jcastro> I saw that, it looks pretty awesome
[15:58] <jcastro> I haven't followed server/plumbing as much as I should  have this cycle
[15:58] <jcastro> you can ask someone on #ubuntu-server though
[15:59] <jcastro> ok well that about wraps it up
[15:59] <jcastro> thanks for all the questions, we got through a  bunch!
[15:59] <jcastro> and now kim0's going to wow you with cloud.
[15:59] <jcastro> so take a minute break!
[16:00] <jcastro> kim0: all set?
</pre>
