{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* New members integration
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Merges =====

mathiaz reminded that the Ubuntu Developers were now focusing on merging packages from Debian into Karmic. 104 outstanding merges in <nowiki>[[https://merges.ubuntu.com/main.html|main]]</nowiki> and 196 outstanding merges in <nowiki>[[https://merges.ubuntu.com/universe.html|universe]]</nowiki> were waiting to be processed at the time of the meeting. Any questions about merges should be asked in #ubuntu-motu or #ubuntu-devel on Freenode.

ACTION: mathiaz to update the list of easy-merges for the Server team.

===== Karmic Alpha2 =====

mathiaz reported that the next milestone for Karmic was scheduled for Thursday. The Ubuntu Server team will conduct testing of the ubuntu-server isos. Testing is coordinated via the <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|Iso testing tracker]]</nowiki> where Alpha2 candidates will be posted for review. Once available <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/|test cases]]</nowiki> are run for each iso candidates. Help in this area over the next few days is welcomed.

===== Drafting specifications =====

mathiaz reminded that specifications should be finalized this week in time for FeatureDefinitionFreeze.

===== New members integration =====

ttx asked for a quick presentation of the different roles that could be taken as part of the Ubuntu Server Team since last week a couple of new faces attended the meeting. mathiaz gave a brief overview presenting support, bug triage, packaging, documentation as the main area to start contributing. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved|The GettingInvolved page]]</nowiki> in the Server Team wiki has more information on how to get started.

===== Heartbeat 2.99 in Karmic =====

RoAkSoAx announced that version 2.99 of heartbeat had been available in Debian experimental and wondered whether it should be synced in Karmic. mathiaz asked how stable 2.99 was compared to the version currently in unstable (and karmic). RoAkSoAx reported that the Cluster Resource Manager code had been removed from Heartbeat since 2.99.x and replaced by Pacemaker. The Debian maintainer team plans to upload 2.99 to unstable once the last round of testing has been done in experimental. 

RoAkSoAx added that he had published package for karmic in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~andreserl/+archive/ppa|his PPA]]</nowiki>. He plans on conducting some more testing on the packages and asked for more testing from the community as well.

ACTION: RoAkSoAx to write a test case for heartbeat
ACTION: RoAkSoAx to write a blog post for a call for testing heartbeat 2.99 from a PPA

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 16th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:01] <soren> o/
[16:01] <kirkland> o/
[16:02] <mathiaz> Today's crazy agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <mathiaz> What happened last week?? -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090602
[16:02] <mathiaz> ttx: thanks for running the meeting last week
[16:03] <ttx> mathiaz: my pleasure
[16:03] <mathiaz> ttx: and preparing the minutes
[16:03] <mathiaz> Any actions from last week meeting?
[16:03] <mathiaz> I don't see any on the wiki page
[16:03] <pace_t_zulu> did i miss the bugsquad meeting?
[16:04] <ttx> mathiaz: did you review new members applications, if any ?
[16:04] <ttx> that was an hidden implied action :)
[16:04] <mathiaz> pace_t_zulu: it's in one hour according to http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar
[16:05] <alex_muntada> ttx: sure he did, i'm in :-)
[16:05] <mathiaz> ttx: new members application for the server team in LP?
[16:05] <ttx> alex_muntada: heh, welcome :)
[16:05] <ttx> mathiaz: yes
[16:05] <mathiaz> ttx: yes - I went through most of the applicate yesterday
[16:05] <mathiaz> *application*
[16:05] <pace_t_zulu> mathiaz: thanks... i need to figure out UTC ;)
[16:06] <mathiaz> As of today there are 173 members of the ubuntu-server team in LP
[16:06] <mathiaz> pace_t_zulu: date -u will always give the UTC time
[16:06] <mathiaz> Anything else from last week meeting?
[16:07] <ttx> mathiaz: nothing from me
[16:08] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on
[16:08] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Merges
[16:08] <mathiaz> so the development team is focusing on merging packages from debian
[16:08] <mathiaz> There are 104 outstanding merges in main
[16:08] <mathiaz> (https://merges.ubuntu.com/main.html)
[16:09] <mathiaz> and 196 outstanding merges in universe
[16:09] <mathiaz> (https://merges.ubuntu.com/universe.html)
[16:10] <mathiaz> For those of you that are interested in packageing and already have a bit of knowledge of packaging pick one package out of the list and work on a merge
[16:10] <mathiaz> once you've got something file a bug in LP and ask for sponsorship
=== pgraner_ is now known as pgraner-afk
[16:10] <mathiaz> I'll publish another list of packages that look easy to merge
[16:11] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to update the list of easy-merges for the Server team
[16:11] <mathiaz> If you have any questions about the merge process or packaging in general, stop by #ubuntu-motu or #ubuntu-devel
[16:11] <mathiaz> Any questions about Merges?
[16:12] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, related to that, would you be able to sponsor openvpn please? bug #372358
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 372358 in openvpn "Please merge openvpn 2.1~rc15-1 (main) from Debian unstable (main)" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/372358
[16:12] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: It's on my TODO list - I'll have a look at it
[16:12] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, cool thank you :)
[16:13] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: sorry for not processing earlier - I was busy with UDS
[16:13] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, np :)
[16:14] <alex_muntada> mathiaz: i'll pick one from the list once it's been updated, it'll be my first merge
[16:14] <mathiaz> alex_muntada: great - I'll publish it in the Roadmap wiki page
[16:14] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:14] <alex_muntada> yeah, I'm already subscribed ;-)
[16:15] <mathiaz> If there isn't anything else related to Merges, let's move on
[16:16] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Karmic Alpha2
[16:16] <pace_t_zulu> is there a city that is always in UTC?
[16:16] <mathiaz> pace_t_zulu: no
[16:16] <mathiaz> So we're gearing up for the next milestone release
[16:16] <mathiaz> alpha2 is scheduled for Thursday
[16:17] <mathiaz> The archive is still soft-frozen until then
[16:17] <mathiaz> so hold on to your upload unless they fix a blocker for alpha2
[16:17] <mathiaz> That also means iso testing will be required in the coming days
[16:17] <mathiaz> as we're responsible for testing the ubuntu-server iso
[16:18] <mathiaz> iso candidates will be posted to http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/ once ready
[16:18] <mathiaz> so if you wanna help out testing the isos, subscribe to the Server amd64 and i386 test cases
[16:19] <mathiaz> and you'll get automatically notified when new candidates are available for testing
[16:19] <soren> pace_t_zulu: Reykjavik, Iceland.
[16:19] <mathiaz> stop by #ubuntu-testing to follow what's going on
[16:20] <mathiaz> Testcases for ubuntu-server isos are described on the testcase wiki:
[16:20] <mathiaz> http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/ServerWhole
[16:21] <mathiaz> http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/
[16:21] <mathiaz> Any help in conducting the test cases and reporting results to the Iso tracker is welcome
[16:22] <mathiaz> Any questions wrt to Alpha2 and/or the iso testing process?
[16:24] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on
[16:25] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Drafting specifications
[16:25] <mathiaz> According to the KarmicReleaseSchedule: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicReleaseSchedule
[16:25] <mathiaz> Specifications should be finalized this week in time for FeatureDefinitionFreeze
[16:26] <mathiaz> So how is everyone doing wrt to their specification draft?
[16:26] <sommer> :-)... but mines pretty easy
[16:26] <ttx> mathiaz: it will be a busy week :)
[16:27] <mathiaz> I've started to write down notes on the session I lead at UDS
[16:27]  * soren is doing ok
[16:27] <soren> Thanks for asking :)
[16:27] <mathiaz> sommer: Thanks for taking notes - they're precious while writting down things
[16:28] <ttx> soren: that's because you're a born drafter.
[16:28] <sommer> mathiaz: np
[16:28] <soren> ttx: HAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAH!
[16:28] <soren> ttx: Good one. I get it :)
[16:28] <mathiaz> I've already written down some draft for the directory related sessions:
[16:28] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NetworkDirectoryArchitecture
[16:28] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NetworkDirectoryUserLogin
[16:29] <mathiaz> Although they're not in a final state yet, feedback/comments on them is welcome :)
[16:31] <mathiaz> Any questions on the specification draft process?
[16:32] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on.
[16:33] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open discussion
[16:33] <mathiaz> anyone?
[16:33] <ttx> mathiaz: is it where we discuss the "New members integration" topic ?
[16:33] <mathiaz> ttx: sure
[16:34] <mathiaz> ttx: open discussion is when there is nothing left on the agenda or on my topic to discuss list
[16:34] <ttx> mathiaz: well, that topic was on the agenda ;)
[16:34] <mathiaz> ttx: hm - you are right
[16:34] <ttx> Last week we had so many new heads around, I thought there was a need to explain the different areas of contribution
[16:35] <mathiaz> I missread the Agenda
[16:35] <ttx> so taht newcomers could tell us where they think they would best fit
[16:35] <mathiaz> ttx: good idea
[16:35] <ttx> mathiaz: could you detail the different types of server team actions ?
[16:36] <ttx> or should I ?
[16:36] <mathiaz> the GettingInvolved page has a list of different roles:
[16:36] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved
[16:36] <mathiaz> Help on the mailing list and the IRC channel
[16:37] <mathiaz> The helpers answers questions on the ubuntu-server mailing list, the #ubuntu-server irc channel and the server forums.
[16:37] <mathiaz> Triagers dig into bugs the ubuntu-server LP team is subscribed to.
[16:37] <mathiaz> Our LP team is a bug contact for a list packages, such as samba, openldap, mysql or apache2.
[16:37] <mathiaz> he current list of packages can be found in Launchpad (https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+packagebugs) and is growing every release.
[16:37] <ttx> hm, we lost like 75% of our new heads in one week :)
[16:38] <alex_muntada> :-D
[16:38] <mathiaz> Once bugs have been triaged, it's time to fix them. This is when the packagers come into the game.
[16:38] <mathiaz> This role requires an interest in packaging.
[16:38] <mathiaz> We maintain a list of bugs that are easy to fix: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+mentoring
[16:38] <mathiaz> Fixes can make their way into the ubuntu repositories via the sponsorship process as described in the wiki page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SponsorshipProcess
[16:38] <mathiaz> Doing work on the packaging front leads to a close a collaboration with the MOTU team and is a great way to gain experience to become a MOTU - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU
[16:39] <mathiaz> Testing is another way to take part of the Server Team activity. This role doesn't require a lot of deep technical knowledge.
[16:39] <mathiaz> Browsing the ubuntu-server mailing list archive, lurking in the #ubuntu-server irc channel or going through the forum posts shows patterns in user's questions.
[16:39] <mathiaz> Recurring themes are identified and turned into documentation. A wiki page in the community section of help.ubuntu.com is first created. Once the quality has improved, a new section is added to the server guide.
[16:39] <mathiaz> All this work is undertaken by the Documentors of the Server Team.
[16:40] <mathiaz> Adam Sommer (sommer) leads the update and review of the Ubuntu Server guide. The source document is maintained in a bzr tree. Helping Adam will introduce you to docbook and distributed versioning with bazaar.
[16:40]  * sommer \o/
[16:40] <mathiaz> So these are the different roles one can take to get started with the Server team
[16:40] <mathiaz> support, bug triage, packaging, documentation
[16:41] <mathiaz> there are other ways to get involved but these are the main ones.
[16:41] <mathiaz> Most of the information related to the ServerTeam can be found in the ServerTeam wiki pages: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam.
[16:41] <mathiaz> If you're overwhelmed by all the available information and you're lost, come talk to me. You can find me in #ubuntu-server amongst other channels. I'll help get out of the mist and we'll find a way you can get involved in the Server Team.
[16:42] <mathiaz> Any questions?
[16:42] <ttx> alex_muntada: is it clear ? do you see where you would best fit ?
[16:43] <alex_muntada> ttx: I think I'll start with a bit of support, triaging and testing maybe packaging and documenting a bit later
[16:43] <ttx> alex_muntada: sounds great !
[16:44] <mathiaz> great
[16:44] <alex_muntada> there's a lot of stuff to learn, I'll start slowly ;-)
[16:44] <mathiaz> any other questions?
[16:45] <RoAkSoAx> I do have something to report: Regarding to the Ubuntu-HA team... Debian has already Heartbeat 2.99.3 in experimental. That is one of the packages we want in Ubuntu, along with pacemaker and openais. However it is not a good idea to sync it from Debian yet, right?  I've uploaded it to my PPA though, so that I can start doing some testing.
[16:45] <mathiaz> be it related to getting started or anything else *somehow* related to the Server team
[16:45] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: which version is in unstable for now?
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, same as the one in Ubuntu 2.1.4
[16:46] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: why the version in experimental should be pulled in instead of unstable?
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, Heartbeat from 2.99.x and up now uses Pacemaker as the Cluster Resource Manager
[16:47] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: is 2.99 stable according to upstream?
[16:47] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, and it's recommended by upstream to use Pacemaker from now on
[16:47] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: or is it just a beta that in time will become 3.0 (as the versionning seems to suggest)
[16:47] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: ?
[16:47] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes it will become 3.0
[16:48] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: so would you use 2.99 in a production environment?
[16:48] <RoAkSoAx> in the talk I had with horms, he pretty much told me that those packages where going to debian experimental for final testing.. and if they passed the tests, they were going to sid as stable
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, they have also settled a debian-ha team to handle this packages
[16:49] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: horms is the debian maintainer?
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes
[16:50] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: what's the timeline for getting 2.99 in unstable?
[16:50] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, I actually don't know yet. I'll talk to him about that... though he told me it was a big transition getting the code out of heartbeat and leave it in Pacemaker
[16:50] <RoAkSoAx> so they were requiring testing
[16:52] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: ok - it seems that the version in ubuntu doesn't have any change
[16:52] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: so if hearbeat hits unstable, it will be pulled in ubuntu automatically before DebianImportFreeze
[16:53] <mathiaz> (which happens end of June)
[16:53] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, stable debian version and ubuntu version are the same. the Cluster Resource Manager code has been removed from Heartbeat since 2.99.x , and it now uses Pacemaker as the CRM
[16:53] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: right
[16:53] <mathiaz> So it seems that testing is what's required for now
[16:54] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes, and that's on my ToDo list :)
[16:54] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: Have you uploaded the experimental package to a PPA?
[16:55] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes it is on my PPA: https://launchpad.net/~andreserl/+archive/ppa I'll start testing and provide a testing case and then call for help
[16:55] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: seems like a good plan to me
[16:55] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: using the ubuntu-ha team to call for testing and a blog post
[16:55] <RoAkSoAx> indeed
[16:56] <mathiaz> allright anything else before we wrap up?
[16:56] <RoAkSoAx> not from me
[16:56] <mathiaz> [ACTION] RoAkSoAx to write a test case for heartbeat
[16:56] <mathiaz> [ACTION] RoAkSoAx to write a blog post for a call for testing heartbeat 2.99 from a PPA
[16:57] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] # Agree on next meeting date and time.
[16:57] <mathiaz> Next week, same place, same time?
[16:57] <sommer> sure
[16:58] <mathiaz> all right then
[16:58] <mathiaz> see you all next week, same place, same time
[16:58] <mathiaz> happy iso testing
[16:58] <mathiaz> and merges
[16:58] <mathiaz> ... and specs...
[16:59] <mathiaz> see you all around
[16:59] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
