{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   10:00 ogra          hmm, another extremely filled agenda :P
   10:00 Hobbsee       hiya StevenK!
   10:00 Hobbsee       ogra: where is said agenda?
   10:00 StevenK       On the wiki
   10:00 ogra          https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoardAgenda
   10:00 Keybuk        ogra: I don't know if we'll get Q tonight
   10:00 ogra          well, depends on mdz i guess
   10:00 Keybuk        mdz and sabdfl are at the management love-in in Barcelona
   10:00 ogra          wasnt that mallorca ?
   10:00 Keybuk        somewhere in Spain
   10:01 ogra          yeah
   10:01 ogra          where the sangria flows
   10:01 Hobbsee       Keybuk: cant they find someone else to step in and vote if we dont have quorum?
   10:01 ogra          well, mjg59 is here i think
   10:01 ogra          is two quorum for the TB ?
   10:02 Keybuk        two, yes
   10:02 mjg59         Evening
   10:02 ogra          :)
   10:02 Hobbsee       hi mjg59
   10:02 Tonio_        hi mjg59
   === StevenK waves to mjg59.
   10:02 Keybuk        aha
   10:02 Keybuk        so let's get the party started
   === StevenK tries and fails to rub the sleep out of his eyes.
   10:02 Toadstool     hey mjg59
   10:02 ogra          wuld be a shame if Hobbsee woudnt get approved :P
   === Hobbsee heads for the coke to wake up
   10:03 Keybuk        Hobbsee: off you go
   10:03 mjg59         Shall we get on with things, then?
   10:03 Hobbsee       ogra: if that happened, whoever *didnt* do the approving would get me bugging them for all future uploads
   10:03 Keybuk        Hobbsee: so you want to be an uploader?
   10:03 Hobbsee       Keybuk: sorry, what do you want?
   10:03 Hobbsee       Keybuk: yes
   10:03 ogra          Hobbsee, three liner intro
   10:03 Hobbsee       https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hobbsee is the wiki page
   10:03 Hobbsee       shoot, sorry, i dotn have a three liner today...
   10:04 Keybuk        Hobbsee: well, introduce yourself
   === gnomefreak kept her up late with kaffeine
   === Hobbsee meant to write that, but got sidetracked fixing amarok, and then dealing with kaffeine
   10:04 Keybuk        "I don't have an introduction, I've been too busy fixing bugs" ... yup, that suffices as an introduction for me <g>
   10:04 Hobbsee       right, well, i'm Sarah Hobbs, in sydney, and i do a lot of kubuntu stuff
   10:04 Hobbsee       Keybuk: :P
   === ogra puts on miniskirt and pompoms
   === Hobbsee runs at that thought
   === imbrandon joins ogra
   10:05 imbrandon     lol
   10:05 Keybuk        Hobbsee: so you'd be doing more Kubuntu work if you had upload privileges?
   10:05 Hobbsee       i'm on the Kubuntu Community Council, and i pretty much end up organising a lot of kubuntu
   10:05 Hobbsee       Keybuk: well, likely, but i also do run out of time, being a full time student, and working as well
   === LaserJock [n=mantha@ubuntu/member/laserjock] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:05 Hobbsee       Keybuk: it's more that i wouldnt have to bug a few million people to have to upload my fixes
   10:05 Hobbsee       in the future i'll likely go for core dev
   10:06 Keybuk        are any of those people who have sponsored you so far here today?
   10:06 Hobbsee       in fact, you could give me those rights today to :P
   10:06 StevenK       Yes, I'm here.
   10:06 Hobbsee       Keybuk: sure, StevenK, Riddell, raphink,
   10:06 Keybuk        StevenK: how have you found Hobbsee's work?
   10:06 Hobbsee       there are more...brain's not quite here yet
   10:06 Riddell       I support Hobbsee as MOTU (and main before too long I expect) uploader, she's done great stuff with a lot of kubuntu packages
   10:07 StevenK       Keybuk: She knows what she's doing.
   === ogra cheers loudly ...
   10:07 Hobbsee       Riddell actually approves of me organising and bossing everyone around, which is surprising
   10:07 Keybuk        mjg59: any questions from you?
   10:07 imbrandon     and helps other motu hopefulls like myself tremendusly
   10:07 Hobbsee       ajmitch, bddebian, both of whom arent here
   10:07 Tonio_        I can confirm she is extremly active, tracking bugs, providing patches
   10:07 mjg59         Sorry, just getting through the wiki page
   10:07 Hobbsee       zakame too, who also istn here
   10:07 Tonio_        and it is a long time effort
   10:07 LaserJock     Hobbsee's definately an asset to MOTU
   10:07 jjesse        and those that aren't even motu she is great
   10:07 Hobbsee       (where is everyone this morning!)
   10:08 StevenK       Sleeping, duh.
   10:08 Hobbsee       bah.
   === ogra waves with the pompoms
   10:08 mjg59         Hobbsee: How do you think Kubuntu can be improved, other than simply by adding new packages and fixing bugs?
   === LaserJock lifts ogra on his shoulders
   10:08 ogra          haha
   === imbrandon steals ogra's pompoms to wave them too
   10:08 Hobbsee       mjg59: well, that's certainly a part of it
   === toma [n=toma@toma.kovoks.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:09 Hobbsee       mjg59: since dapper, we've been getting more people interested in development, both me, and then other people as well
   10:09 Hobbsee       of course, these people have different levels of skills, and are looking for things to do
   10:09 mjg59         Hobbsee: So what sort of integration issues do you see as important?
   10:09 Hobbsee       (sorry for bad spelling, i cant see the keyboard)
   10:10 Hobbsee       i'm looking at finding things for them to do, and making lists, so that we can put all of our developers to good use, as there's a severe lack of manpower in kubuntu
   10:10 Hobbsee       Riddell's awesome, but he is only one man.
   === crimsun [n=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:10 Hobbsee       mjg59: well, stuff like the fact that kubuntu-desktop got removed during upgrade - someone should have tested that, etc.  it took a month or so for a screensaver bug to get fixed
   10:11 Hobbsee       all of that could have been done stacks earlier with the right people in place, and the people who are able to fix such bugs/implement such fixes to have the permissions to do it
   === Hobbsee suspects that she's going off on a tangent here - sorry, it's still very early
   10:11 mjg59         And you have plans for doing so?
   10:11 Hobbsee       mjg59: yes :)
   10:11 mjg59         Excellent
   10:11 Hobbsee       mjg59: i'll quite likely run out of time though
   10:11 mjg59         Happens to the best of us
   10:12 Hobbsee       mjg59: so i'll probably need to work out something around that
   10:12 mjg59         (Argh, argh, I have far too much to do at the moment)
   10:12 Hobbsee       crimsun: as well on the list of uploaders
   10:12 Hobbsee       mjg59: i wrote a to-do list yesterday while my car was being serviced - it's shockingly long :P
   10:12 mjg59         Riddell: you think Hobbsee would make a good team member, then?
   10:12 ogra          Hobbsee, just strike everything that hasnt *buntu in it :)
   10:13 Keybuk        mjg59: did you need any more fly spray?
   === Hobbsee did a gnome fix recently, and almost died of shock. :P
   10:13 mjg59         Keybuk: The flies are, thankfully, history
   10:13 Riddell       mjg59: certainly do
   10:13 mjg59         Ok, I think I'm done
   10:14 Keybuk        votes@
   === ogra cheers a bit more
   10:14 Hobbsee       hehe :)
   10:14 Keybuk        an emphatic +1 from me, Hobbsee has been an asset to the team so far!
   10:14 mjg59         +1, based on solid recommendations
   10:14 Hobbsee       yay :D
   10:14 ogra          YAY
   10:14 ogra          congrats Hobbsee
   10:14 StevenK       Woot
   10:14 imbrandon     congrats
   10:14 Toadstool     congrats Hobbsee
   10:14 Gloubiboulga_ congrats Hobbsee :)
   === jjesse cheers for Hobbsee
   10:14 gnomefreak    congrats Hobbsee  ;)
   10:14 LaserJock     \o/
   10:14 Tonio_        congratulations Hobbsee, you really deserve it
   10:14 Hobbsee       guess i'll have to seriously think about core dev now hey?
   10:14 Hobbsee       thankyou all :D
   10:14 mjg59         Anyone else?
   10:14 toma          Hobbsee: concrats!
   === ogra puts on more sane clothes again in case elmo lurks
   === imbrandon does a little dance , sings a little song .... oops wrong chan
   10:15 Toadstool     mjg59: yep, me
   10:15 Keybuk        Toadstool: you're up next
   10:15 Toadstool     ok thx Keybuk
   10:15 Hobbsee       haha
   10:15 Toadstool     I am Jrmie Corbier.
   10:15 Toadstool     I've been using Ubuntu since Warty and been working on it for about 6 months. I've started with my wide-dhcpv6 package then I've continued with triaging and fixing random bugs. Now i'm packaging a few more apps and libs (mmpython is now in universe and Debian sid). I'm working on slim and freevo too.
   10:15 Toadstool     LP: https://launchpad.net/people/jcorbier
   10:15 Toadstool     Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JeremieCorbier
   10:15 Toadstool     Hobbsee: :p
   10:15 Keybuk        Toadstool: what kinds of things have you been doing in Ubuntu so far?
   10:16 Keybuk        and what kinds of things would you like to do if approved for upload?
   10:16 Toadstool     I've done a lot of bug triaging and/or fixing in Universe
   10:16 Toadstool     and I'll keep on working as an Ubuntu squad member
   10:16 Keybuk        you also do transaltion work, I believe?
   10:17 Toadstool     indeed
   10:17 Toadstool     not as much as I would like though
   10:17 ogra          Toadstool is quite active in #ubuntu-bugs
   10:17 Keybuk        who has been sponsoring your uploads to date?
   10:17 Toadstool     Gloubiboulga_, crimsun mainly
   10:17 crimsun       I've sponsored a few. Jrmie has been doing great work with universe packaging.
   10:17 Toadstool     and bddebian
   10:17 Toadstool     there are others
   === apokryphos [n=apokryph@host-84-9-32-136.bulldogdsl.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:17 Toadstool     dholbach too but he's not here
   10:18 LaserJock     I sponsored one of his AMD64 fixes for ghemical, he is also helping a bit with MOTU Science which has been a help
   10:18 Gloubiboulga_ yep, his bug fixes are always nice and I never had to tell him to change a thing
   === j_ack [n=rudi@p508D93DD.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:19 Gloubiboulga_ I've also published some of his comments on REVU, and he is really helpuful on #ubuntu-motu too
   10:19 Toadstool     I forwarded the AMD64 fix for ghemical to Debian and upstream and it was included
   10:19 LaserJock     yeah, that was nice work
   10:19 Toadstool     unfortunately, ghemical is heavily broken for the moment :/
   10:19 Keybuk        and what kinds of things would you like to do if approved for upload?
   10:20 LaserJock     Toadstool: it just needs a sync actually :-)
   10:20 Toadstool     yeah? nice :)
   10:21 Toadstool     Keybuk: keep on working on bugs first and package some more apps, and help MOTU wannabe
   10:21 Toadstool     +s
   10:21 mjg59         Toadstool: You've done quite a lot of work in collaboration with Debian. What other things do you think we could do to improve that?
   10:21 Toadstool     there a lot of things moving in the way patches are given back to debian iirc, in the pts for example
   10:22 Toadstool     and a new chan on oftc has been created to improve communication with debian and 'im already on it :)
   10:22 mjg59         Excellent
   10:22 Toadstool     unfortunately it doesn't have as success as I would have expected first
   10:23 Toadstool     maybe a lack of advertisement
   === slomo [n=slomo@ubuntu/member/slomo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:24 Toadstool     i'm trying to report as many debian packaging bugs as possible in the debian bts too
   10:24 mjg59         I approve wholeheartedly
   10:24 Toadstool     and when i package something i try to get it included in sid too
   10:25 Toadstool     so far, my two packages are in universe and sid
   10:25 Keybuk        http://people.debian.org/~terpstra/message/20060718.201847.4d546c27.en.html
   10:25 Keybuk        Toadstool: how do you think we can combat reactions like that ^ from Debian people?
   10:25 Keybuk        this particular maintainer's response to Ubuntu e-mailing patches has been to killfile us
   10:26 Toadstool     well, that's a pity that some debian maintainer react this way
   10:26 Toadstool     maybe show them that our patches are worth the inclusion in debian by posting them in the bts first
   10:27 Toadstool     when they don't want to consider the inclusion using the new pts stuff
   10:27 Toadstool     otoh that's a huge amount of work
   10:28 Toadstool     maybe there should have a collaboration team, the same as utnubu on debian side
   10:28 Toadstool     s/there/we/
   === Fracture [n=Fracture@dsl-202-173-191-84.qld.westnet.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:29 Keybuk        did you see http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DCT ?
   10:29 lucas         :p
   10:29 Toadstool     no, I'm on it, lucas just told me about it :)
   10:29 lucas         I was just saying to Toadstool that we should talk together about it
   10:30 Keybuk        mjg59: any other questions?
   10:30 mjg59         Nope, I'm good
   10:30 Keybuk        votes?
   10:31 mjg59         +1 for seeming competence and a great attitude towards working with Debian
   10:31 Keybuk        +1 from me also
   10:31 Toadstool     thanks everybody :)
   10:31 imbrandon     congrats Toadstool ;)
   10:31 Hobbsee       yay Toadstool!
   10:31 Tonio_        congrats Toadstool :)
   10:31 Gloubiboulga_ congrats Toadstool :)
   10:32 Keybuk        anyone else for ubuntu-dev who didn't make it to an earlier meeting?
   === Hobbsee looks down the list. dotn see anyone
   10:32 lucas         (just privmsgd to Keybuk:) it would be great if, after processing dev candidates, we could discuss the DCT a bit. I haven't had a lot of feedback from the ubuntu side.
   10:33 Keybuk        ok, let's move onto core-dev
   10:33 Keybuk        Tonio_: ?
   10:33 Tonio_        yes
   10:33 Tonio_        I'm Anthony Mercatante, most of you know me as a kubuntu developper and motu
   10:34 Hobbsee       Tonio_'s going for core!  cool!
   10:34 Tonio_        Hobbsee: attempting at least
   10:34 Tonio_        Although I'm not very active as a motu, most of my work is currently done in the main section
   10:34 Tonio_        https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AnthonyMercatante
   10:34 Tonio_        here is my wikipage
   10:35 Tonio_        https://launchpad.net/people/tonio/+packages
   10:35 Tonio_        and the launchpad packages one
   10:36 Keybuk        ok, so what kinds of things would you like to be doing in main?
   10:36 Keybuk        further Kubuntu work?  Who has been sponsoring you so far?
   10:36 Tonio_        Keybuk: mostly Riddell of course
   10:36 Riddell       yep, lots of kubuntu-default-settings uploads from Tonio_ and a good number of others too
   10:36 Tonio_        I'm currently maintaining a bunch of main applications, like wlassistant, kmplayer, knetworkmanager, kaffeine...
   10:37 Tonio_        and yes, I'm very involved in the kde implementation, configuration and simplification
   10:37 Riddell       he's very competant, I can't remember the last time I had to correct something before uploading
   10:39 imbrandon     whoops
   === Tonio_ [n=tonio@tonio.planetemu.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Keybuk pipes hold music into the channel
   10:40 mjg59         Ah
   10:40 Keybuk        aga
   10:40 Tonio_        sorry, konversation crached...
   10:40 Keybuk        Tonio_: so what kinds of improvements would you like to make to Kubuntu?
   10:40 Keybuk        clearly you'll be fixing that bug? :p
   10:40 Tonio_        Keybuk: hope so :)
   10:40 Tonio_        well currently kubuntu misses a good multimedia infrastructure
   10:41 Hobbsee       (Tonio_: ouch.  daily build, or the one in the repos?)
   10:41 Tonio_        that should be changed in the future focussing on one application only
   10:41 Tonio_        there are also lots of things to be done to get a fully logic and wel implemented kde destktop
   10:42 Tonio_        kde is widely configurable, but requires lots of configuration to be done still
   10:42 Keybuk        would you favour kde using gstreamer, or something else?
   10:42 Tonio_        we need to focus on the wireless part too, since we don't currently have a wpa capable solution installed out of the box
   10:43 Tonio_        Keybuk: I would probably favour gstreamer, yes, because it is certainly the most promissing
   10:43 Tonio_        Keybuk: and afaik, it has great chances to be used with kde4
   10:43 Tonio_        so here are the most important things I would like to focus on in the next weeks
   10:44 Keybuk        *nods*, interesting
   10:44 Keybuk        Riddell: these are your packages, would you welcome Tonio_ into main?
   10:44 Riddell       Keybuk: very much so
   === RichJ [n=nixterna@ubuntu/member/nixternal] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:45 RichJ         @schedule chicago
   10:45 Ubugtu        Schedule for America/Chicago: Current meeting: Technical Board | 19 Jul 15:00: Edubuntu | 20 Jul 10:00: Ubuntu Development Team | 21 Jul 14:00: Ubuntu Marketing Team | 26 Jul 07:00: Edubuntu | 27 Jul 18:00: Ubuntu Development Team
   10:45 Keybuk        mjg59: any questions?
   10:47 mjg59         Tonio_: Do you think you can help get Kubuntu to the same level of polish and integration as Ubuntu?
   10:47 Tonio_        mjg59: I hope so, since it is clearly what I'm claiming for month :)
   10:47 Hobbsee       mjg59: only with a lot of work.
   10:47 Tonio_        mjg59: anyway, that will probably require more than just my contribution
   10:47 mjg59         Tonio_: On the bright side, I see you've been doing a lot of work on infrastructure that both Ubuntu and Kubuntu can use
   10:48 mjg59         My heartfelt thanks for that :)
   10:48 ogra          Tonio_, well, you have Hobbsee now :)
   10:48 imbrandon     but the kubuntu team is comming along nicely specialy with Tonio_
   10:48 Tonio_        mjg59: well, networkmanager and bluez-utils mostly
   10:48 mjg59         Tonio_: How closely do you work with upstream?
   10:48 imbrandon     and Hobbsee ;P
   10:48 Tonio_        mjg59: depends if there are or not respondive ;)
   10:49 mjg59         Heh
   10:49 mjg59         But you make an effort?
   10:49 Tonio_        I'm regularly in kontact with lots of them, and they most of the time include my patches
   10:49 mjg59         Excellent
   10:49 mjg59         Ok, I think I'm done
   10:49 ogra          in kontact ?
   10:49 mjg59         Keybuk: You?
   10:49 Tonio_        mjg59: I generally always try to get my patches and packages improvements upstream
   10:49 Keybuk        I'm done
   10:49 Tonio_        that's the goal
   10:49 mjg59         Votes?
   10:49 Hobbsee       Tonio_: when you misspell kontact and konversation, you certainly spend too much time working on kde :P
   10:50 ogra          yeah
   10:50 imbrandon     heh
   10:50 Keybuk        +1 from me
   10:50 mjg59         +1 from me for plainly being excellent (asuming what everyone tells me is true :p)
   10:50 ogra          thats what i thought too
   10:50 Tonio_        ;)
   10:50 Hobbsee       yay Tonio_!
   10:50 Toadstool     congrats Tonio_ :)
   10:50 ogra          congrats Tonio_
   10:50 ogra          !
   10:50 Hobbsee       mjg59: it's better not to think about if it's true or not, i'm sure :P
   10:50 Tonio_        thank you very much everybody !
   10:50 toma          nice day for kubuntu!
   10:50 Hobbsee       toma: very!
   10:50 Tonio_        toma: hehe
   10:51 imbrandon     very nice toma
   10:51 imbrandon     ;)
   === Hobbsee looks for something for toma to work on :P
   === toma ducks
   10:51 imbrandon     toma HIDE !!
   10:51 Keybuk        ok, last up is Linda
   10:52 Keybuk        err, I mean Steven
   10:52 StevenK       Hah
   10:52 imbrandon     heh
   10:52 StevenK       Hrm, Steven doesn't fire my nick hilight.
   10:52 ogra          lol
   10:52 Hobbsee       go StevenK!
   10:52 StevenK       I'm Steve Kowalik, Debian Developer since 2001, and an MOTU to boot.
   10:53 Hobbsee       (and the poor bugger who uploads a lot of my packages)
   10:53 StevenK       I hope to look at Edgy specs and help out with a few that interest me, specifically about-ubuntu, spoken-boot and a few others that escape me at the moment.
   10:54 imbrandon     and the poor guy that has given me alot of MOTU training ( along with many others )
   10:54 StevenK       I hope to do the same thing with main, offering to sponsor patches from people and upload them into main.
   10:54 StevenK       It'd be kinda nice to request a sync for Linda, too.
   10:55 StevenK       Um. I'd also say general merges for main, but the bulk of that will have to wait until Edgy+1
   10:55 mjg59         Ok
   10:55 mjg59         Have you got anything in main at the moment?
   10:56 StevenK       Linda, but it wasn't me who put her there.
   10:56 mjg59         So an obvious question is "What would you do with core-dev that you can't currently do"?
   10:56 StevenK       I have spent some spare time over the last few days looking over main bugs, but nothing really struck me as being easily patched.
   10:57 mjg59         You've suggested sponsoring other people
   === gnomefreak [n=ThunderS@ubuntu/member/gnomefreak] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   10:57 mjg59         Do you think that it's currently difficult to get stuff sponsored into main?
   10:58 StevenK       Yes, sponsoring other people, along with bug fixes, and helping out with work if people ask me.
   10:58 StevenK       I don't think it is, but many hands make light work, and also other people may not be around to build/test/upload.
   10:59 Hobbsee       (personally, i find the stuff in main hard to get uploaded, due to my timezone)
   10:59 mjg59         I guess I feel that it would be good to see more work with main first, but I don't know how Scott feels
   10:59 StevenK       Hobbsee: Like you can claim yourself being in the Australia/Sydney timezone.
   10:59 mjg59         Keybuk: ?
   11:00 Keybuk        I must admit that I feel the same, despite his track record in Debian
   11:00 Hobbsee       StevenK: i mostly can.  except for staying up till 2am each morning.
   11:00 Keybuk        we do things slightly differently in Ubuntu, and it would be good to see more example of his work in main first
   11:01 mjg59         StevenK: Would you be open to spending more time working with main in the Edgy cycle and then revisiting this when we come to Edgy+1?
   11:01 StevenK       Indeed.
   11:02 mjg59         I'm not concerned about you screwing things up, but it's nice to have evidence that you'll use the rights granted :)
   === StevenK nods.
   11:02 Hobbsee       Keybuk: pm?
   11:03 Keybuk        Hobbsee: it's not that pm here yet
   11:03 mjg59         Keybuk: Anything else?
   11:03 Keybuk        on StevenK, nothing from me
   11:03 Hobbsee       Keybuk: :P  i meant private message.
   11:03 Keybuk        lucas wanted to have a few moments
   11:03 lucas         yup, I wanted to discuss DCT
   11:04 lucas         since it was raised earlier
   11:04 lucas         I even have a few intro lines :
   11:04 mjg59         StevenK: Ok - sorry about that, but with luck we'll see you back here soon
   11:04 lucas         The Debian Collaboration Team (or DCT, http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DCT ) is an Ubuntu team aiming at improving collaboration between Ubuntu and Debian by tracking changes in Ubuntu's packages.
   11:04 lucas         It's not an automatic process like Scott's patches, but instead requires collaboration from *volunteer* Debian developers :
   11:04 lucas         - DCT team members agree to file bugs in the BTS for all relevant issues
   11:04 lucas         - the DD agrees to act promptly on those bugs
   11:04 lucas         The advantage is that we limit ourselves to DD who actually want to collaborate, and don't lose time sending patches to maintainers who killfile us.
   11:04 lucas         Questions:
   11:04 lucas         - What do you think ?
   11:04 lucas         - Ideas for improvement ?
   11:04 lucas         - Volunteers ? :)
   11:04 mjg59         lucas: It sounds like a good way of building trust
   11:05 mjg59         Would you need any technical resources that aren't currently available?
   11:05 lucas         I don't think so
   11:05 lucas         we'll need a tool to keep track of what has been reviewed
   11:06 lucas         but it will most likely be web-based, and web hosting is not a problem
   11:06 LaserJock     do you think its a good thing to focus down the people involved rather than try to improve the overall Debian-Ubuntu collaboration
   11:06 Keybuk        I'm a little confused ... you talk about DDs there?  What would be Ubuntu's contribution to the DCT?
   11:07 mjg59         lucas: Presumably you meant volunteer Ubuntu developers, rather than volunteer Debian developers?
   11:07 lucas         there are volunteers on both side :
   11:07 ogra          Keybuk, it has two sides ... both of them agree to collaborate ...
   11:07 lucas         volunteer ubuntu devs agree to work inside DCT (some ubuntu devs don't care about debian)
   11:08 Keybuk        how will patches/issues/etc. be judged to be relevant?
   11:08 Keybuk        one of the problems so far has been deciding whether a patch is worth submitting to Debian
   11:08 lucas         volunteer DDs agree to respond very fast to bug reports, so they are useful for ubuntu too
   11:08 mjg59         From a technical side of things, I don't see any issue
   11:09 lucas         the litmus test would be "things we changed that should be changed in debian too"
   11:09 Keybuk        lucas: a useful feature for you might be ... the patch mailer (that does the ubuntu-patches mailing list, and sends to the PTS) allows custom subscriptions
   11:09 Keybuk        so you can subscribe to lists of packages, etc.
   11:09 Keybuk        lucas: how about where we differ to Debian?  e.g. udev, or our use of /var/run, or our non-use of /emul, etc.
   11:10 lucas         I think the list-of-packages-management would probably be more complex than this, but there might be code to re-use
   11:10 lucas         well, it's of course not about pushing such decisions to debian
   11:11 lucas         one of the problem is to review patches and know which changes are relevant to debian, which requires good knowledge of both sides
   11:12 Keybuk        a good plan might be to draft up a description of what volunteers would need to do, and use ubuntu-devel to get early ones
   11:12 Keybuk        and once the thing is up and running, ubuntu-devel-announce to get more
   11:13 lucas         yup, that's what I started doing on the wiki page
   11:13 LaserJock     I'd be a bit worried though that it might send a message that Ubuntu people don't have to worry about upstream, "somebody'll take care of it"
   11:13 LaserJock     do you think that could become a problem?
   11:14 lucas         ideally, all ubuntu developers would understand that debian matters a lot, and that reducing divergence makes our life easier
   11:14 lucas         but it's clear that some ubuntu devs have never used debian, and don't really understand the relationship between ubuntu & debian
   11:15 lucas         (that's a different issue, and it was already raised during the debian/ubuntu discussion at debconf, I think)
   11:17 Keybuk        ok
   11:17 Keybuk        does anybody have any questions for lucas?
   11:18 lucas         :p
   11:18 mjg59         I think it sounds like a good plan
   11:19 Keybuk        agree
   11:19 Keybuk        lucas: good luck with it, if there's any technical resources you need, they can most likely be arranged
   11:19 lucas         ok
   11:20 Keybuk        any other business?
   11:20 Keybuk        adjourned then
   11:20 Keybuk        thanks everybody
   
</pre>
