{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
* The MythTV team has been rocking the MythTV world and is now blessed with official recognition.
* The PlanetUbuntuEditorialPolicy has been reviewed and discussed. It was decided that it's not yet ready. Mark, Corey and Matt will redo the document.
* The Swiss team has joined the ever growing list of official Lo``Co``Teams. Go Switzerland!

==== Members ====
* <nowiki>[[Txwikinger|Ralph Janke]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MicheleAngrisano|Michele Angrisano]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[BrianMurray|Brian Murray]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[EfrainValles|Efrain Valles]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[sacater|Sam Cater]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RafaelSfair|Rafael Sfair]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AlyssonNeto|Alysson Neto]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[WesleyStessens|Wesly Stessens]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pleia2|Elizabeth Bevilacqua]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Luigi_de_guzman|Luigi de Guzman]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
10:59	Seveas	ok, let's get started. Order in the room please
=== nixternal has to go learn how to be a programmer - GOOD LUCK to the candidates
11:00	Seveas	agenda is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda, first on the agenda is superm1 with the mythtv team
11:00	MikeB-	sabdfl_: don't see him, is he traveling today to LinuxTag
11:00	Seveas	(sriramadas is not here for derivative team)
11:00	dholbach	MikeB-: I though he'd travel tomorrow
11:00	nixternal	MikeB-: yes about Jono (read blog)
11:00	superm1	Okay, i'll get started then:
11:00	superm1	Hi, i'm Mario Limonciello and I'm one of the folks here representing the Ubuntu MythTV team.  We were formed roughly 8 months ago, unofficially. My teamates and I have been working to make MythTV on Ubuntu a very solid experience that is easy to use.  You can see our wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MythTVTeam
11:00	superm1	and some information about our upcoming Ubuntu remix, Mythbuntu at: http://www.mythbuntu.org.
11:00	spaceinvader	welp: :P
11:01	imbrandon	and I'm here on behalf of the MythTeam too
11:01	mdke	Seveas: does anyone know what the issue that is referred to in the link under the derivative topic is?
11:01	sacater	spaceinvader: please leave, this is not a good time
11:01	superm1	and Daviey and keescook too :)
=== keescook waves
11:01	ubuntu_demon	hey :)
11:01	Seveas	mdke, I don't and from the part of the discussion I saw last time, not many people do
11:01	Daviey	yep, i'm here
11:02	mdke	there is some reference to problems with Canonical
11:02	Seveas	I'll poke sriramadas for next meeting
11:02	mdke	sabdfl_: know anything?
11:02	crimsun	(I've also worked with superm1 from -mythtv)
11:02	mdke	Seveas: ok, we'll chase it up via email.
11:02	mdke	the mythtv team looks well organised and well supported to me
11:03	blizzzek	hi
11:03	dholbach	it looks quite well to me too, and I'm happy to see so many people in it
11:03	dholbach	how many of the mythbuntu changes go directly into Ubuntu?
11:03	superm1	we've also got several folks that regular the forums to troll and help posts
11:03	sabdfl_	mdke: problems in connection with?
11:03	superm1	so far everything but ubiquity
11:03	imbrandon	dholbach, 100%
11:03	dholbach	(I didn't see the splash screen package in Ubuntu yet, that's why I asked ;-))
11:04	juliux	hi all
11:04	dholbach	imbrandon: excellent
11:04	superm1	crimsun uploaded it a week or so ago
11:04	dholbach	ah ok
11:04	superm1	(the splash)
11:04	sabdfl_	superm1: i've had very good feedback from people about mythtv on ubuntu, thanks to your team's work
11:04	imbrandon	it needed a bit of work, but we're striving to do everytign in the archive
11:04	mdke	sabdfl_: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2007-April/001281.html is the thread referred to
11:04	Daviey	dholbach: were trying to get it in :)
11:04	crimsun	(yes)
11:04	Klaidas	@schedule Vilnius
11:04	ubotu	Schedule for Europe/Vilnius: Current meeting: Community Council | 30 May 15:00: Edubuntu | 30 May 23:00: Xubuntu Developers | 31 May 19:00: Ubuntu Development Team | 01 Jun 00:00: Kubuntu Developers | 05 Jun 22:00: Technical Board
11:04	dholbach	do you have close ties to the upstream folks? are there any in the team too?
11:04	Seveas	(remove noise during meeting)
11:05	mdke	thanks Seveas
11:05	superm1	sabdfl_, we've tried to follow as much input on the forums as possible with things that needed work for feisyt
11:05	Mithrandir	I've been unhappy with some of their packages when doing reviews of them; I haven't reviewed enough of them to know whether it's a problem with a couple of people who just haven't had enough training or if it's a systemic problem.  I suspect the former, in which case it's much easier to fix than in the latter case.
11:05	Mithrandir	I think it can be fixed by trying to pull them more into the normal workflow, though.
11:06	mdke	is there a process in place to deal with the problems Mithrandir mentions?
11:06	mdke	within the team, I mean
11:06	superm1	Well that was one of the big reasons we are running to be recognized here, we were looking to get a mailing list made
11:06	sabdfl_	mdke: oh, no further news from dfarning afaik, and i'm still not sure what he was referring to there
11:06	keescook	Mithrandir: I've been trying to help where I know how and to get other MOTU to comment on things I'm less familiar with.
11:06	superm1	we currently have IRC at #ubuntu-mythtv
11:06	imbrandon	mdke, yes myself and i know crimsun and keescook atleaste have been working on getting everythgin 100% upto standards packing wise
11:06	superm1	but not everyone is on at all times
11:06	dholbach	mdke, sabdfl_: I'll prod him again by mail.
11:07	mdke	sabdfl_: weird. ok We'll follow up with him by email maybe
11:07	crimsun	(I tend to be pretty rigorous/harsh in reviewing.)
11:07	mdke	superm1: a mailing list sounds like a very good idea.
11:07	Mithrandir	also, this was a couple of months back, so it might well have improved.
11:07	Daviey	mdke: We applied for it over two months ago - not sure what the holdup is.
11:07	superm1	Mithrandir, yes - i think i know which upload your referring too also.  putting some stuff into /home
11:07	superm1	and such
11:08	Seveas	Daviey, general too-much-work-ness in the admin department
11:08	Daviey	Seveas: heh :)
11:08	mdke	Daviey: we have a bit of a problem with mailing list creation at the moment; jono is supposedly working on it so hopefully you will have good news soon
11:08	sabdfl_	superm1: if you guys are committed to making your changes in the archive, then i see no problem with official recognition of the team, and also of your dedicated derivative
11:08	Daviey	mdke: that would be really good.  Where we work on so many different timezones - irc doesn't always work out
11:09	mdke	sure
11:09	superm1	sabdfl_, the only questionable change to commit back to archive will be the ubiquity - because its such a drastic patch that we are applying to it
11:09	mdke	perhaps use -motu for now, and poke jono regularly :)
11:09	sabdfl_	superm1: this is to make the system boot straight to myth, right?
11:09	Mithrandir	superm1: can't it be modularised or made conditional somehow?
11:09	superm1	mythbuntu will create a system that boots right into myth and configures myth
11:09	superm1	yes sabdfl_
11:10	superm1	Mithrandir, I was going to work with the ubiquity guys after we have our patch fully completed and see how feasible that is
11:10	superm1	but atm there are a few things yet for us to finish and determine how much needs changing
11:10	Seveas	superm1, isn't it possible to separate that from ubiquity so people can turn their existing ubuntu boxes into mythtv machines?
11:10	Seveas	and hook the separate program into ubiquity in your derivative
=== ScottK has been reviewing superm1's packages on #ubuntu-motu and they definitely seem committed to getting things into the archives and doing things correctly.
11:11	superm1	We have docs explaining how to do that right now, but no seperate program yet
11:11	imbrandon	Seveas, yes, thats also done quite easliy now with the currect meta packages
11:11	Seveas	imbrandon, excellent
11:11	sabdfl_	i guess there are two use cases: (1) the box is dedicated, and (2) you want to work on it, then turn it into a myth box, then work on it again
11:11	mdke	sounds good. The team clearly has some good peopl behind it and good communication, especially considering they don't have a mailing list yet
11:11	superm1	(http://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV)
11:11	Daviey	Seveas: We are trying to get everything to work from exisiting repo's - so you don't need the dedicated release
=== Seveas cheers for the team
11:11	mdke	+1 from me
11:11	sabdfl_	+1 from me, anyone else want to take a view?
11:11	Burgundavia	+1 from me
11:11	dholbach	I'm very happy with the team as it is, +1 from me too
11:11	MikeB-	+1 from me
11:12	mdke	nice
11:12	Seveas	5 out of 6, elmo care to cast a vote?
11:12	Seveas	or are you already hiding for the next subject? ;)
11:12	imbrandon	:)
11:12	elmo	+1
11:12	Daviey	woo
11:12	Seveas	excellent, moving on quickly to covr more
11:12	superm1	Yay, unanimous vote  :)
11:13	Seveas	Burgundavia, you're on (planet ubuntu editorial)
11:13	mdke	superm1: write to us if you don't get your list
11:13	Burgundavia	right
11:13	superm1	Okay mdke thanks
11:13	Burgundavia	we are considering the following spec: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PlanetUbuntuEditorialPolicy#preview
11:13	Burgundavia	the idea was mind, kicked up with the recent dell issue and brought again into the light with the \sh issue
11:14	Burgundavia	the primary idea behind the spec is to create 1) a palce for people to contact to get illegal crap removed from planet, including accidential breaches of embargo
11:14	Burgundavia	2) a clearly defined procedure for objectionable content
11:14	Burgundavia	mdke and myself have been working on the language over the past day
11:15	elmo	could we please tone down the 'censorship' language on there?
11:15	mdke	this afternoon I added some thoughts which I found in a previous discussion of these issues, by silbs, sabdfl and cjwatson; so it should have a reasonably cc-ed direction, I hope
11:15	elmo	I see it's been improved, but it's still all over the use cases
11:15	yann2	i am not particularly happy with the "Material is posted which (generally unintentionally) offends another community member."  :(
11:15	towsonu2003	2nd use case looks problematic
11:15	mdke	yann2: just to be clear, that is in the Rationale. If you read the spec, it doesn't actually ban such material, far from it
11:16	sabdfl_	by illegal, i take it you also mean content which causes legal problems for companies or individuals as well as stuff that is genuinely illegal?
11:16	towsonu2003	yann2, me neither, there is too much stuff that might offend at least one person
11:16	yann2	"Melanie is a north american conservative catholic feminist, and is _Extremely_ offended by a post from a west european boy"
11:16	Burgundavia	what should be very clear: we are not defining what should or should not be banned
11:16	yann2	(not related to melissa, but as example)
11:16	sabdfl_	just the process for addressing it
11:16	yann2	ok :)
11:16	mdke	yann2: I don't think you've read the spec very carefully. You've just got stuck at the beginning
11:16	sabdfl_	i think the spec could use a little work
11:16	mdke	but yeah, the use cases need work
11:16	yann2	mdke > i did read it :)
11:16	mdke	and the spec in general should have more consultation, I think. It has come onto the agenda rather quickly
11:16	sabdfl_	it basically says "it's ok for us to take some stuff off, go here -> to get that done if you think something should come off"
11:17	gnomefreak	a very good point was brought up on this in -women, where do we draw the line between offensive/inappoprate and ok to post.
11:17	ScottK	Since planet is just a mirror, what would be the point of removing information due to breaches of confidentiality?  Once something's on the internet, you can't really get it off.
11:17	Burgundavia	i brought it up for consulation. I full expect it to require more work
11:17	Burgundavia	ScottK: it is about best effort
11:17	yann2	in \sh comments, it was proposed to divide the planet in planet ubuntu and ubuntu universe, i would support this idea
11:17	mdke	ScottK: because of the wide readership
11:17	PriceChild	ScottK, but on planet it is representing Ubuntu.
11:17	sbalneav	You're going to have to be very clear and explicit about what you consider to be objectionable material that's not suitable for planet.  If you're not, your simply going to end up with arbitrary decisions being made for every case.
11:17	yann2	it would allow to be more laxist on the "universe" and maybe define stronger guidelines on the planet
11:18	Burgundavia	yann2: that is a seperate issue
11:18	sabdfl_	i don't think we should aim to please everyone
11:18	JanC	PriceChild: so hiding things that happen inside Ubuntu is good ?  :)
11:18	ScottK	OK. Joe posts information.  Jane whines and claims to be Joe's employer.  What's the process for verification?
11:18	PriceChild	JanC, Of course not.
11:18	sabdfl_	you need something of a robust sense of humour to survive on the net, in any event
11:18	towsonu2003	but wouldn't universe work like the Backyard in ubuntuforums.org - a way to burry stuff?
11:18	mdke	sabdfl_: +1
11:18	Burgundavia	indeed
11:18	mdke	sbalneav: I think the general approach is to leave it up to the individual member to decide what they consider suitable. For serious breaches of the coc, like with all mediums, we are here
11:18	JanC	sabdfl_: not only on the net
11:18	sabdfl_	the recent question from melissa is really interesting in what it raises
11:19	MikeB-	this is definate a case of Ubuntu growing pains
11:19	kalon33	JanC: sure, in the life too :p
11:19	ajmitch	mdke: some people have a *very* broad view of what's acceptable
11:19	elkbuntu	fyi, i am here, albeit half asleep still
11:19	mdke	ajmitch: I understand that, and people's different personalities are part of what makes planet interesting
11:19	JanC	it has been proposed to create both a "complete planet" and a "filtered planet"
11:20	ScottK	Who is the filter?
11:20	sabdfl_	why not make this doc nice and short, and say "stuff can be removed here, being subscribed is not an automatic right to have anythin you write published here"
11:20	Burgundavia	JanC: that gets into a kettle of fish I don't wnt to touch
11:20	imbrandon	who filters , based on what
11:20	mdke	ajmitch: fwiw, the previous complaints that sparked a discussion on the cc list were about a post dealing with politics that was found offensive
11:20	sabdfl_	then point to: canonical admins for emergencies, cc for social issues
11:20	JanC	if you don't like the filter, don't use it  :)
11:20	MikeB-	we need express to people that the Ubuntu community is worldwide, all nationalities, religions, age groups, etc...
11:20	mdke	sabdfl_: yeah, I think it will be better
11:20	Burgundavia	sabdfl_: that is pretty much what is there, in the implementation section
11:21	sabdfl_	then also, separately, we could have a set of guidelines that mas the CoC to the blogosphere
11:21	sabdfl_	just like we have it for IRC, Forums
=== ScottK says +1 to sabdfl_'s latest.
11:21	Burgundavia	what if we just nuked everything but the implementation section?
11:21	sabdfl_	i wouldn't mind having a non-CC team delegated to deal with social issues like this
11:21	Burgundavia	that deals with the annoying use cases and rationale, etc.
11:22	dholbach	I like sabdfl_'s idea. It should be a light-weight straight-forward process. Trying to point out what's allowed and what's not will always put you into problems. The less policy like and the more process like (for emergencies), the better.
11:22	kalon33	I like sabdfl_ idea too ;)
11:22	yann2	sso basically, remove everything that may pose problem?
11:22	towsonu2003	+1 Burgundavia's offer
11:22	ScottK	Legal issues and company confidential information are two separate issues and should be deconflated.
11:22	yann2	if it offend one person, delete it? bloggers won't like that
11:22	JanC	dholbach: true, but then you might get a bias by the judges
11:22	mdke	yann2: arghh
11:22	sabdfl_	we should equally have a piece that says "hey, don't be a wilting flower, if you disagree with something here, write up a smart, witty counterblog and woo the crowds to your view"
11:23	dholbach	JanC: which judges?
11:23	LaserJock	yann2: please read what is being said. that was never suggested
11:23	imbrandon	sabdfl_, +10
11:23	JanC	well, whoever "judges"
11:23	sabdfl_	is there an existing team which would be a good pre-CC stop for issues raised along these lines?
11:23	markvandenborre	couldn't we make a separation between "on topic" (ubuntu only)
11:23	Burgundavia	sabdfl_: just a touch confused. What you propose. Is that not just the implemenation section as written?
11:23	mdke	sabdfl_: well, jono
11:23	markvandenborre	and off topic (not ubuntu only)?
11:23	JanC	i just mean, the "judges" should be chosen carefully   :)
11:24	keescook	as long as we can avoid in-planet inter-blog flame wars, the "witty retort" can be nice.
11:24	elkbuntu	sabdfl_, and when it comes to the CoC being broken, one would risk counterbreaking it, which is not something that should be encouraged
11:24	ScottK	Burgundavia: The implementation section still conflates legal and company confidential in a way that is really problematic in my view.
11:24	sabdfl_	Burgundavia: roughly. let me have a stab at tightening it up
11:24	imbrandon	sabdfl_, a one man team, jono , heh
11:24	dholbach	JanC: to me the solution sounds like a process for emergencies, where things can be discussed - no active judging if or if not posts are suitable.
11:24	Burgundavia	ScottK: you are concerned about how it puts the two together?
11:24	JanC	well, someone will have to make decisions
11:24	mdke	elkbuntu: the problem is that the question of whether the CoC has been broken can be quite subjective.
11:24	ypsila	:-D
11:24	mdke	I think what will eventually come out of issues like this, and which I've seen raised elsewhere too is the proposal of making some amendments to the CoC which makes it a bit clearer what is actually regarded as disrespectful and inconsiderate. People are having more and more difficulty applying it in various contexts.
11:25	ScottK	Burgundavia: Yes as they are two completely separate issues in almost all cases.
11:25	ScottK	Breaking a company rule and breaking the law are different
11:25	markvandenborre	mdke, I think that idea is fundamentally flawed in a global context
11:25	imbrandon	AACS key
11:25	markvandenborre	when it comes to non-ubuntu things
11:25	yann2	+1 to mdke on the examples
11:25	mdke	markvandenborre: you mean the CoC is fundamentally flawed?
11:25	markvandenborre	no, not at all
11:26	ajmitch	keescook: though some people will certainly just pack up & move on if they're constantly seeing stuff that's blatantly offensive, rather than write up something about it
11:26	Burgundavia	ScottK: if you post something in contravention of an embargo, that is actually a legal issue
11:26	keescook	ajmitch: yup.
11:26	markvandenborre	I mean that in cultural background x, mentioning igasm is perfectly ok
11:26	ScottK	It's a contractual issue which is not exactly the same thing.
11:26	markvandenborre	in another one, it is not
11:27	mdke	markvandenborre: right, that's why the spec suggests reminding posters that the planet is a global community
11:27	markvandenborre	and the further you get from ubuntu as the binding factor, the less these
11:27	JanC	mdke: what's appropriate is different all over the world, who are we to cut it in stone?
11:27	Burgundavia	ScottK: they both need to be dealt with the same way, however
11:27	sabdfl_	anybody have a url for \sh's controversial post?
11:27	sabdfl_	i didn't see it
11:27	ajmitch	markvandenborre: right, how willing should we be to allow offending people then?
11:27	mdke	JanC: what we are defining is what is appropriate for global interaction, it's a common denominator.
11:28	ScottK	Burgundavia: I disagree.  I'll say again, Joe posts something.  Jane shows up and complains that Joe has published confidential information and is an employee of Jane's company.  How do you verify that?
11:28	ubuntugeek	Just curious, is there a way for planet to only pull from a certain section of a persons blog? Perhaps the user if they want to be listed on the planet creates an Ubuntu section and that is the only thing that is polled into the planet feed. Since posts are made on a persons personal blog you are sorta telling them what they can and can't talk about outside the community.. my 2cents.
11:28	mdke	ubuntugeek: sure, tags and filters work
11:28	keescook	is there anything that recommend people only post ubuntu-related things to planet?  I use an "ubuntu" tag in my blog, just so I have to choose to have a post be included.
11:28	gnomefreak	sabdfl_: ill have it in a minute
11:28	elkbuntu	sabdfl_, http://linux.blogweb.de/archives/335-Apple-is-not-amused,-but-you-should-be,-when-you-use-it.html
11:28	Burgundavia	providing your blogging software supports that
11:28	Seveas	sabdfl_, http://linux.blogweb.de/archives/335-Apple-is-not-amused,-but-you-should-be,-when-you-use-it.html  http://linux.blogweb.de/archives/337-My-Appologies-to-everybody-not-living-in-a-free-country.html
11:28	Mithrandir	sabdfl_: http://linux.blogweb.de/ ; http://linux.blogweb.de/archives/335-Apple-is-not-amused,-but-you-should-be,-when-you-use-it.html in particular
11:28	gnomefreak	or not\
11:28	JanC	mdke: I don't think that such a thing really exists
11:28	Seveas	lol :)
11:28	keescook	Burgundavia: hm, true
11:28	profoX`	ubuntugeek: that depends on the blog, but its possibnle with most blogs
11:28	imbrandon	http://linux.blogweb.de/archives/335-Apple-is-not-amused,-but-you-should-be,-when-you-use-it.html
11:28	gnomefreak	http://linux.blogweb.de/archives/335-Apple-is-not-amused%2C-but-you-should-be%2C-when-you-use-it.html
11:28	mdke	JanC: essentially, the CoC is about helping people work efficiently in a large and global community. It's not about dictating what is acceptable in difference cultures
11:28	gnomefreak	that would be it
11:29	welp	with gentoo, the blogs have a 'gentoo' category, which gets aggreated to planet.gentoo.org, everything else goes to planet.gentoo.org/universe
11:29	welp	just fyi
11:29	JanC	mdke: and it already does that IMHO
11:29	ubuntugeek	ProfoX': perhaps there should then be a requirement that your blog supports it.
=== welp stfu again
11:29	mdke	JanC: sure. But it might be able to do it better
11:29	sabdfl_	ubuntugeek: we can't verify every detail, but it's possible to make a reasoned judgement
11:29	LaserJock	ubuntugeek: that's certianlly possible, that's what I do. but in \sh's case I believe he termed that censorship
11:30	elkbuntu	LaserJock, from how i understood his arguing, yes
11:30	MikeB-	ubuntugeek: most blog software allow you to make a rss feed for a specific categories
11:30	mdke	whether to filter/tag posts to planet is a question of choice of the individual blogger
11:30	imbrandon	well not exactly, i intentionaly post everything from my blog to planet because planet in its true form is a "view into the lives of the people behind the project" not nessesarly "about" the project
11:30	markvandenborre	I would like to see the responsibility for what a planet visitor looks at with the user for as much as possible
11:30	ubuntugeek	sure but the downfall of that would surley be less then the downfall of someone posting something that aggravates multiple people.
11:30	imbrandon	well not exactly, i intentionaly post everything from my blog to planet because planet in its true form is a "view into the lives of the people behind the project" not nessesarly "about" the project
11:30	imbrandon	err
11:31	mdke	we need to focus this discussion a bit
11:31	Burgundavia	indeed
11:31	yann2	you will still need one person who is going to make the choices.
11:31	sabdfl_	interesting. i don't think that post is a problem. it's racy, sure, but not offensive in western terms
11:31	keescook	imbrandon: that's why I was wondering if there was a published "the planet should be for all blog entries" vs "please keep it project-oriented"
11:31	ubuntugeek	My point is, it would seem better to enforce a requirement policy and be upfront with it then to censor. The person should agree to that requirement, if they break it they loose their planet access.
11:31	sabdfl_	that's not to say that it won't cause some people a reasonably anxious moment or two
11:31	imbrandon	keescook, there is a small blurb on the right
11:31	mattva01	shouldn't there just be a big disclaimer  at the top?
11:32	keescook	I kinda like welp's described tag/tagless split
11:32	markvandenborre	We need a solution where on one hand posters know they can post what is appropriate in their cultural context, as long as it doesn't violate basic human rights civilised people can agree on.
11:32	markvandenborre	Viewers on the other hand should be able to easily avoid posts potentially inappropriate to them. This carries the risk of alienating part of the community.
11:32	Seveas	this is going on for too long -- maybe we should summarize the discussion, let corey amend the policy and give this a retry later? The agenda is rather long and we'v not come too far on this subject
11:32	JanC	sabdfl_:  "western" isn't the right word, it depends on the subculture you live in
11:32	sabdfl_	corey, would you also look into Tim O'Reilly's blog code of conduct?
11:32	sabdfl_	there might be things we can embrace there, as a translation of the CoC into blog-terms
11:32	Burgundavia	sabdfl_: it looks a touch overdone, but sure
11:32	mdke	markvandenborre: can you explain how the spec fails to do what you've described?
11:32	sabdfl_	i don't think we want to be that heavy handed
11:33	hypa7ia	\sh's comments are also worth considering in the light of his earlier comments about "sexy posters" on planet
11:33	hypa7ia	imo
11:33	sabdfl_	and i think we really only want to rule out deeply offensive and personal items
11:33	mdke	hypa7ia: hi!
11:33	JanC	hypa7ia: welcome (even if we don't agree on some things ;) )
11:33	sabdfl_	in general, things like \sh's items are best addressed with a few quiet words, rathe than a  lynching party
11:34	elkbuntu	sabdfl_, we tried. believe me, we really did try.
11:34	sabdfl_	elkbuntu: i might well have posted that link myself!
11:34	JanC	one problem is there had been previous issues with you a Hobbsee
11:34	sabdfl_	don't consider it a failure
11:34	elkbuntu	sabdfl_, i'm glad you didnt.
11:34	Burgundavia	for the record: http://blogging.wikia.com/wiki/BCC <-- drafts bloggesr code of conduct
11:34	sabdfl_	i'm more concerned with his style of response to you
11:34	sabdfl_	but i only have that second-hand
11:35	mdke	that's the real problem here; the discussion afterwards
11:35	JanC	sabdfl_: it's his style, he probably regrets some things by now  :)
11:35	markvandenborre	mdke, many posts that are controversial in some cultural backgrounds should be fine on the planet, but viewers from those cultural backgrounds should have an easy way to avoid them
11:35	ypsila	\sh actually is in Berlin to represent Kubuntu on the linuxtag
11:35	sabdfl_	right. we should remember this: we can't encode "getting along" in a set of rules
11:35	imbrandon	ok i must run , Seveas if sacater gets to membershiptoday he has my +1
11:35	towsonu2003	mdke, I'm not really sure what the real issue here...
11:35	sacater	imbrandon: thanks
11:36	elkbuntu	sabdfl_, im a person that is reasonably unfazeable, and while i personally was not offended by the post, due to my letter last week, i received a number of confidential communications concerned about it
11:36	sabdfl_	ok, can we conclude? this has been a good discussion. i'd like to move that:
11:36	hypa7ia	sabdfl_: but an established process for dispute resolution is worthwhile
11:36	Seveas	imbrandon, +1 means nothing without arguments
11:36	hypa7ia	and in this case there wasn't a process for planet
11:36	sabdfl_	=> i'll tighten up the current doc, on a KISS basis
11:36	imbrandon	ok i'll be back shortly and give them to you
11:36	sacater	imbrandon: ty
11:36	Seveas	excellent
11:36	sabdfl_	=> corey will work up something nice and guidelineish, with examples
11:36	mdke	ok
=== Burgundavia looks like a deer in headlights
11:37	sabdfl_	=> we'll deal with future matters arising on a case by case basis till a pattern emerges
11:37	mdke	Burgundavia: I'll help
11:37	MikeB-	Burgundavia: I can help also, what ever you need
11:38	dholbach	shall we move on to the SwissTeam?
11:38	tormod	apropos family-friendly content, see https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-clusterfuck :)
=== elkbuntu hugs Burgundavia
11:38	mdke	dholbach: yes
11:38	Seveas	dholbach, we should
11:38	mdke	*stgraber*
11:38	hypa7ia	i'd be glad to help too
11:38	stgraber	Good evening, I'm Stphane Graber and I'm here to represent the Ubuntu Swiss Team (Switzerland).
11:39	stgraber	The Ubuntu Swiss Team was created more than a year ago and now is mainly about organizing events like the OpenExpo (having stands at computer shows and exhibitions), organizing release parties and other coming-togethers.
11:39	Seveas	Burgundavia, mdke, sabdfl_: thanks for tackling it and good luck
11:39	stgraber	We also provide support with our mailing-list, IRC channel and our extensive list of local contact persons spread all over Switzerland.
11:39	stgraber	As we have 4 official languages here in Switzerland, we've chosen English as our exchange language and then people are mainly using language-specific forums for online-support and our contact list for local-support.
11:39	stgraber	Our wikipage is : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam
11:39	stgraber	and our Application : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/ApprovalApplication
11:39	Tribaal	+1
11:39	dholbach	I like the "Fondue for Human Beings" :-)
11:39	Tribaal	hehehe
11:39	stgraber	:)
=== tormod waves virtual Swiss flags
11:40	mdke	stgraber: I read the wiki pages - looks excellent to me. I was wondering how your relationship with other teams is; the question of overlapping languages is a really tricky one in the Ubuntu community at the moment
11:40	JanC	stgraber: sounds a bit like the Belgian team  :)
11:40	markvandenborre	mdke, it works fairly well in Belgium
11:40	stgraber	yes, but with 4 languages in our case :)
11:40	welp	swiss++
11:40	mdke	markvandenborre: yeah, I know
11:41	mdke	but we can learn more from each new team
11:41	tormod	we (SwissTeam) focus on local activities, not language-specific
11:41	markvandenborre	absolutely
11:41	stgraber	well, basically the team only do the on-site part of the support, which means meeting, release parties and exhibitions, the on-line activities are directed to the others communities like ubuntu-fr, ubuntu-it, ubuntu-de
11:41	JanC	tormod: so do we in Belgium
11:41	mdke	right
11:41	tormod	JanC: makes sense doesn't it :)
11:42	yann2	ubuntu-fr will be happy to work with you stgraber , if you need help on some points, ... ;)
11:42	dholbach	we could do with some more swiss MOTUs - do you know of any people getting involved with that part of the community?
11:42	mdke	stgraber: ditto ubuntu-it
11:42	ypsila	stgraber: you forgot kubuntu-de ;-)
11:42	tormod	many SwissTeam members are members in -de -fr groups etc
11:42	stgraber	and we also have some translators for those languages
11:43	stgraber	ypsila: oops, sorry, that's right -de has kubuntu specific website
11:43	tormod	yann2: if you need help from us... :)
11:43	stgraber	yann2, mdke : thx
11:43	ypsila	stgraber: not only!
11:44	Seveas	A quick note for all member candidates: If you did not yet join the ubuntumembers tam on launchpad, please do so *now*
11:44	stgraber	well, (x/ed/k)ubuntu-(it/de/fr).org should be better, isn't it ? :)
11:44	mdke	I don't want to sound like a total noob, but what is the frame of reference for approving loco teams? What are the relevant considerations?
11:44	Tribaal	ubuntu-ch members on launchpad?
11:45	Burgundavia	mdke: was about to ask that myself
11:45	Seveas	mdke, that they are actively promoting/supporting ubuntu -- which for the swiss team seems to be ok :)
11:45	ypsila	stgraber: :-) of course!
11:45	tormod	we also try to work closely and productively with all the general linux- and open-source associations here
11:45	mdke	the swiss team sounds pretty well organised, well led and well supported. I'm happy to give my support, but I don't actually know what standard I'm supposed to apply for "officialising" locoteams
=== ScottK has to go in a few moments. I'd like to speak in favor of membership for sacater when the time comes. He is clearly very enthusiastic and committed to Ubuntu. My only suggestion would actually be to dial back his enthusiasm a bit as his interest in helping sometimes exceeds his experience, but that will come in time. I think he would make a good addition to Ubuntu members.
11:46	stgraber	yep, we have quite a lot of LUGs here and I think we have some good links with them
11:46	Seveas	mdke, other considerations are thir plans for the future, cooperation with othr teams etc...
11:46	Seveas	jono/elkbuntu should b able to give the executiv summary :(
11:46	Seveas	err :)
11:46	juliux	or smurf ;)
11:46	sacater	ScottK: tyvm
11:46	elkbuntu	hmm?
11:46	Seveas	ScottK, noted
11:47	mdke	I think we should perhaps tie the standard required down sometime, maybe write some things down. But whatever it is, the swiss team clearly passes it :)
11:48	mdke	so +1
11:48	dholbach	does anybody have anymore questions? MikeB-, Burgundavia, sabdfl_, elmo?
11:48	Tribaal	Yeeeha
11:48	Burgundavia	+1 from me
11:48	elmo	+1
11:48	MikeB-	+1 from me, look like a great team
11:49	dholbach	+1 from me too, excellent work being done in the team
11:49	WaVeR	Ubuntu-ch is also for make some install party and to get more people using Ubuntu on Switzerland
11:49	WaVeR	+1 for me
11:50	Seveas	sabdfl_, ?
11:50	Seveas	sabdfl_, seems to be missing, but since we still have quorum, I suggest we move on
11:50	Seveas	he can catch up later and the agenda is massive
11:51	Seveas	txwikinger, is the first member candidate on the list who is here
11:51	mdke	ya
11:51	Seveas	txwikinger, please paste your introduction
11:51	stgraber	thx
11:51	tormod	hurray! thanks for your trust, from the Swiss ubuntites :)
11:51	txwikinger	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Txwikinger
11:52	sabdfl_	+1
11:52	Seveas	(all other member candidates: prepare a short introduction which you can paste in here when called)
11:52	mdke	good work swiss guys
11:52	sabdfl_	Burgundavia: have a look at the editorial policy now?
11:52	stgraber	sabdfl_: thx
11:52	Seveas	txwikinger, no introduction?
11:52	Burgundavia	sabdfl_: still looking through the blogging code of conduct
11:53	Tribaal	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Tribaal
11:53	Tribaal	oops
11:53	WaVeR	thanks all
11:53	txwikinger	Short introduction
11:53	txwikinger	I am working with uni/linux for a long time now
11:54	txwikinger	started to be with ubuntu for more than 2 years
11:54	txwikinger	Have a long time technical support background
11:54	txwikinger	hence have a lot of fun helping out with questions
11:54	Seveas	Are there people around who want to vouch for txwikinger ?
11:54	Seveas	<nixternal> and txwikinger is in that crowd as well for rocking the marketing scene and I am sure Corey can attest to it as well
11:54	neversfelde	yes
11:54	txwikinger	due to being bilingual  helping out with translating
11:55	neversfelde	txwikinger is a bridge to launchpad for the whole german *ubuntu community. He is among other things an important and very active member of kubuntu-de.org and alongside he translates most of the "weekly" uwn into german
11:55	Tribaal	yes
11:55	mdke	lots of UWN translations listed there, nice
11:55	ypsila	yes
11:55	Seveas	Tribaal, ypsila tell us why he should be a member then :)
11:55	blizzzek	yes
11:55	dholbach	txwikinger: I noticed massive contributions to the answers tracker - that's great.... on your wiki page you say you're looking into becoming a MOTU - did you approach any MOTUs about that already? is there anything you'd like to work on?
11:55	Tribaal	been pretty active, present and friendly. That qualifies in my book
11:56	ypsila	Seveas: he is competent, his translations are always perfect, except some mistakes in the german language :-)
11:56	ubuntu_demon	I'm going to sleep right now but I just want to +1  Brunellus (Luigi de Guzman) he has been on the ubuntuforums staff for a while and has been a good and able staff member.
11:56	Tribaal	plus being billingual is a big plus
11:56	txwikinger	dholbach: I have done a couple of simple fixes... like spellings and so on and submitted them to MOTUs
11:56	sabdfl_	txwikinger: regarding your school MIS, have you heard of SchoolTool?
11:56	txwikinger	dholbach: I am practicing a little packaging for myself atm
11:57	txwikinger	sabdfl_: Yes I have tested it before
11:57	sabdfl_	thanks ubuntu_demon
11:57	txwikinger	sabdfl_: I am trying to connect things like SchoolTool with the requirements of the DFeS and LEAs
11:57	sabdfl_	+1 from me for txwikinger on the grounds of plenty of community work over a period of some time
11:57	dholbach	txwikinger: I'm going to announce the ubuntu-motu-mentors mailing list quite soon, it'd be nice to see if that'd help you get going. Let me know how becoming a MOTU works out for you.
11:58	txwikinger	dholbach: Thanks I would be very interested
11:58	dholbach	+1 from me too
11:58	elmo	+1
11:58	MikeB-	+1 for me
11:58	dholbach	txwikinger: thank you :)
11:58	mdke	yes, +1 from me too; lots of nice contribution over what looks like a long period
11:58	Burgundavia	+1 from me
11:58	Seveas	Burgundavia, mdke ?
11:58	MikeB-	AFK for a couple of minutes, need to send a fax ASAP
11:59	Seveas	ok, /me too impatient :)
11:59	Seveas	6 out of 6, excellent!
11:59	Burgundavia	now I just need to suck txwikinger into editing the english UWN...
11:59	Seveas	Welcome txwikinger
=== ypsila waves the big handkerchief over to Great Britain for txwikinger
11:59	Seveas	fernando, you're up
11:59	txwikinger	Thanks a lot everybody
11:59	Tribaal	*claps for tx*
11:59	ypsila	Burgundavia: very good idea!
11:59	welp	txwikinger's a brit?
11:59	txwikinger	welp: I am German but live in the UK
11:59	fernando	My name is Fernando Ribeiro. I'm living in brasilia (Brazil). I'm working as a consultant in governmental sites in my country. I have already patched the command line options to use optparser python module, other little patchs, same bug fixes and testing. I'm trying to be a motu (dholbach is my mentor). I have already build mrbayers, jadetex and music-applet. Working in libgnomedb3 and mergeant packages. =)
11:59	ypsila	welp: no! he is geman! but he lives inuk
12:00	welp	mmm, good enough, i suppose ;)
12:00	ypsila	welp: good? are you kidding?
12:00	mdke	fernando: how long have you been involved in Ubuntu?
12:01	Burgundavia	fernando: link us up with a wiki page?
12:01	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FernandoRibeiroSilva
12:01	Seveas	Burgundavia, it's on the CC agenda page :)
12:01	Burgundavia	Seveas: that is a few tabs and many conversations over
12:02	fernando	mdke: since dapper how user, in LP +/- 6 months
12:02	Seveas	Burgundavia, install the 'Permanent tab' extension for firefox, it helps in these cases :)
12:02	fernando	dholbach: thanks
12:02	cypherbios	I someone ask me, I think fernando would be a good addition to ubuntumembers to works in bug triage and packaging related stuffs
12:03	mdke	fernando: so you've been doing bug work already for 6 months?
12:03	Seveas	mdke, his karma seems not to suggest that
12:04	Seveas	Besides cypherbios, is there anyone else who want to cheer for fernando?
=== OgMaciel hasn't met Fernando :/
12:04	dholbach	I think fernando's QA efforts were focussed on improving bughelper
12:04	dholbach	I added my testimonials on his wiki page
12:05	mdke	I'm not criticising at all, it's a good wiki page and I think the contributions are really good. i just want to get a feel for the period of participation
12:05	fernando	mdke: no very active to bug work this last 4 months to marriage preparatives
12:05	mdke	yeah, I know that one
12:05	dholbach	mdke: I wasn't suggesting that you were. :-)
12:05	mdke	dholbach: sure, I just wanted to make that clear anyway
12:07	sabdfl_	fernando: it's great to have your participation
12:07	sabdfl_	reading your wiki page i can see that you definitely have made an effort to understand ubuntu, and to contribute
12:07	fernando	sabdfl_: thank you
12:08	sabdfl_	i think that membership is on the cards, but i for one think it would be worth waiting a while
12:08	sabdfl_	till there's a clearer track record
12:08	sabdfl_	fair enough?
12:08	OgMaciel	fernando: you should meet the other Brazilians too  ;)
12:08	fernando	sabdfl_: no problem
12:08	mdke	I'm with sabdfl_
12:08	mdke	fernando - stick to dholbach, and you can't go wrong :)
12:08	Seveas	fernando, just pester dholbach with more patches :)
12:09	sabdfl_	ok, so keep at it, and we'll see you in a couple of months OK?
12:09	fernando	sabdfl_: right, thank you by attention
12:09	dholbach	with the speed fernando's working on packages I think it won't take that long
12:09	mdke	nice work fernando, see you soon :)
12:10	Seveas	dholbach, excellent
12:10	Seveas	DarkSun88, you're up next
12:10	DarkSun88	Ok
12:10	DarkSun88	Hi, my name is Michele Angrisano. (Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MicheleAngrisano | Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~micheleangrisano). I'm a 18 year old boy living in Naples (Italy). I started using Ubuntu Breezy from March 2006. I'm an active member of Italian Community where I try to help new users to solve their issues.
12:10	mdke	I have a testimonial for DarkSun88
12:10	sabdfl_	hey DarkSun88. where would you say you are making the biggest contribution?
=== mdke pastes
12:10	mdke	22:10:56 <bluekuja> Unfortunately this evening, I wont partecipate to the CC meeting so long to sponsor Michele directly, so I would like to give this cheer to mdke that will be able to comunicate it to CC's members during Michele's turn. He's doing a GREAT job in the italian community providing support in every possible form: irc, forums, wiki pages and translations becoming a reference point for anyone who needs help in our loco-team. I've got the
12:11	imbrandon	mdke, you cut off at "i've got the ....."
12:11	DarkSun88	Thanks mdke
12:11	JanC	no, the server did  ;)
12:11	mdke	... 22:10:56 <bluekuja> Unfortunately this evening, I wont partecipate to the CC meeting so long to sponsor Michele directly, so I would like to give this cheer to mdke that will be able to comunicate it to CC's members during Michele's turn. He's doing a GREAT job in the italian community providing support in every possible form: irc, forums, wiki pages and translations becoming a reference point for anyone who needs help in our loco-team. I've got
12:11	mdke	damn
12:12	JanC	max. line length exeeded
12:12	welp	it got cut off :(
12:12	mdke	[...]  I've got the possibility to work with him on some packaging activities related to merging/patching fields too, and I think he will keep doing such a good work in  the future! Thanks and good luck Michele!
12:12	DktrKranz	I would like to cheer Michele too.
12:12	DktrKranz	He's very active in Italian Community, especially in documentation and support to other users.
12:12	DktrKranz	He started to work with MOTUs too, he did a great job by smashing some PHP 4 unmetdeps bug
12:12	welp	right folks, i'm off to bed... Seveas, don't forget the stuff i said about sacater ;)
12:12	welp	gnight all.
12:12	DktrKranz	Feisty is a better place thanks to his work :)
12:12	mdke	I also can big him up, I've worked with him in the -it community and he is a good Ubuntero; we made him an irc op and he is doing good work on documentation with translations. He is patient and has a good attitude to open source, he doesn't get discouraged
12:12	sacater	bye welp
12:13	Burgundavia	+1 from me, given three strong recommendations and a pretty good track record of work
12:13	Seveas	mdke, I assume that's also a +1 from you :)
12:13	mdke	yeah
12:13	Seveas	looking very good
12:14	mdke	we need more italian members :D
12:14	Seveas	hehe
12:14	MikeB-	+1 from me, great work
12:14	DktrKranz	+1 :P
12:14	sabdfl_	+1 from me too
12:14	DarkSun88	I'm very interested to join MOTU one day
12:14	DarkSun88	:)
=== welp prefers gentoo's german conspiracy *hides*
12:14	Seveas	elmo, ?
12:14	dholbach	DarkSun88: do you have any plans for MOTU? anything you'd like to work on?
12:14	elmo	sorry, just catching up, 2 secs
12:14	Seveas	ok
12:14	sacater	welp: sleep
12:15	elmo	+1
12:15	Seveas	xcellent
12:15	dholbach	+1 from me too
12:15	DarkSun88	dholbach: Merge and Patch
12:15	DarkSun88	:)
12:15	DarkSun88	dholbach: I've just started working on packaging stuff, developing mostly merge and syncs packages
12:15	Seveas	welcome aboard DarkSun88 !
12:15	Seveas	bdmurray, is next
12:15	dholbach	DarkSun88: great - thanks a lot
12:15	mdke	I'm going to duck out soon
12:15	bdmurray	Hello!  I work for Canonical as a Quality Assurance Engineer. My areas of responsibility include managing the Ubuntu QA team, keeping an eye out for important bugs and creating methods for triaging and reporting bugs more effectively. As such I've triaged more than a thousand bugs (my best lowball guess).  My wiki page is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BrianMurray .
12:16	DarkSun88	Thanks :D
12:16	DarkSun88	DktrKranz: Thanks a lot
12:16	DarkSun88	mdke: Thank
12:16	DarkSun88	:D
12:16	keescook	i'm here to cheer bdmurray on; he's been doing great work, and is a very quick learner.
12:16	Seveas	bdmurray, I'm curious, when did you start bugwork? I stopped doing it months ago and got out of touch
12:16	mdke	I've been seriously impressed with the way that bdmurray slotted into the community quickly and smoothly
12:16	bdmurray	Seveas: mid December
12:17	Burgundavia	I can echo mdke's words
12:17	mdke	the guy rocks
12:17	Seveas	He's a lousy poker player though ;)
12:17	ajmitch	he's also been very encouraging of other community members doing bug work
12:17	mdke	oh, hang on then
12:17	Mithrandir	bdmurray has done a fantastic job on the 7.04 release and it would have been significantly worse if it wasn't for his efforts.
12:17	ajmitch	Seveas: can you hold that against him though?
12:17	Seveas	ajmitch, not really
=== mdke rubs out his +1 on grounds of poker
12:18	elmo	+1
12:18	Seveas	one down, 5 to go
12:18	mdke	me too
12:18	dholbach	having worked with bdmurray directly, +1 from me too
12:18	MikeB-	+1
12:18	mdke	pleasure to have you with us bdmurray
12:18	bdmurray	thanks everyone
12:18	Seveas	sabdfl_, Burgundavia ?
12:18	Burgundavia	+1 from me
12:19	imbrandon	forget poker , how about mao
12:19	mdke	ok, I'm off. Apologies to other candidates
12:20	Seveas	effie_jayx, you're up next, please paste your introduction whilst we wait for sabdfl_ to return
12:20	Seveas	by mdke!
12:20	keescook	\o/
12:20	kalon33	bye mdke !
12:20	effie_jayx	My Name is efrain Valles, I am sharing the Ubuntu LoCo team Contact in ubuntu-ve (Venezuelan Team) duties with Rolando Blanco. I am a member of a Local Lug (VELUG-MCBO) I am currently running a LUG at my University and I promote the use of ubuntu giving talks and much rencently I have started going out and putting together events to foster the use of ubuntu. I am also a OP at #ubuntu-ve. My day job I am an EFL (English as a Foreign Language) te
12:20	OgMaciel	good luck effie_jayx :)
12:20	effie_jayx	acher and I am hopong I can bridge my to Passions one day. I am a student of Computer Engineering. and Love programming. my wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EfrainValles.
12:20	Seveas	We still have quorum, with the other 5 (so I hope sabdfl actually returns)
12:20	Seveas	<nixternal> effie_jayx rocks out a lot of marketing stuff and does way more than I do with Marketing
12:21	elkbuntu	Efrain definatly gets my vote. He's enthusiastic, capable and most of all, he's an excellent team player. He is one of the main reasons the venezuelan LoCo rocks as much as they do.
12:22	effie_jayx	elkbuntu,  :)
12:22	dholbach	effie_jayx: you want to become a MOTU: did you get in touch with any MOTUs already? is there anything you'd like to work on specifically?
12:22	effie_jayx	dholbach,  I have tried... have started doing some bug triaging... but that was probably a month ago
12:23	Burgundavia	effie_jayx: why do you say you translating outside the official teams?
12:23	effie_jayx	Burgundavia,  I just wanted to say I make suggestions for the team
12:23	Burgundavia	right
12:23	effie_jayx	Burgundavia,  I am not an approved translator... I did join the team
12:23	effie_jayx	but the approval is hard :S
12:23	Burgundavia	ahh
12:23	JanC	effie_jayx: you asked that question about sponsoring by companies in the locoteams channel ?
12:24	effie_jayx	JanC,  yes I did. I just wanted to gt a wider scope on sponsorship.
12:24	dholbach	effie_jayx: it'd be nice to have you join the team - please let me know how that goes
12:24	JanC	right, so I know you thought about it carefully and asked other people for their opinion  :)
12:25	elkbuntu	back in december, effie_jayx almost single-handedly reunited the venezuelan team with the rest of the ubuntu community
12:25	effie_jayx	JanC,  I did... when in doubt consult others...
=== WRATHCHILD cheers up effie_jayx !!!
12:25	effie_jayx	elkbuntu,  it was your inspirational talk :D
12:26	elkbuntu	:)
12:26	effie_jayx	I became very involved in the community stuff because of UbuntuOpen Week
12:26	Seveas	elkbuntu, ftw :)
12:27	elkbuntu	Seveas, effie_jayx ftw ;)
12:27	Seveas	both
12:27	Seveas	so, why are there no +1's yet? :)
12:27	Burgundavia	+1 from me
12:28	sabdfl_	+1 from me on effie_jayx
12:28	MikeB-	+1 here
12:28	sabdfl_	excellent community work
12:28	elmo	+1
12:28	Seveas	sabdfl_, and bdmurray ?
12:28	dholbach	+1 from me too, hope to see you as an approved translator and motu soon :)
12:28	effie_jayx	dholbach,  you bet :D
12:28	Seveas	welcome aboard effie_jayx !
12:29	OgMaciel	congrats effie_jayx
12:29	effie_jayx	:D
12:29	WRATHCHILD	GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOODDDDDDDD
12:29	effie_jayx	thanks you all
12:29	Seveas	sacater, you're up
12:29	sacater	Hi, my name is Sam Cater, Im 14 years old and from the UK. Ive been
12:29	sacater	using Ubuntu for about a year now.
12:29	sacater	I mostly do Launchpad Q+A and help in IRC when I can, I can also do
12:29	sacater	basic packaging and bug work.
12:29	sacater	Quick Links:
12:29	sacater	Launchpad: http://launchpad.net/~sacater
12:29	sacater	Karma: http://launchpad.net/~sacater/+karma
12:29	sacater	Answers History: http://answers.launchpad.net/~sacater
12:29	sacater	Wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/sacater
12:29	sacater	Seveas: dont forget to paste what welp said
12:29	Seveas	* ScottK has to go in a few moments.  I'd like to speak in favor of membership for sacater when the time comes.  He is clearly very enthusiastic and committed to Ubuntu.  My only suggestion would actually be to dial back his enthusiasm a bit as his interest in helping sometimes exceeds his experience, but that will come in time.  I think he would make a good addition to Ubuntu members.
12:29	Seveas	<welp> (as i'm sure you can tell from my hostmask, i'm a gentoo developer). i was the one who introduced him to linux, and i'm always pleasantly surprised at how much he can learn in a short amount of time... he's a good guy.
12:29	Seveas	don't worry sacater :)
12:30	sacater	Seveas: theres more from welp
12:30	sacater	oh
12:30	sacater	wait
12:30	sacater	scratch that :P
12:30	Seveas	:)
12:30	sacater	carry on :D
12:30	imbrandon	I also would like to vouch for sacater he is a quick study in -motu and often is eager to help point people in the right direction
12:30	JanC	sacater: you mean where he said you should get some sleep?  :P
12:30	Burgundavia	ok, now I feel old
12:30	sacater	welp:  well, i dunno what he does in ubuntuland, all i can really say is that he's a fast learner, really
12:31	sacater	             willing, knows how to look for information, that kinda stuff :)
12:31	Seveas	Burgundavia, he's not just younger, he also seems to have an infinte amount of energy :)
12:31	sacater	JanC: i havnt slept in 38 hours
12:31	sacater	:P
12:31	sacater	i have proof but thats for another time :P
=== elkbuntu hands Burgundavia a walking stick
12:31	imbrandon	Burgundavia, haha me 3
12:31	JanC	sacater: sleep is good for the quality of your work
12:32	sacater	JanC: :D
12:32	JanC	sacater: i'm serious
12:32	AndyP	not to mention your health :)
12:32	sacater	JanC: like Seveas said, I have plenty of health
12:32	sacater	energy*
12:32	sabdfl_	sacater, i've heard good things about your contributions
12:32	sacater	dont worry, im sleeping properly tonight
12:32	sacater	sabdfl_: :D
12:32	sabdfl_	what is it that you think you bring to Ubuntu, and what is it that you think Ubuntu can bring to others?
12:33	sacater	I bring help to those who need or request it, and ubuntu brings friendship and community to others
12:34	sacater	pochu: vouch me please
12:34	sacater	pochu: membership application is right now :o
=== sacater nods
12:35	dholbach	sacater: impressive work on the answers tracker - you're involved in the cubuntu team (I didn't know it even exists), how's work going on there?
12:35	sacater	dholbach: i havnt noticed that much activity personally, but yes, its a command-line deriritive
12:35	sacater	hope I spelt that right
12:35	Burgundavia	derivative, actually, but we will forgive you for it :)
12:36	pochu	I can confirm sacater has been helping new users, and triaging some bugs :)
12:36	cypherbios	:)
12:36	sacater	whoot!
12:36	Burgundavia	impressive karma
12:36	sacater	thanks
12:36	Burgundavia	LaserJock: I notice he mentions you on his wiki page
12:37	elmo	hmm, sacater is this you're second time around?
12:37	sacater	yes
12:37	sacater	first time I was told to give it a month or 2 more
12:37	sacater	to prove i wasnt grab and run
12:38	sacater	'get the membership and do nothing'
12:38	elmo	heh - when was that?
12:38	sacater	er
12:38	elmo	(roughly)
12:38	sacater	about a month and a half back
12:38	Seveas	yup
12:39	Seveas	april 17
12:39	sabdfl_	+1 from me on sacater
12:39	Seveas	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda?action=recall&rev=800
12:39	elmo	yeah, +1 - thanks for coming back :)
12:39	sacater	sabdfl_: thanks
12:39	Burgundavia	+1 from me
12:39	sacater	elmo: thanks
12:39	sacater	Burgundavia: thanks
12:39	sacater	:D
12:40	dholbach	+1 from me too
12:40	Seveas	MikeB- ?
12:40	sacater	dholbach: :D
12:40	MikeB-	+1 here, and get off my lawn:)
12:40	Seveas	hehe
12:40	Burgundavia	get 'm young, my mother always said :)
12:40	sacater	gah
12:40	Seveas	excellent work, welcome sacater !
12:40	sacater	WHOOT!
12:40	Seveas	sfair, you're next
12:40	AndyP	sacater: congrats
12:40	sfair	so, let's go. My name is Rafael Sfair and I'm one of the administrators of the Ubuntu Brazilian Documentation team.
12:40	sacater	AndyP: ty
12:40	sfair	Most of my work is helping to organize the team and creating new documentation.
12:40	sfair	You can find a list of some contribuitions in my wikipage (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RafaelSfair) and my LP page (https://launchpad.net/~sfair), and some contributions maybe can't be directly measured :)
12:42	OgMaciel	my testimonial pretty much says everything I wanted to say in support for sfair
12:42	Seveas	I'm impressed with sfairs wikipage, good work!
12:42	sfair	thanks to cypherbios that helped me :)
12:42	cypherbios	I gave my testimonial in this wikipage, but here is a bit more:
12:42	cypherbios	Sfair is one of the greatest contributors of the Ubuntu-BR community. Hi works hard on our documentation team (ubuntu-br-doc) and is also a Official translator for pt_BR. Always helps people who wants to contribute pointing them to the right path, if there's someone who I support would be sfair (as well  n3t0 too ;) ). His advocate in the Ubuntu Brazilian community is something amazing to see. I completely agree and support sfair's m
12:42	cypherbios	embership.
12:44	Burgundavia	I see some solid contributions and good testimonials
12:44	sabdfl_	sfair: we love physicists round here :-)
12:44	sabdfl_	+1 from me on the back of strong recommendations from team-BR
12:45	sfair	sabdfl_: are there more?? im not th only one? im so happy! :D
12:45	cypherbios	a very very geeky guy, indeed !
12:45	Burgundavia	+1 from me
12:45	sabdfl_	sfair: would you see if you can get in touch with the guys who build Scientific Linux?
12:45	sabdfl_	i think they are from Fermilab
12:45	MikeB-	+1 here
12:45	sabdfl_	i'd like to meet them
12:45	sabdfl_	see if they would do a version based on Ubuntu too
12:45	sfair	sabdfl_: it's one of my goals...
12:45	elmo	+1
12:45	dholbach	+1 from me too
12:46	sfair	sabdfl_: it wuld be amazing
12:46	sfair	*would
12:46	Seveas	That's +5, welcome aboard sfair!
12:46	sfair	thanks :)
12:46	cypherbios	:D
12:46	Seveas	n3t0, you're up now
12:46	cypherbios	congrats sfair!!
12:46	OgMaciel	sfair does all of his research on Ubuntu, isn't that right sfair?
12:46	sfair	OgMaciel: yes... all my work
12:46	n3t0	My name is Alysson Neto and I'm  one of the administrators of the Brazilian Ubuntu Forum, also I'm a member of the Ubuntu Brazilian Doc Team
12:46	n3t0	where I have the function to find material tu put in the wiki. You can find a list of some contribuitions in wiki wikipage (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlyssonNeto) and my LP page (https://launchpad.net/~alysson-neto)
12:46	kalon33	congrats sfair
12:47	OgMaciel	n3t0: could you paste some stats about the volume (network) traffic the forum currently generates?
12:48	n3t0	11819 members
12:48	Burgundavia	I might add: I love the recommendations stuff the Brazillian people are putting on their pages
12:48	n3t0	108080 posts
12:48	Burgundavia	it makes it a lot easier to make decisions
12:48	n3t0	19258 topics
12:48	Burgundavia	other loco teams might want to take note
12:48	cypherbios	Burgundavia: thanks, we do our best in all :)
12:49	FaBMak	n3t0 is a co-worker and a friend in Ubuntu-BR Forum, together we do improvements and support it. I can say that he really like Ubuntu and our community.
12:49	OgMaciel	the Brazilian Forum (and other portuguese languages)  has a rock solid team of administrators/moderators and n3t0 is doing an amazing job with the limited support they have
12:49	cypherbios	n3t0 is one of the guys responsible to keep our *huge* ubuntu forum for portuguese speakers (include people from brazil, portugal and many others countries who speaks PT). His works is awesome in the forum administration, such as posting moderation as well system administration related stuff. I agree and support his membership.
12:49	Seveas	impressive, how many brazilian ubuntu members do we have now?
12:49	sfair	and n3t0 in and important link betweek the ubuntu-br-doc and forum
12:49	OgMaciel	Seveas: approx. 15?
12:49	sabdfl_	hmm... i wonder if we should not have a team in .BR where we delegate membership for local advocacy, translation, infrastructure work
12:49	cypherbios	Seveas: 15
12:50	Seveas	OgMaciel, I thought there would be more, but 15 already is a lot :)
12:50	OgMaciel	sabdfl_: we've been thinking along the same lines here too
12:50	cypherbios	most likely in the next meeting Ubuntu-BR LoCo will be around here ;)
12:50	OgMaciel	Seveas: we prefer that our users spend some time doing work before we point them to the CC
12:51	Seveas	are we ready to vote or are there still questions?
12:51	Burgundavia	not from me
12:52	sabdfl_	+1 from me on the back of forums admin work
12:52	Burgundavia	+1 to the Brazillian horde^WWW n3t0
12:52	dholbach	I'm happy with n3t0, +1 from me
12:52	Seveas	elmo, MikeB- ?
12:52	MikeB-	+1 here
12:52	elmo	+1
12:53	Seveas	woohoo
12:53	OgMaciel	congrats n3t0
12:53	Seveas	welcome n3t0
12:53	OgMaciel	:)
12:53	Seveas	yarddog, you're up
12:53	cypherbios	n3t0: :)
12:53	n3t0	thanks a lot
12:53	FaBMak	congrats n3t0
12:53	tritium	Seveas: I don't believe yarddog was able to attend
12:53	Seveas	his idle time seems to indicate that
12:53	Seveas	profoX`, then you're up
12:53	profoX`	euhm okay :)
12:53	profoX`	Good night everyone (or possibly evening for some of you). I am Wesley Stessens (profoX) and I became a very active Ubuntu user and supporter in the last few years. I am very active in the NL and BE locoteams. I help to maintain the Dutch website and forum. I translate USN's to Dutch. I try to get involved with the rest of the community as much as I can.. Occasionally I travel far to be able to represent Ubuntu in Belgium and The
12:53	profoX`	Netherlands. But I also try to do other things. I am chipping in everywhere I can. Marketing (ubuntu shirts for BE, ubuntu-nl magazine), Support (forums, IRC), Moderation (website, forums), Advocacy (everywhere), Programming, Packaging... You can read the wikipage for a more thorough description of all my activities in (and related to) Ubuntu; https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WesleyStessens
12:54	tritium	Seveas: I came on his behalf
12:54	dholbach	Seveas: didn't he mail and said that he can't make it, and tritium would speak for him?
12:54	Seveas	dholbach, maybe he mailed to community-council@, I don't get that mail
12:54	dholbach	Seveas: he CCed you :-)
12:54	Seveas	besides, we've never done 'speaking on behalf' and I don't see a rason to make an exception
12:55	dholbach	right, ok
12:55	dholbach	that's fine with me
12:55	tritium	I'll pass that along to him.
12:55	dholbach	thanks tritium
12:55	tritium	Thanks, dholbach.
12:55	Seveas	dholbach, odd, I don't see mail from him
12:56	Burgundavia	Seveas: I can confirm that you were cc'ed
12:56	tritium	Was he given any form of reply?
=== tritium was not copied on anything
12:56	Burgundavia	not that I see
12:56	Seveas	Burgundavia, can you pm me the from address? I'll grep through amavis' quarantine
12:57	dholbach	ahhhh dennis@ubuntu.com vs seveas@ubuntu.com
12:57	Seveas	dholbach, heh
12:57	Seveas	indeed seveas@ does not exist, although some people seem to think it does :)
12:57	Burgundavia	be nice if LP could do aliases liek that
12:57	Seveas	anyway, back to the subject of profoX`
12:57	Burgundavia	sabdfl_: ^
12:58	Seveas	I want to cheer for him, he's doing massive amountsof work on the dutch forums, and other parts of the dutch locoteam
12:58	JanC	I've seen profoX` being active on the ubuntu-nl forums & IRC too
12:58	AndyP	good work on the wiki page, impressive stuff
12:58	elmo	+1
=== ablomen chears for profoX` too
12:58	ablomen	*cheers
12:58	Burgundavia	+1 based on that
12:59	dholbach	+1 from me too
12:59	MikeB-	+1
12:59	JanC	and he has a nice blog in Dutch that explains things in a readable way
12:59	JanC	:)
12:59	dholbach	with that, I have too leave now
12:59	Seveas	dholbach, ok, goodnight!
12:59	dholbach	have a nice evening everybody and see you tomorrow
12:59	sabdfl_	awesome wiki page
12:59	sabdfl_	+1 from me!
12:59	Seveas	nice
12:59	Seveas	good job profoX` !
12:59	kalon33	good night dholbach
12:59	sabdfl_	night dholbach
12:59	profoX`	yea.. I did my homework :)
12:59	Burgundavia	do we still have quorum?
01:00	Seveas	And this unfortunately ends todays meting as we now no longer have quorum :(
01:00	kalon33	I have to mail you about telepathy stuff soon...
01:00	sabdfl_	for members, yes
01:00	Seveas	sabdfl_, no, we're now 4 of 8, we need 5 according to what we agreed on earlier :)
01:00	JanC	(too many Dutch/Flemish people blog in English)
01:00	MikeB-	I have to leave in 15 minute, my wife teach tonight and I have to pick up my son
01:00	sabdfl_	for members? i think 3/4 is fine
01:01	sabdfl_	if there's a controversial decision, we can set tighter guidelines
01:01	sabdfl_	but i don't think we should block memebrships on high quorum
01:01	sabdfl_	in fact, i think we should delegate more
01:01	sabdfl_	any objections?
01:01	tritium	Seveas: could someone give yarddog a reply please?
01:02	Seveas	tritium, I will
01:02	tritium	Thank you.
01:02	JanC	profoX`: it seems like you forgot to mention you wrote some patches for beryl too   ;)
01:02	Seveas	No objections yet, so let's continu with memberships
01:02	profoX`	JanC: yes but that was no big deal.. just small bugfixes and very small enhancements
01:02	sabdfl_	ok, we have 4 to go
01:02	Burgundavia	4 if it is unanimous?
01:02	Seveas	pleia2, you're next on the list
01:02	pleia2	Hi, I'm Elizabeth Bevilacqua. I've been working with the Ubuntu-Women Project for just over a year, I now an admin on the website, wiki and am the contact for #Ubuntu-Women.
01:03	pleia2	ore recently I've helped launch the US-PA Loco Team, where I admin the website and planet, op in IRC and have participated in and helped organize a few events.
01:03	pleia2	s/ore/More
01:03	Seveas	Burgundavia, so far there are only unanimous decisions when it comes to membership (only a few +0's)
01:03	Seveas	:)
01:03	yarddog	i am here now
01:03	Burgundavia	Seveas: there have been disagreements in the past
=== elkbuntu cheers loudly for pleia2
=== towsonu2003 cheers for pleia2 who is a Debian package maintainer and a very good ubuntu-women project contributor - not to mention her level of awareness in women's issues as they relate to Linux and computing.
01:04	Burgundavia	pleia2: anybody from the -pa loco team?
01:04	dinda	Pleia2 has been doing some amazing work for the ubuntu community;  and brings lots of upstream knowledge (Debian package maintainer) and linuxchix
01:04	Susana	I'm here to cheer for pleia2, she has done a great effort to dynamize the ubuntu-women project and she's one of its greatest contributers. She has always been very wise in her decisions i think she'll be a great member.
01:04	yarddog	Seveas: i am here now
=== jedijf cheers YO! from philly in pa loco for pleia2
01:05	elmo	+1
01:05	AndyP	strong fanclub :)
=== etank cheers for pleia2. She is very active in the PA LoCo and Ubuntu Women.
01:05	Seveas	yarddog, excellent!
01:05	Burgundavia	+1
01:05	MikeB-	+1
01:05	Burgundavia	yay for more women to bridge our awful gender inequality
01:05	pleia2	:)
01:05	Seveas	yarddog, prepare a few lines of introduction so you can paste them when we call you. Pm me when ready
01:05	kalon33	AndyP: yes, what a good fanclub :p
01:05	yarddog	Seveas: ok
01:05	dinda	she's a rock star
01:06	kalon33	lol dinda ^^
01:06	Seveas	dinda, speaking of which, where's the movie of mark and me?
01:06	JanC	no, she's a princess ;)
01:06	tritium	I am sshed in from work, but have to leave.  I support yarddog's applications, as he has been instrumental in helping with the creation of the New Mexico LoCO, #ubuntu-newmexico, the mailing list, requseting the LoCO bot, recruiting members, etc.
01:06	dinda	seveas - being saved for the 'right' moment to reveal  ;-)
01:06	sabdfl_	tritium: we'd love to have him, let's see if a better timed meeting comes along
01:06	Seveas	dinda, I want to see it :)
01:07	tritium	sabdfl_: okay, I understand.  Thank you.
01:07	sabdfl_	pleia2: could you give us a quick state-of-the-nation on U-W?
01:07	Seveas	sabdfl_, he's here now :)
01:07	dinda	seveas - I'll add it to my 2do list - promise
01:07	Burgundavia	unfortunately I need to run
01:07	Seveas	hmm, the CC is falling apart :/
01:08	Burgundavia	we are past 2 hours...
01:08	pleia2	sabdfl_: we're currently working on a few projects we have out there - gathering mentors for our mentoring program and courses; and waiting on some informaiton from the recent UDS to move forward with more HCI stuff
01:08	elkbuntu	Seveas, the meeting has hit 2hrs
01:08	kalon33	sure elkbuntu
01:08	elkbuntu	kalon33, hmm?
01:08	MikeB-	any chance to do the last two memberships
01:08	dinda	and we're trying to get Pleia2 to offer an IRC ops course
01:08	pleia2	dinda: working on it!
01:09	MikeB-	Breunellus and Toxicity999
01:09	kalon33	elkbuntu: (about the meeting length)
01:09	Seveas	MikeB-, and yarddog
01:09	sabdfl_	ok, +1 from me mainly on the back of dinda and other recommendations
01:09	Seveas	ok, that's 4 out of 4
01:10	Seveas	yarddog is next (we still have 3 CC members)
01:10	dinda	She's shy but she does amazing work for Ubuntu
01:10	Seveas	welcome aboard pleia2 !
01:10	etank	good job pleia2
01:10	MikeB-	I have 5 minutes:)
01:10	pleia2	thanks everyone!
01:10	sabdfl_	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Luigi_de_guzman
01:10	Brunellus	I'm Luigi de Guzman, aka Brunellus.  I've been an ubuntu user since Warty.  I'm a Forums staff member, an op on #ubuntuforums, a member of the NU Ubuntu Team.
01:10	yarddog	I first started using Ubuntu about 2 years ago and have used various formats of Linux since 2001. In the fall of 2006, I helped start the IRC channel #ubuntu-newmexico on the Freenode IRC Network in conjunction with Ubuntu Member  Michael Rimbert. I have helped in starting the [WWW]  New Mexico Team Launchpad site and the  Team wiki site as well as add the Team to the list of  LoCo's. I requested the locobot for the IRC channe
01:10	sabdfl_	url in the agenda is busted
=== dinda cheers loud for Pleia2 and goes to have a drink in her honor!
01:10	yarddog	My goals for the New Mexico Team is to include recruiting LoCo membership, assist fellow users with technical problems where possible, continue to serve the New Mexico Team, assist in getting the New Mexico Team recognized and approved, and overall, be a catalyst for Ubuntu.
01:10	DarkSun88	pleia2: Congratulations.
01:10	Seveas	Brunellus, sabdfl_: yarddog is first
01:10	Brunellus	sabdfl_: should be fixed
01:10	Brunellus	sorry, sabdfl_posted my name.
01:11	sabdfl_	well, +1 from me for Brunellus on the back of being a Forums staff member
01:11	gnomefreak	pleia2: congrats
01:11	Seveas	sabdfl_, are you ignoring me now? :)
01:11	sabdfl_	any other quick acks?
01:12	lamalex	+1 for pleia
01:12	lamalex	sorry it's late
01:12	lamalex	and unneeded
01:12	sabdfl_	Seveas: no, sorry, was just following the agenda, didn't see yarddog arrive
01:12	sabdfl_	welcome yarddog
01:12	MikeB-	+1 for brunellus, a great mod on the forums and a pleasure to work with
01:12	sabdfl_	we've heard many good things about you :-)
01:12	yarddog	hello sabdfl_ :P
01:12	elmo	+1 for brunellus
01:12	sabdfl_	3/4
01:12	PriceChild	HUGE cheer for Brunellus !!!
=== `23meg cheers for Brunellus, who does a great job of steering discussions to constructive ends in the forums
01:13	Seveas	sabdfl_, 3/3 -> Burgundavia left
01:13	sabdfl_	done
01:13	sabdfl_	welcome!
01:13	Brunellus	YAY!
01:13	sabdfl_	yarddog: fire away
01:13	Brunellus	thanks everyone!
01:13	MikeB-	yarddog your wiki is kinda thin, what is your launchpad
01:13	Seveas	sabdfl_, scroll up :)
01:13	sacater	sabdfl_: pm
01:13	yarddog	MikeB-: http://launchpad.net/~jamesbunnell
01:14	Brunellus	Thanks everybody!  I'll get my key signed soon enough.  I'm off to catch a train.
01:15	MikeB-	yarddog: you are off to a good start, but I think you are not quite ready,
01:15	sabdfl_	yarddog: agree with MikeB- on that front, the documentation in wiki and LP is thinner than your number of fans would suggest
01:16	MikeB-	are you invloved in other Ubuntu areas
01:16	yarddog	ive begun getting involved in kubuntu as well
01:16	sabdfl_	it may well be that there's more to the story, but it's not documented there
01:16	sabdfl_	could you spend some time on your profile in the project, then come back?
01:16	sabdfl_	there's no rush
01:18	MikeB-	yarddog: expand your profile and come back, we would love to see you apply again
01:18	yarddog	ok
01:18	sabdfl_	thanks for taking the time to come now, though
01:18	sabdfl_	ok
01:18	Seveas	last one
01:18	sabdfl_	final stop?
01:18	Seveas	Toxicity999,
01:18	hidan	go go toxicity!!! :D
01:19	Toxicity999	Okay then! First, way sorry for holding up the meeting. And some people who I had asked to come help me out with some words of love couldn't make it, but moving on to the goodies!
01:19	cypherbios	toxicity, like SOAD. cool! :)
01:19	Toxicity999	Lol
01:19	Toxicity999	Yes.
01:19	Toxicity999	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BryanHaskins
01:19	Toxicity999	Hi, I'm Bryan, I'm 16 years old and I live in Maine, the Canada of the States, and I've been working, as a user, with Ubuntu Since late in the release of hoary (Basically just before breezy) And I have made my mark in the community support sector. I hover the forums answering support needs with a lot of my free time, and even cover lead on the Launchpad (Ubuntu Answers) bit of The Forums Beginners Team. I spend a lot of my time doing
01:19	Toxicity999	the little things, like walking people through large issues more directly via irc.
01:20	sabdfl_	that's awesome
01:21	Toxicity999	And if you wonder why my Launchpad doesn't exactly reflect my claim to the Beginners team thing, basically we haven't 100% organized the Launchpad end yet. But you can see I lead the LP team on my account there. :D
01:22	MikeB-	Toxicity999 does good work on the forums
01:23	MikeB-	any other feedback for Toxicity999
01:23	sabdfl_	Toxicity999: are you a forums moderator or staff member?
=== Toxicity999 coughs.
01:23	Toxicity999	No, not currently.
01:24	sabdfl_	ok
01:24	sabdfl_	it seems you are helping in a very nice way
01:24	MikeB-	sabdfl_: he is on a couple of our teams, not a moderator/staff
01:24	Seveas	MikeB-, do something about that kthxbye ;)
01:24	sabdfl_	Toxicity999: what's your main reason for wanting to become a member?
01:25	MikeB-	I do have to go
01:25	Seveas	MikeB-, can we rcord a vote on Toxicity999 ?
01:25	Toxicity999	Well, I think that there is a certain level of trust which comes with it. I mean sure, it feels nice for me, some kind of accomplishment, but It seems as though users put more faith in you when they notice you.
01:26	MikeB-	I think Toxicity999 is off to a good start, but I would like to see more
01:26	Toxicity999	A lot of what I do is just really hard to tally, I think.
01:26	DBO	I know its a little late, but woo woo Toxicity999 =)
01:27	Toxicity999	I've been way more active on IRC lately. Whcih without scouring the logs and such kind of hard to quantify.
01:27	hidan	oh good to go toxicity
01:27	Toxicity999	This is a really awkward silence =D
01:27	MikeB-	Toxicity999: I say keep up the good work and come back in a couple of month
01:28	hidan	awwww toxic... hmm.
01:28	MikeB-	PM me in the forums and we can work on quanify your work in th wiki
01:28	MikeB-	Mike in the forums
01:28	MikeB-	later all
01:28	MikeB-	I must get
01:29	Toxicity999	Alright, I think it might of worked out if more of the people I was hoping to show up would have =S they were all busy tonight.
01:29	sabdfl_	sorry
01:29	Seveas	ok, so that concludes todays meeting (now we really have no quorum).
01:29	sabdfl_	wrapping up for the night here
01:29	hidan	huh
01:29	sabdfl_	you're in good shape Toxicity999, but not there yet
01:29	Seveas	Toxicity999, good luck next time, I'm sure you'll make it!
01:29	sabdfl_	keep going!
01:29	sabdfl_	seveas, it's just you and me!
01:29	sabdfl_	and elmo
01:29	Toxicity999	Understood =]  Thanks.
01:29	Seveas	datetim for next meeting?
01:29	sabdfl_	heh. whenever WE want :-)
=== sacater listens
01:30	sabdfl_	perhaps something early UTC, for the Asian side of the world?
01:30	Toxicity999	Well now it just has to be when it's inconvenient for the ditchers, hehe.
01:30	Seveas	june 13, 09:00 UTC?
01:30	Seveas	(edubuntu has the room 14:00-16:00)
01:31	elmo	fine by me, FWIW
01:31	elmo	maybe ask the list before confirming though?
01:31	Seveas	yeah, will do
=== Seveas needs to go to bed as well, as the alarmbells will ring in 5 hours
01:32	sabdfl_	aaahm
01:32	sabdfl_	i think i'm in the USA on that date
01:32	Seveas	launchpad will be poked tomorrow
01:32	sabdfl_	so i won't be up for that one :-(
01:32	sabdfl_	thanks seveas
01:32	sabdfl_	thanks elmo
01:32	effie_jayx	sabdfl_,  thanks
01:32	Seveas	sabdfl_, available online if we make it a more reasonable USA time?
01:32	sabdfl_	welcome again effie_jayx
01:33	mneptok	effie_jayx: congrats
01:33	sabdfl_	Seveas: i'll be jetlagged, so hard to predict
01:33	Seveas	ok
01:33	hidan	sabdfl = mark, right? O_o;; wow... but thanks for establishing canonical, mark.
01:33	sabdfl_	don't block on me, my travel schedule is a nightmare in the next 3 months
01:33	nixternal	lol
01:33	effie_jayx	mneptok,  :D
01:33	sabdfl_	you're welcome, hidan
01:33	Seveas	okay, I'll poke the CC list then. g'night for now
01:33	sabdfl_	night all!
</pre>
