{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* libmysqlclient-dev transition (https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-August/028740.html)
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Asterisk =====

jmdault reported he had built all packages relevant to the Asterisk stack in his <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jmdault/+archive/ppa|PPA]]</nowiki>. This update would bring Asterisk to the latest version: 1.6. Testing is welcome.

ACTION: jmdault to ask sponsorship for pwlib -> openh323 -> dahdi* -> asterisk* packages

===== Update Ebox to 1.3 =====

foolano stated that packages were already in a PPA and debdiffs had been attached to bugs.

ACTION: zul to review ebox 1.3 packages

===== SRU weekly review =====

mathiaz added the list of nominated bugs relevant to packages interesting to the ubuntu-server team to the list of bugs fixed during last week. Both lists were reviewed during the meeting and relevant bugs were accepted for SRU. mathiaz reminded that the updated SRU process was documented in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20resources|Ubuntu Server Knowledgebase]]</nowiki>.

ACTION: ttx to go throught the list of nominated bugs and decline them

===== libmysqlclient-dev transition =====

mathiaz announced that MySQL 5.1 had been promoted to main on Monday and that transitioning build dependencies (libmysqlclient15-dev to libmysqlclient-dev) had started for packages in main. MySQL 5.0 will stay in universe for karmic and will be removed from the repository during the next release cycle.

===== Server tips : implementation =====

Daviey reported he had committed 32 new tips to the ubuntu-server-tips repository. Translations also started. nijaba offered to review submitted tips. Work for integrating the package with update-motd is also underway with some help from kirkland.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

mathiaz reminded everyone that Feature Freeze is scheduled for next week.

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, August 25th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:01. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:01] <mathiaz> last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090811
[16:02] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Asterisk
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Asterisk
[16:02] <mathiaz> what's the state of pwlib?
[16:02] <nijaba> o/
[16:02] <mathiaz> it seems that pwlib was the last blocker to get asterisk 1.6 in ubuntu
[16:02] <Daviey> mathiaz: no change from me here, since last meeting.
[16:02] <jmdault> pwlib is ok
[16:02] <jmdault> https://launchpad.net/~jmdault/+archive/ppa
[16:03] <Daviey> jmdault: so you rebuilt pwlib aswell?
[16:03] <Daviey> as in, the one in the archive is not good?
[16:03] <jmdault> Daviey: the one in the archive is missing the -dev
[16:03] <Daviey> isn't it -develop in the archive?
[16:04] <mathiaz> jmdault: which package from the ppa should be pushed to karmic?
[16:04] <Daviey> mathiaz: the pwlib :)
[16:04] <jmdault> mathiaz: all packages =)
[16:04] <Daviey> jmdault: http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/libpt-1.10.10-develop
[16:05] <jmdault> Daviey: it didn't seem to match the BuildRequires
[16:05] <Daviey> true.
[16:05] <mathiaz> jmdault: ok - next step is to ask for sponsorship then
[16:05] <jmdault> Debian changed the way the pwlib/libpt package is done
[16:05] <mathiaz> jmdault: I'd suggest to prioritize the package as this is a long list
[16:05] <jmdault> mathiaz: I have 2 core devs at the office
[16:05] <jmdault> =)
[16:06] <mathiaz> jmdault: are all the packages required?
[16:06] <Daviey> jmdault: it's my understanding that they want to move as much as possible away from pwlib.
[16:06] <mathiaz> jmdault: core-dev -> great.
[16:06] <jmdault> mathiaz: the most important packages are pwlib and openh323
[16:06] <mathiaz> jmdault: so you know how the process works
[16:06] <jmdault> mathiaz: as they're the building blocks
[16:06] <mathiaz> jmdault: ok - so I'd suggest to start by these
[16:06] <zul> hi
[16:06] <mathiaz> jmdault: and move down the list by priority order
[16:07] <Daviey> jmdault: superb.
[16:07] <mathiaz> anything else to add on this topic?
[16:07] <Daviey> pwlib -> openh323 -> dahdi* -> asterisk* IMP
[16:07] <Daviey> IMO*
[16:07] <jmdault> Daviey: yes
[16:07] <jmdault> mathiaz: there's one thing to add
[16:08] <jmdault> mathiaz: Asterisk 1.6 does not support fax as it used to do
[16:08] <mathiaz> [ACTION] jmdault to ask sponsorship for pwlib -> openh323 -> dahdi* -> asterisk* packages
[16:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jmdault to ask sponsorship for pwlib -> openh323 -> dahdi* -> asterisk* packages
[16:08] <jmdault>  asterisk-app-fax will need to be removed from the repo
[16:08] <jmdault> it's been deprecated since 2007
[16:08] <mathiaz> jmdault: are there any plans to replace it upstream?
[16:09] <Daviey> openh323 rebuild will require rebuild of other packages, inc Ekiga i believe.. but that is the core devs problem not the server team :)
[16:09] <jmdault> mathiaz: Asterisk 1.6 has a bundled fax send and receive function
[16:09] <mathiaz> jmdault: deprecated -> replaced by something else?
[16:09] <Daviey> Digium have a non-free fax app now.. don't they
[16:09] <Daviey> ?
[16:09] <jmdault> mathiaz: however, the trend is to use iaxmodem + hylafax
[16:09] <Daviey> ^^ /me does this.. not the cleanest..
[16:10] <jmdault> also, the asterisk-addons package is not in Debian right now
[16:10] <jmdault> only in svn
[16:10] <jmdault> so I took the version from svn
[16:10] <mathiaz> jmdault: so there is a functional equivalent to asterisk-app-fax?
[16:10] <jmdault> mathiaz: yes, asterisk 1.6 provides its own app_fax
[16:11] <mathiaz> jmdault: ok - asterisk-app-fax can be dropped from the archive as there is functional replacement available in karmic
[16:11] <mathiaz> ok - anything else to add on this topic?
[16:11] <jmdault> nope
[16:11] <mathiaz> great - let's move on then
[16:12] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Update Ebox to 1.3
[16:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Update Ebox to 1.3
[16:12] <mathiaz> what's the state of ebox 1.3?
[16:12] <mathiaz> foolano: zul: ^^
[16:12] <foolano> packages are already in the PPA, and I have also attached the diff to the lp bugs
[16:12] <zul> its on my plate for this afternoon
[16:13] <foolano> :)
[16:13] <mathiaz> ok - seems like everything is on track.
[16:13] <foolano> btw, there's a new dependency that i uploaded to revu and to debian
[16:13] <mathiaz> Feature Freeze is next week - so plan accordingly
[16:13] <foolano> it made it to the debian archive before, so i dunno what i should do with it
[16:13] <mathiaz> foolano: I've read your email to ubuntu-server about slapd and will reply to it later today
[16:14] <zul> foolano: just sync it then
[16:14] <foolano> mathiaz: thx :)
[16:14] <mathiaz> foolano: if the package is already in the debian archive you can ask for a sync
[16:14] <foolano> ok :)
[16:14] <mathiaz> foolano: but it needs to get passed the NEW queue
[16:14] <mathiaz> foolano: the Debian NEW queue
[16:14] <foolano> mathiaz: it has already passed the NEW queue
[16:15] <mathiaz> foolano: ok - then a Sync request is the next step
[16:15] <foolano> cool
[16:15] <mathiaz> [ACTION] zul to review ebox 1.3 packages
[16:15] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to review ebox 1.3 packages
[16:15] <mathiaz> anything else to add on this topic?
[16:15] <foolano> nope
[16:15] <mathiaz> great - let's move on
[16:16] <mathiaz> that's all from last week minutes
[16:16] <mathiaz> anything else to add wrt last week meeting?
[16:17] <Daviey> hmm
[16:17] <Daviey> ubuntu-server-tips
[16:18] <Daviey> mathiaz: may i?
[16:18] <mathiaz> Daviey: I'll get to this one later
[16:18] <Daviey> ok.
[16:18] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on.
[16:18] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] SRU weekly review
[16:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  SRU weekly review
[16:18] <ttx> yay
[16:18] <zul> yay...
[16:19] <mathiaz> As announced in the agenda I've put up one more list online
[16:19] <Daviey> \o/
[16:19]  * zul suggests #382136
[16:19] <mathiaz> http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/fix-released-bugs.ubuntu-server.2009-08-17.html
[16:19] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/fix-released-bugs.ubuntu-server.2009-08-17.html
[16:19] <mathiaz> these bugs have been fixed last week
[16:19] <mathiaz> which are SRU worthy?
[16:19] <mathiaz> which *one* are SRU worthy?
[16:20] <zul> bug #382136 the samba one
[16:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 382136 in samba "Smbd startup failure caused by a failure to create an NT token for the guest account." [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/382136
[16:20]  * ttx suggests to remove open-iscsi from the "server packages" list, since Foundations takes care of it
[16:20] <mathiaz> ttx: ok.
[16:20] <Daviey> ttx: although isscsi is IMO a "server" thing.. so it would be good for us to help, prod and poke where we can, surely?
[16:20] <ttx> ack on 382136, it's already accepted
[16:23] <ttx> Daviey: I'm not sure we are in the right position to make decisions for that package, like for example SRU acceptations
=== bjf is now known as bjf-afk
[16:23] <mathiaz> ttx: ubuntu-server removed from the open-iscsi bug contact
[16:23] <Daviey> ttx: sure.
[16:23] <ttx> that doesn't prevent us from helping triaging there :)
[16:23] <mathiaz> ttx: and thus open-iscsi won't show up on the lists anymore
[16:24] <mathiaz> how about bug 57974?
[16:24] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 57974 in vtun "VTun client segfault" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/57974
[16:25] <mathiaz> zul: how did that bug got fix released?
[16:25] <Daviey> Does   Bug #358723:
[16:25] <Daviey> This report is public edit
[16:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 358723 in awstats "awstats.pl does not close table row" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/358723
[16:25] <Daviey> need an SRU?
[16:26] <zul> mathias: looking at the mailing list archives and the bug is 3 years old as well
[16:26] <ttx> Daviey: sounds like an easy workaround, and the bug is quite specific
[16:26] <mathiaz> Daviey: would it fit any of the criteria of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates?
[16:26] <mathiaz> zul: upstream mailing list archive?
[16:27] <zul> mathiaz: correct
[16:27] <Daviey> mathiaz: probably not.
[16:27] <mathiaz> zul: and having a bug 3 years old doesn't mean that it must be fixed
[16:27] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 3 in rosetta "Custom information for each translation team" [Low,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/3
[16:27] <ttx> heh
[16:27] <mathiaz> zul: I'd suggest to try to add a reason why the bug is fixed released
[16:28] <zul> mathiaz: tracking down the fix might be a bit harder as well
[16:28] <mathiaz> ok - anything else from the list?
[16:28] <zul> mathiaz: sure
[16:28] <ttx> I'm not sure bug 254687 should be fix-released
[16:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 254687 in vsftpd "userlist options doesn't work in vsftpd" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/254687
[16:28] <ttx> "What i did is copy and paste users twice in user_list file and it worked" sounds like there is still a bug there
[16:29] <ttx> A "low" one, granted, with an easy workaround...
[16:29] <ttx> or do I miss something ?
[16:29]  * mathiaz agrees
[16:30] <ttx> zul: if you agree, reopen that one.
[16:30] <zul> k
[16:30] <ttx> mathiaz: nothing else in that list I guess
[16:30] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on then
[16:30] <mathiaz> to the next list
[16:30] <mathiaz> http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/nominated-bugs.ubuntu-server.2009-08-17.html
[16:30] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/nominated-bugs.ubuntu-server.2009-08-17.html
[16:31] <mathiaz> ^^ these are the bugs that are nominated for each release
[16:31] <mathiaz> we should either accept or decline every one of them
[16:31] <mathiaz> which one should be accepted?
[16:31] <ttx> I would obviously accept bug 379748, I nominated it :)
[16:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 379748 in squid "Please import a fix for Debian bug 513102 (resolvconf integration)" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/379748
[16:32] <ttx> I'd also accept bug 272060
[16:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 272060 in likewise-open "Missing DDNS update when a domain is joined" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/272060
[16:32] <Daviey> well the ones marked with CVE are possibly worthy..
[16:32] <mathiaz> ttx: accepted
[16:33] <ttx> Daviey: they are uisually already fixed
[16:33] <ttx> just need some cleanups
[16:33] <ttx> I'd accept bug 253743
[16:33] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 253743 in apache2 "[SRU] Add status to init script" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/253743
[16:34] <ttx> that's all for me
[16:34] <mathiaz> ttx: hm - how would it fit under the SRU criteria?
[16:35] <mathiaz> ttx: it's a new feature AFAICT
[16:35] <Daviey> I do wonder if 253743 is worth fixing for hardy.. Surely there is a worthy work-around if that bug is a year old?
[16:35] <ttx> mathiaz: agreed. Decline it.
[16:35] <MsMaco> i would assume the workaround is ps
[16:36] <mathiaz> ok - anything else worth accepting on the nominated list?
[16:36] <mathiaz> if not, all the remaining bugs should be marked declined
[16:36] <mathiaz> if not, all the remaining bugs should be declined
[16:36] <Daviey> 282876 ?
[16:37] <mathiaz> bug 282876
[16:37] <ttx> I will go through the list and accept/fix-released the ones that happen to be already fixed
[16:37] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 282876 in drbd8 "drbd doesn't start on boot" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/282876
[16:37] <zul> the via padlock ones should probably be denied
[16:37] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ttx to go throught the list of nominated bugs and decline them
[16:37] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to go throught the list of nominated bugs and decline them
[16:37] <Sam-I-Am> how do segfault-type bugs get handled?  i have one that belongs to dhcp3, but isn't being worked on...
[16:38] <ttx> mathiaz: I'll leave the dubious ones for more fun next week.
[16:38] <mathiaz> zul: done
[16:38] <mdz> Sam-I-Am, they generally need to be checked for private information and then made public before most developers can see them
[16:38] <nijaba> Sam-I-Am: on a server package?  bug # please?
[16:38] <Sam-I-Am> 358589
[16:38] <Daviey> bug 358589
[16:38] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 358589 in dhcp3 "Segmentation fault during peer startup in failover configuration" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/358589
[16:39] <mdz> oh, it isn't a crash report
[16:39] <mathiaz> allright - that's all for the Weekly SRU review
[16:39] <mathiaz> anything else to add?
[16:39] <mathiaz> next week we'll add one more list to review
[16:40] <mathiaz> which the list of accepted bugs and see how things are working there
[16:40] <Sam-I-Am> mdz: should that kind of bug become a crash report?
[16:40] <mathiaz> FYI the whole SRU process is described in the Knowledge base: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20resources
[16:41] <Sam-I-Am> thx
[16:41] <mathiaz> anything else to add on this topic?
=== bjf-afk is now known as bjf
[16:42] <mathiaz> let's move on then
[16:42] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] libmysqlclient-dev transition
[16:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  libmysqlclient-dev transition
[16:42] <mathiaz> soren: ^^
[16:42] <soren> Yes.
[16:43] <mathiaz> well - I've uploaded a new version of MySQL 5.1 to karmic
[16:43] <mathiaz> and it was promoted to main yesterday
[16:43] <mathiaz> there are a bunch of packages that need to have their dependencies updated in main: libmysqclient15-dev -> libmysqlclient-dev
[16:44] <soren> Right. As a result, packages in main that depend on libmysqlclien15-dev will fail to build, so they need to be updated. There's ~10 packages affected by this, afaics.
[16:44] <mathiaz> soren: yes - I've already uploaded a third of them
[16:44] <soren> mathiaz: Ah, yes, so I see :)
[16:44] <mathiaz> A bunch of them are kde/qt related - I'll ask Riddell about it
[16:44] <mathiaz> and I'll do the rest
[16:45] <mathiaz> soren: anything else to add?
[16:45] <soren> Not really. I was just thinking maybe someone else wanted to do it.
[16:45] <soren> It's not very sexy, but it's always rewarding to see a package with your name on it get uploaded :)
[16:46] <zul> what about the packages in universe i forget what about those?
[16:46] <mathiaz> zul: MySQL 5.0 is still universe for karmic
[16:46] <mathiaz> getting rid of 5.0 is a goal for the next release cycle
[16:46] <zul> k
[16:47] <mathiaz> debian is also transitioning from 5.0 to 5.1
[16:47] <mathiaz> so we should get all the benefits in the next cycle
[16:47] <zul> and the packages in universe that have the dependency on libmsqlclient-dev15?
[16:47] <soren> zul: It's still in universe, so they're fine.
[16:47] <zul> gotcha
[16:48] <mathiaz> zul: and the dependency should be updated in Debian
[16:48] <mathiaz> zul: while the transition to 5.1 is going on there.
[16:48] <mathiaz> anything other questions/comments on this topic?
[16:48] <zul> nope
[16:49] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on.
[16:49] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Server tips : implementation
[16:49] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server tips : implementation
[16:49] <mathiaz> Daviey: ^^?
[16:49] <Daviey> ah ha!
[16:49] <Daviey> Okay, i wrote an update on the ML.. did everyone catch that?
[16:50] <nijaba> yep
[16:50] <Daviey> great.. So i wanted to quickly talk about process.. I'm not sure it's a good long term plan for just me to approve and commit tips
[16:50] <Daviey> We currently have 32 tips committed.. and translations are doing much better.
[16:50] <nijaba> one remark: I think that some of the tips you approve go well beyond 160 chararcters
[16:51] <Daviey> nijaba: yeah.. i noted this.. it's not a *huge* problem in itself, as if we want to limit to 160 chars, we can poll fortune to only return short (160 ones)
[16:51] <Daviey> 160 wasn't an random figure :)
[16:51] <Daviey> a*
[16:52] <mathiaz> Daviey: IIRC one the proposal was to do a review before an upload
[16:52] <nijaba> Daviey: agreed.  Other than that, I have reviewed while translating, and all seem to abide to the rules on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/server-tips
[16:52] <Daviey> mathiaz: That is great, but how.. Does the weekly meeting really have time to cover any tips from that week?
[16:52] <mathiaz> Daviey: so you can commit new tips and we can review all of them on a monthly basis before preparing an upload
[16:52] <Daviey> makes sense.
[16:53] <mathiaz> Daviey: sending a monthly email to the mailing list seems a good option
[16:53] <Daviey> Would anybody else like to help confirm / committing them?
[16:53] <nijaba> Daviey: I volunteer
[16:53] <Daviey> hurray o/
[16:53] <mathiaz> great - anything else to add on this topic?
[16:53] <Daviey> One thing.
[16:54] <Daviey> I was waiting on better translations and more tips before requesting inclusion in archives
[16:54] <Daviey> How many tips should the target be, before doing this?
[16:54] <mathiaz> Daviey: well - FeatureFreeze is next week
[16:54] <nijaba> Daviey: I don't think volume should count, mostly quality
[16:54] <Daviey> so should we get it in, then bump with more tips?
[16:54] <mathiaz> Daviey: so that's the timeline for Karmic
[16:55] <nijaba> Daviey: so please, go ahead
[16:55] <Daviey> wilco.
[16:55] <Daviey> erm, is the plan still to have it as part of update-motd?
[16:55] <Daviey> In which case, we are looking at main, right?
[16:55] <mathiaz> Daviey: first universe
[16:56] <nijaba> Daviey: yep, kirkland was supposed to give us a one line to drop in update-motd.d
[16:56] <kirkland> nijaba: sure, you want that now?
[16:56] <Daviey> nijaba: well the script to retrieve a locale tip seems to work. so should be easy for kirkland.
[16:56] <mathiaz> we're running out of time
[16:56] <nijaba> kirkland: yep, that would be nice so that Daviey can include it in the package
[16:56] <mathiaz> so I'd suggest to differ this discussion to #ubuntu-server
[16:56] <kirkland> nijaba: i'll get with Daviey later today
[16:56] <mathiaz> anything else to add?
[16:56] <Daviey> ok.
[16:56] <nijaba> kirkland: thanks
[16:58] <mathiaz> anything else to add?
[16:58] <Daviey> EOF
[16:58] <nealmcb> :)
[16:58] <nijaba> Ctrl-D
[16:58] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:58] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:59] <mathiaz> next week - same place, same time?
[16:59] <Daviey> sounds good.
[16:59] <ttx> yes
[16:59] <mathiaz> And don't forget that Feature Freeze is around the corner
[16:59] <nijaba> I'll be off next week, but I'll read the meeting notes :)
[16:59] <jmdault> mathiaz: sounds good
[16:59] <Sam-I-Am> mathiaz: one thing... did you get my email about some patches to the build mechanism for openldap?
[17:00] <Sam-I-Am> mathiaz: not even sure it made it to the list
[17:00] <mathiaz> Sam-I-Am: I don't think so. Let's take this to #ubuntu-server
[17:00] <Sam-I-Am> sure
[17:00] <mathiaz> see you all next week, same place, same time.
[17:00] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
