{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
*** None from April 12 meeting
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

Containercon CFP is coming up April 26.

Openstack is coming up in Austin, April 25-29.

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 26th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:00 < hallyn> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
16:00 < meetingology> Meeting started Tue Apr 19 16:00:49 2016 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
16:00 < meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
16:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
16:00 < hallyn> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
16:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
16:01 < hallyn> None :)
16:01 < hallyn> #topic Xenial Development
16:01 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Xenial Development
16:01 < matsubara> o/
16:01 < hallyn> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
16:01 < hallyn> #subtopic Release Bugs
16:01 < hallyn> no wait,
16:01 < hallyn> so the release team is currently physically co-located making that xenial magic happen,
16:01 < hallyn> anything we need to discuss regarding that?
16:02 < hallyn> i'll take that as no, let' sgo on to release bugs,
16:02 < hallyn> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
16:02 < jgrimm> not that i'm aware of
16:02 < hallyn> kewl
16:02  * hallyn waiting for htat link to load...
16:02 < hallyn> all i see is '38 bugs', but it won't show them to me,
16:03 < hallyn> jgrimm: (since i can't see them yet) any particularly concerning bugs on that list?
16:03 < jgrimm> looking
16:03 < hallyn> finally loaded, i see 5 high/triaged
16:04 < nacc> jgrimm: shoudl the mysql-5.6 bug not be in that list? since 5.6 is in universe now?
16:04 < hallyn> one of those is actually fix-released
16:04 < nacc> or is it to track if 5.7 has the same issue?
16:04 < hallyn> that list seems to be out of date
16:04 < rbasak> All 5.6 bugs should probably be moved to 5.7 at some point.
16:05 < nacc> (LP: #1455818)
16:05 < ubottu> Launchpad bug 1455818 in mysql-5.6 (Ubuntu Wily) "mysql-server-5.6.postrm fails when /usr/share/mysql-common/configure-symlinks doesn't exist" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1455818
16:05 < nacc> rbasak: ack, that's what i was wondering
16:05 < rbasak> That's an SRU only I think, isn't it?
16:05 < jgrimm> right
16:05 < hallyn> looks like bug 1398999 should be fix-committed for nova
16:05 < ubottu> bug 1398999 in nova (Ubuntu Wily) "Block migrate with attached volumes copies volumes to themselves" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1398999
16:05 < nacc> should it have [SRU] to document that, rbasak ?
16:05 < hallyn> but i don't know how they handle their bugs, so...
16:05 < rbasak> nacc: if you like.
16:06 < cpaelzer> in the list is one I looked at before - the reported failed to reports what I asked for but anybody with an AMD FX-* cpu could take a short look at bug 1561019 to make sure it isn't critical in any way
16:06 < ubottu> bug 1561019 in libvirt (Ubuntu Wily) "copied cpu flags don't match host cpu" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1561019
16:06 < rbasak> nacc: the metadata makes it clear if you look at the bug, but I appreciate [SRU] may be helpful to see immediately in a report.
16:06 < nacc> rbasak: ack, updated
16:07 < nacc> well, that brings up another question about this list, shouldn't we only be concerned about xenial release bugs?
16:07 < hallyn> cpaelzer: is that one amd-specific?
16:07 < cpaelzer> well, the reporter says cpu flags are missing
16:07 < cpaelzer> it works for me on my cpu
16:07 < rbasak> Yeah that's one of the issues with that list, IMHO. Milestones would work better since they can more easily be moved or dropped as appropriate.
16:07 < cpaelzer> and he reported it explicitly as "on AMD FX-8350"
16:07 < cpaelzer> hallyn: so the confirmation needed would be AMD specific
16:07 < nacc> rbasak: ack, thanks
16:09 < hallyn> cpaelzer: all right i put tha ton my list for later today, let' smove on
16:09 < cpaelzer> hallyn: thanks
16:09 < hallyn> any other bugs critical to discuss?
16:10 < hallyn> if not, moving on,
16:10 < hallyn> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
16:10 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
16:10 < hallyn> hey caribou 
16:10 < hallyn> paging caribou,
16:11 < hallyn> \o happy tuesday :)  moving on,
16:11 < hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
16:11 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
16:11 < hallyn> hey matsubara 
16:11 < matsubara> hallyn, nothing to report
16:11 < hallyn> that's what i love to hear,
16:11 < hallyn> thanks, moving on,
16:11 < hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
16:11 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
16:11 < smb> No big badaboom as of yet. Watching the release train approach...
16:11 < hallyn> i hear it's at the station, boarding,
16:12 < hallyn> thx, moving on,
16:12 < hallyn> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
16:12 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
16:12 < hallyn> contaienrcon deadline is actually coming up i think,
16:12 < hallyn> (for toronto)
16:12 < hallyn> anything else server-related?
16:13 < hallyn> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
16:13 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
16:13 < hallyn> openstack summit of course is coming up,
16:13 < hallyn> bunch of lucky folks visiting lovely austin tx,
16:14 < hallyn> any other team related events?
16:14 < hallyn> ok, moving on,
16:14 < hallyn> #topic Open Discussion
16:14 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
16:14 < teward> nginx may be getting an update today, if infinity approves it (bugfixes whoohoo!)
16:15 < hallyn> in xenial?
16:15 < teward> and unrelated: every server-related summit, conference, etc. seems to be in Austin this year (nginx.conf is one, later this year, which I may be attending)
16:15 < teward> hallyn: yes - infinity is already in the loop on this
16:15  * teward briefed him prior to FinalFreeze
16:15 < hallyn> my nefarious machinations are unrelated to that (austin) tidbit, fwiw
16:15 < teward> yep
16:15 < hallyn> cool
16:16 < teward> and that's all from me., apologies for being late, some non-ubuntu security things needed my attention
16:16 < hallyn> congratulations, that's quite a feat, rough week to get something included :)
16:16 < teward> :P
16:16 < hallyn> ok, so i think we're done, 
16:16 < hallyn> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
16:16 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
16:16 < teward> if it doesn't land today due to FInal, it's a 0-day SRU, but we're seeing some HTTP/2 stuff that needs to land
16:17  * teward is done :)
16:17 < hallyn> next meeting will be on April 26, 16:00 utc.
16:17 < hallyn> i'm not sure whether arosales or rbasak will be chairing
16:17 < hallyn> teward: yup sounds important :)
16:17 < hallyn> thanks everyone!
16:17 < hallyn> #endmeeting
16:17 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
16:17 < meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Apr 19 16:17:55 2016 UTC.
16:17 < meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-04-19-16.00.moin.txt
</pre>
