{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC-4
<pre>
(04:02:39 PM) Keybuk: so let's get going
(04:02:42 PM) mjg59_: Ok
(04:03:06 PM) Keybuk: has anybody applied for ubuntu-core-dev maintainership?
(04:03:09 PM) mjg59_: One potential proposed core-dev member, I think?
(04:03:14 PM) mjg59_: But he's been on the list for a while
(04:03:34 PM) mjg59_: And not in ubuntu-dev, so I think we can pass
(04:03:42 PM) ***Keybuk declines
(04:03:47 PM) mjg59_: Ok.
(04:03:54 PM) mjg59_: Any MOTU candidates to go over this week?
(04:04:02 PM) Keybuk: ok, other question; is there anybody from core-dev who's about to expire -- now would be a good time? :p
(04:04:12 PM) Keybuk: mdz: hey, we're just going down the maintainer list
(04:04:17 PM) mdz: howdy
(04:04:21 PM) ***Keybuk doesn't see anyone from MOTU
(04:04:25 PM) Keybuk: is a member of the MOTU Council here?
(04:04:35 PM) gpocentek: yep
(04:04:39 PM) gpocentek: good evening
(04:04:45 PM) Burgundavia: Keybuk: bdebian said something about him expiring
(04:04:48 PM) Keybuk: gpocentek: do you have anybody needing approval?
(04:04:56 PM) gpocentek: Keybuk: no
(04:04:57 PM) Keybuk: Burgundavia: bddebian was fixed, no?
(04:05:01 PM) mjg59_: I though bddebian had been re-added
(04:05:06 PM) Burgundavia: Keybuk: just making certain it was
(04:05:08 PM) Keybuk: (it's normal to expire from ubuntu-dev now, motu is the important group)
(04:05:17 PM) crimsun: hello
(04:05:40 PM) mjg59_: Yes, bddebian is in motu
(04:05:44 PM) mjg59_: So I think that's ok
(04:05:46 PM) gpocentek: hello crimsun
(04:05:56 PM) mdz: that was checked when we made the change; everyone in ubuntu-dev was also in motu
(04:06:01 PM) Keybuk: ok, no sabdfl so we have to pass over technical board nominations
(04:06:12 PM) mdz: I need to remind him about that
(04:06:28 PM) Keybuk: :-)
(04:06:34 PM) Keybuk: mdz: could we have a release name first? :p
(04:06:49 PM) mdz: Keybuk: that's all but done
(04:07:07 PM) Keybuk: I have one item of other business I'd like to raise
(04:07:29 PM) Keybuk: meeting time: since we're all in Europe/London now, would it be useful to adjust the meeting times to suit a little better?
(04:07:42 PM) Keybuk: (especially since applicants no longer need to turn up)
(04:07:55 PM) mjg59_: Evening is actually fairly convenient for me, though I understand it's less so for the rest of you
(04:08:16 PM) Keybuk: I wasn't thinking of moving too much, just adjusting for UTC really
(04:08:22 PM) mjg59_: Ok. WFM.
(04:08:36 PM) Keybuk: put it at 1900 UTC (2000 local)
(04:08:40 PM) Keybuk: mdz: what do you think?
(04:09:03 PM) Keybuk: do you have net access at home?
(04:13:20 PM) Keybuk: ok, I guess we'll continue that discussion on the mailing list
(04:13:23 PM) Keybuk: adjourned for now
</pre>
