{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs: http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
** Would <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/eucalyptus/+bug/450044|bug #450044]]</nowiki> qualify for a SRU? - nijaba
* Open Discussion
* Agree on next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* kirkland to finish adapting help.ubuntu.com VM recipe(s?) to use libvirt: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KVM/VirtManager

ACTION: kirkland to add a recipe covering virsh to https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KVM/VirtManager

* nurmi to investigate bug 455625

ACTION: nurmi to investigate bug 455625

===== UDS Lucid preparation =====

ttx created <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/LucidIdeaPool|a wiki page for 10.04]]</nowiki> input from server team. mathiaz reminded that there will two tracks dedicated to the Server team like the last UDS.

===== Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs =====

A discussion about <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/439566|adding python-software-properties to ubuntu-standard]]</nowiki> took place. soren noted that if the request was to add the package to the default server install adding it to ubuntu-standard may not be the best place. zul will look into that with the Fondation team.

ScottK mentioned that it looked like courier was pretty badly broken at the moment and in need of at least a serious triage effort.

===== Eucalyptus Karmic SRU =====

mathiaz announced that a first round of bug fixes for UEC in Karmic had been prepared. Packages are being uploaded to -proposed. Help in testing them will be welcome once they're accepted by the SRU team.

===== Daily EC2 images =====

smoser reminded that 'daily' images of karmic for EC2 are now automatically published twice weekly. Image removal is now covered by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/NamingConvention|the new policy]]</nowiki> In short, 5 builds of each release/arch are kept in 'testing' (daily builds).  When a build 'falls off', it is made private for 30 days before deletion.  This policy covers kernels and ramdisks in '-testing' also. The code is <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-on-ec2/vmbuilder/automated-ec2-builds|available in LP]]</nowiki> - feedback is welcome!

===== spamassassin review =====

ScottK pointed to the state of spamassassin in Lucid: the upstream project hasn't done a new release in over a year. Questions about its fate (leave it stale, switch to svn snapshot, other solution) should be discussed during UDS.

ACTION: Daviey to investigate spamassassin status in lucid

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

ACTION: mathiaz to update the fridge

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, November 11th at 14:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[14:00] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[14:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:00. The chair is mathiaz.
[14:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:01] <mathiaz> Welcome to the first Lucid server team meeting!
[14:01] <mathiaz> There should be many more of these in the months to come
[14:01] <mathiaz> Today's agenda:
[14:01] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[14:01] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:02] <mathiaz> kirkland to finish adapting help.ubuntu.com VM recipe(s?) to use libvirt
[14:02] <mathiaz> nurmi to investigate bug 455625
[14:02] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 455625 in eucalyptus "Eucalyptus Loses Public IP Address" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/455625
[14:02] <soren> o/
[14:02] <mathiaz> ttx to create wiki page for 10.04 input from server team (Done)
[14:03] <soren> URL?
[14:03] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/LucidIdeaPool
[14:03] <soren> We can still add stuff to that page, right?
[14:04] <mathiaz> soren: yes!
[14:04] <soren> Whoo!
[14:04] <smoser> how does that page jive with blueprints / uds ?
[14:04] <mathiaz> smoser: points on this page should be turned into blueprints
[14:04] <zul> uh....i started mine
[14:04] <smoser> thats what i thought.
[14:05] <soren> zul: What do you mean?
[14:05] <mathiaz> smoser: blueprints will be selected by mdz and schedule for a session during UDS
[14:05] <zul> soren: started blueprints
[14:05] <mathiaz> smoser: where they will be discussed and the scope for Lucid will be defined
[14:05] <smoser> thanks mathiaz
[14:05] <soren> mathiaz: So this time, we'll just create placeholder blueprints for everything in that page (roughly)?
[14:06] <mathiaz> soren: right - I'd suggest to try to cluster some of the points in blueprints
[14:06] <mathiaz> soren: as some of the points cover the same topics
[14:06] <soren> mathiaz: Do we know how many sessions we need to fill this time?
[14:06] <mathiaz> soren: IIRC there will two tracks again
[14:06]  * soren grumbles
[14:06] <mathiaz> soren: so as many as last time
[14:07] <soren> In that case, i doubt we'll need to cluster anything.
[14:07] <soren> Seriously, there was like a million session in Barcelona.
[14:07] <mathiaz> robbiew: around? could you confirm this^^?
[14:07] <mathiaz> soren: right.
[14:08] <mathiaz> soren: that being said the goal is LTS - so keep this is mind when creating blueprints
[14:08] <soren> It was difficult to fill that many sessions, and even harder to actually be in two places at once for an entire week.
[14:08] <zul> and no crack ;)
[14:09] <soren> We can't fill 40 sessions without crack. :)
[14:09] <soren> Or 50. Or a million or however many it is.
[14:09]  * soren is a grumpy, old man today.
[14:10] <mathiaz> ok - anything else to add to the preparation for Lucid?
[14:10]  * nijaba wonders what he is, if soren considers himself old
[14:10] <smoser> i consider soren old
[14:10] <soren> nijaba: I'm too polite to say :)
[14:10] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on then.
[14:11] <nijaba> :P
[14:11] <zul> soren: im not :)
[14:11] <smoser> soren's manners came with age
[14:11] <mathiaz> kirkland and nurmi don't seem to be around
[14:11] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to finish adapting help.ubuntu.com VM recipe(s?) to use libvirt
[14:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to finish adapting help.ubuntu.com VM recipe(s?) to use libvirt
[14:11] <mathiaz> [ACTION] nurmi to investigate bug 455625
[14:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nurmi to investigate bug 455625
[14:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 455625 in eucalyptus "Eucalyptus Loses Public IP Address" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/455625
[14:11] <smoser> i dont know that kirkland has shown himself, and remember i think he had conflicts
[14:11] <mathiaz> anything else to with regard to last week meeting?
[14:11] <kirkland> pretty much done
[14:12] <kirkland> mathiaz: no
[14:12] <mathiaz> kirkland: oh you're here - sorry for stating otherwise
[14:12] <mathiaz> kirkland: what's the url of the VM recipes?
[14:12] <mathiaz> kirkland: on help.ubuntu.com?
[14:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: one sec
[14:14] <kirkland> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KVM/VirtManager
[14:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: i still need to do one for virsh
[14:15] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to add a recipe covering virsh to https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KVM/VirtManager
[14:15] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to add a recipe covering virsh to https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KVM/VirtManager
[14:15] <mathiaz> anything else to add related to last week meeting?
[14:16] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on then.
[14:16] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[14:16] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[14:16] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:16] <robbiew> mathiaz: soren: ack...2 rooms per product track
[14:17] <mathiaz> how is everyone doing with their assigned bug?
[14:17] <zul> mathiaz: been slow
[14:17] <soren> mathiaz: poorly.
[14:17] <soren> I have a good excuse though.
[14:17] <soren> I suck.
[14:17] <mathiaz> zul: soren: any blockers?
[14:17] <mathiaz> (other then time)
[14:17] <zul> mathiaz: nope
[14:18]  * nijaba thinks that if soren sucks, he does that well...
[14:18] <soren> Not per se.
[14:19] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on to the next list:
[14:19] <mathiaz> https://bugs.launchpad.net/~canonical-server/+assignedbugs
[14:19] <mathiaz> there is one: 439566
[14:19] <mathiaz> bug 439566
[14:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 439566 in ubuntu-meta "add python-software-properties to ubuntu-standard" [Wishlist,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/439566
[14:20] <mathiaz> does it make sense?
[14:20] <zul> kind of just adding it to the seed?
[14:20] <mathiaz> well - if it's a good idea to have it added to the seed
[14:21] <mathiaz> need to make sure it doesn't any pull any GUI stuff though
[14:21] <Daviey> sure that is a "nice have", but is it SRU worthy?
[14:21] <mathiaz> Daviey: oh no - not for karmic
[14:21] <Daviey> oh
[14:21] <mathiaz> Daviey: we're looking at Lucid here
[14:21]  * Daviey needs to listen faster
[14:22] <nijaba> Daviey: SRU is next subject
[14:22] <zul> mathiaz: doesnt look like it
[14:22] <soren> I'm not entirely sure I think it belongs in standard.
[14:23] <soren> I'm also not sure I care enough to argue over it.
[14:23] <mathiaz> soren: is this something that should be discussed with the fondations team?
[14:23] <soren> Perhaps.
[14:24] <Daviey> if it's ubuntu-standard, surely it is foundations remit... if we are talking about adding it to the server seed, then it's here (IMO)
[14:24] <soren> I'm not sure... When you choose the minimal install thing on the server CD, do you get ubuntu-standard or ubuntu-minimal?
[14:24] <mathiaz> soren: -minimal IIRC
[14:24] <soren> mathiaz: Ok. Then I don't care :)
[14:25] <mathiaz> zul: could you take care of this?
[14:25] <zul> add it to the server seed? yep
[14:25] <smoser> mathiaz, where does that list come from ?
[14:26] <mathiaz> smoser: which list?
[14:26] <smoser> https://bugs.launchpad.net/~canonical-server/+assignedbugs
[14:26] <smoser> is it just bugs that are manually assigned to server team?
[14:26] <mathiaz> smoser: yes
[14:27] <mathiaz> ok - anything else to add on your assigned bugs?
[14:28] <ScottK> mathiaz: I'll mention again here that it looks like courier is pretty badly broken at the moment and in need of at least a serious triage effort.
[14:28] <ScottK> It looks pretty certain that there are SRU worth bugs.
[14:29] <mathiaz> ScottK: ok. Thanks for mentionning this.
[14:29] <mathiaz> Any help in that area is welcome!
[14:29] <mathiaz> That leads us to the next topic:
[14:29] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review
[14:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review
[14:29] <smoser> i hope to poke on bug 461156 or at least poke the euca folks sometime today
[14:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 461156 in euca2ools "User data is not parsed correctly by Eucalyptus in some cases" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/461156
[14:30] <mathiaz> smoser: great - seems like it's blocked on upstream
[14:30] <mathiaz> smoser: to get the fix for the REST/SOAP interface on the server side
[14:30] <smoser> well, either i need to just fix it or ask nicely.
[14:31] <smoser> just a bug in the REST interface on server side. (well, after you fix the bug in the client too)
[14:31] <mathiaz> on the topic of SRU, there is an eucalyptus SRU in the pipeline
[14:31] <kirkland> mathiaz: i did some testing
[14:31] <kirkland> mathiaz: and i've added sru test instructions to a couple of the bug descriptions
[14:31] <kirkland> mathiaz: so far so good here, on the ppa package
[14:32] <mathiaz> testing the packages using the following PPA is welcome: https://launchpad.net/~mathiaz/+archive/eucalyptus
[14:32] <mathiaz> kirkland: great - thanks
[14:32] <mathiaz> any help in testing out these SRU is welcome
[14:33] <mathiaz> I'll wait at least until tomorrow for ttx comeback
[14:33] <jsalisbury> mathiaz: I can put this on my test systems and give them a go.
[14:33] <mathiaz> he should be able to perform some testing as well
[14:33] <mathiaz> jsalisbury: that would be very helpfull
[14:34] <mathiaz> let's move on to the bug lists review
[14:34] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:34] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:34] <mathiaz> anything SRU worthy on these?
[14:34] <zul> nope
[14:34] <mathiaz> kirkland: bug 379991?
[14:34] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 379991 in linux "Certain VMs do not run under KVM using karmic's kernel" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/379991
[14:35] <mathiaz> zul: bug 254375?
[14:35] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 254375 in ntp "SIGSEGV in ntpq " [Low,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/254375
[14:35]  * kirkland looks
[14:35] <mathiaz> zul: bug 234302?
[14:35] <kirkland> mathiaz: i haven't been able to reproduce this one
[14:35] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 234302 in ipmitool "ipmitool console session crashed with SIGSEGV" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/234302
[14:35] <kirkland> has anyone here been able to?
[14:36] <zul> mathiaz: i think I did before long time ago and its supposedly fixed now
[14:36] <mathiaz> zul: you did what on which bug?
[14:37] <zul> on bug number 234027
[14:37] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - if it can't be easily reproduced and there isn't a clear patch
[14:37] <kirkland> mathiaz: i marked the linux task invalid
[14:38] <kirkland> mathiaz: and i think the kvm one is fix-released, with our kvm meta package
[14:38] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok so nothing to be done on the SRU front
[14:38] <ScottK> For SRU stuff, I'm working on Bug 473707 for Jaunty and Karmic.  Dapper/Hardy/Intrepid will get it in backports.
[14:38] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 473707 in clamav "Please update clamav to 0.95.3" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/473707
[14:39] <mathiaz> ScottK: great - thanks
[14:39] <mathiaz> no more bugs on the previous list. let's move on
[14:39] <mathiaz> the dapper nominated list is empty
[14:40] <mathiaz> as well as hardy
[14:40] <mathiaz> and intrepid
[14:40] <mathiaz> and jaunty
[14:40] <mathiaz> and there is a bunch of them for karmic
[14:40] <zul> url?
[14:41] <mathiaz> http://tinyurl.com/yz2y6cc
[14:41] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://tinyurl.com/yz2y6cc
[14:41] <mathiaz> kirkland: bug 404394
[14:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 404394 in kvm "qcow2 corruption regression" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/404394
[14:41] <mathiaz> which one should be accepted for SRU in karmic?
[14:41] <kirkland> mathiaz: this is not a bug in karmic
[14:42] <kirkland> mathiaz: this is fixed in karmic
[14:42] <kirkland> mathiaz: possibly needs to be SRUd to jaunty + hardy-backports and intrepid-backports
[14:42] <mathiaz> kirkland: could you update the bug status then?
[14:42] <kirkland> okay
[14:42] <mathiaz> smoser: bug 429169?
[14:42] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 429169 in vm-builder "vmbuider should Include kernel modules in AMIs for ec2" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/429169
[14:43] <mathiaz> zul: bug 286119?
[14:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 286119 in samba "firefox 3.0.3 crashes (no SIG) on most pages w/ images when using nss_wins: 8.10beta AMD64" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/286119
[14:43] <smoser> mathiaz, ? what did you want there?
[14:43] <mathiaz> it seems that the rest of the bugs are not SRU worthy
[14:44] <mathiaz> smoser: is it a valid bug for a Karmic SRU?
[14:44] <zul> mathiaz: it should be fixed for karmic but ill double check
[14:44] <soren> A lot of the vmbuilder bugs that were closed recently were really fixed a long time ago. I've tried to go through the list and find stuff that was already fixed, so a lot of these (if not all) will already be in Karmic.
[14:44] <smoser> thats what i was thikning. thanks soren.
[14:45] <soren> Well, sure :) Sorry I haven't kept the list groomed as we went along.
[14:46] <mathiaz> smoser: ok - i've declined the bug for karmic then
[14:48] <mathiaz> ok - anything else on sru worthy bugs?
[14:48] <mathiaz> bug 450044
[14:48] <nijaba> mathiaz: I proposed this one
[14:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 450044 in euca2ools "euca-bundle-vol does not create essential tmpfs mounts when bundling Ubuntu images" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/450044
[14:48] <mathiaz> nijaba: ^^?
[14:48] <nijaba> mathiaz: it will hit anyone trying to rebndle a vol
[14:48] <mathiaz> smoser: is there a fix for it already?
[14:49] <nijaba> mathiaz: it is marked as fixed by Neil Soman
[14:49] <smoser> mathiaz, i dont know anything about that  bug.
[14:50] <nijaba> mathiaz: the reproduction instrutions are in the duplicate bug attached to it
[14:50] <nijaba> bug #458542
[14:50] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 458542 in euca2ools "euca-bundle-vol creates unuseable image? (dup-of: 450044)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/458542
[14:50] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 450044 in euca2ools "euca-bundle-vol does not create essential tmpfs mounts when bundling Ubuntu images" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/450044
[14:51] <mathiaz> nijaba: ok - seems that it's SRU worthy if it breaks every rebundled image
[14:51] <nijaba> mathiaz: it does...
[14:52] <nijaba> and I think bug 470355 might be another duplicate
[14:52] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 470355 in eucalyptus "ec2-bundle-vol and ec2-upload-bundle result in non accepted manifest" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/470355
[14:52] <nijaba> but am unsure
[14:53] <mathiaz> nijaba: nominated/accepted for karmic
[14:53] <mathiaz> anything else to add on the potential SRU?
[14:53] <nijaba> mathiaz: thanks
[14:54] <smoser> i would highly doubt that 470355 is a dupe of 450044
[14:54] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:54] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:54] <mathiaz> This is the state of current assigned bug for SRU
[14:54] <smoser> you can (at least in ec2) bundle, upload, register *anything*. (seriously, i have registered /boot/config-2.6.31-10-generic)
[14:54] <mathiaz> the eucalyptus SRU is its way
[14:55] <mathiaz> kirkland: what about the qemu-kvm?
[14:55] <kirkland> mathiaz: it's in proposed
[14:55] <mathiaz> zul: and the other ones?
[14:55] <kirkland> mathiaz: all 3 bugs have been verification-done
[14:55] <mathiaz> zul: php samba net-snmp
[14:55] <kirkland> mathiaz: it's just incubating now
[14:55] <zul> mathiaz: i have to go through it today
[14:56] <mathiaz> zul: kirkland: great - things are rolling on the SRU front then
[14:56] <mathiaz> A reminder: we're trying to use package branches to handle the SRU process
[14:56] <mathiaz> https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+activereviews <- is where SRU proposal should show up in the end
[14:57] <mathiaz> zul: has sbeattie been involved in the SRU review process?
[14:57] <zul> mathiaz: yes he has he reviewed the ipsec-tools one
[14:57] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on then
[14:57] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[14:57] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[14:57] <mathiaz> anything else to add before we wrap up?
[14:58] <smoser> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/NamingConvention is what we're following for publishing builds to e
[14:58] <smoser> c2 at the moment.  Of particular note is the 'removal policy' I recently got this together, and its now (I hope) in place.
[14:58] <smoser> In short, 5 builds of each release/arch are kept in 'testing' (daily builds).  When a build 'falls off', it is made private for 30 days before deletion.  This policy covers kernels and ramdisks in '-testing' also.
[14:58] <smoser> and i've turned 'daily' builds of karmic into twice weekly
[14:58] <zul> what about hardy daily?
[14:58] <smoser> :)
[14:59] <smoser> i turned that on
[14:59] <smoser> and hopefully we'll have a reasonable hardy build in testing tonight
[14:59] <smoser> but it will not have kernel/ramdisk associated with it. there is work i have to do to make that happen.
[15:00] <mathiaz> smoser: is this all automated?
[15:00] <smoser> so all you ec2 fans that are sticking with hardy may have a nice gift soon.
[15:00] <smoser> mathiaz, :)
[15:00] <smoser> yes. i do not wake up every night and do it myself.
[15:00] <soren> Slacker.
[15:00] <soren> :p
[15:00] <zul> then how do you sleep?
[15:00] <mathiaz> smoser: glad to hear that! ;)
[15:01] <mathiaz> smoser: are you looking for feedback on the EC2 process or it was just an announcement?
[15:02] <smoser> https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-on-ec2/vmbuilder/automated-ec2-builds and https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-on-ec2/ubuntu-on-ec2/ec2-publishing-scripts
[15:02] <smoser> mathiaz, you're welcome to give feedback. i had sent to much smaller group rior to implementing it.
[15:03] <mathiaz> smoser: may be worth announcing on a blog
[15:03] <smoser> mathiaz, yeah.
[15:03] <mathiaz> great - anything else to add?
[15:04] <smoser> not here.
[15:04] <ScottK> Another topic for Lucid is spamassassin.
[15:04] <ScottK> They've gone over a year now without a new release.
[15:04] <smoser> but people should try our karmic builds on ec2. now at the low price of $0.085/hr.
[15:04] <mathiaz> ScottK: should we have a session about it at UDS?
[15:04] <ScottK> Do we leave it stale, switch to svn snapshot, is there something else that people use now?
[15:05] <zul> smoser: meh
[15:05] <ScottK> mathiaz: Yes, but we should do some investigation first.
[15:05] <smoser> if nothing else, the quick mirrors on ec2 are nice. downloads at > 10M/s
[15:05] <mathiaz> ScottK: agreed.
[15:06] <mathiaz> ScottK: registering a blueprint and starting a wiki page is the best way to go
[15:07]  * Daviey still has good hit success with repo spamassassin..
[15:07] <Daviey> Before considering upgrading to SVN snapshot, it would be well worth dicussing the issue with upstream IMO
[15:07] <ScottK> One thing we'll need if we switch to svn is someone who will pay close attention and test.
[15:08] <mathiaz> ok - time to wrap up as we're running out of time here
[15:08] <ScottK> Daviey: Are you interested in working on this?  Could you contact upstream?
[15:08] <Daviey> ScottK: wilco.
[15:08] <ScottK> Daviey: Thanks.
[15:08] <mathiaz> [ACTION] Daviey to investigate spamassassin status in lucid
[15:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to investigate spamassassin status in lucid
[15:08] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] # Agree on next meeting date and time
[15:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  # Agree on next meeting date and time
[15:08] <mathiaz> next week same time, same place?
[15:09] <Daviey> (whilst on this subject, can the fridge cal be updated?)
[15:10] <mathiaz> Daviey: right - there is still some disucssion about the new meeting time
[15:11] <mathiaz> may be worth waiting a bit
[15:11] <Daviey> mathiaz: sure, but the date has been wrong for a few weeks now :)
[15:11] <Daviey> it shouldn't take much for a fridge admin to update
[15:11] <mathiaz> Daviey: good pont.
[15:11] <mathiaz> Daviey: I'll take care of this.
[15:11] <Daviey> great, thanks :)
[15:11] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to update the fridge
[15:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to update the fridge
[15:12] <mathiaz> so - see you all same time, same place, next week
[15:12] <mathiaz> thanks for attending
[15:12] <Daviey> +1
[15:12] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[15:12] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 09:12.
</pre>
