{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
<pre>
[18:00] <ara> hey bdmurray
[18:00] <bdmurray> hi ara
[18:00] <davmor2> hello
[18:00] <pedro_> hello
[18:01] <ara> hi all
[18:05] <LaserJock> anybody around for QA Team meeting?
[18:05] <bdmurray> me ;)
[18:05] <ara> +1
[18:05] <LaserJock> no heno it seems, who's chairing?
[18:06] <intellectronica> hi
[18:07] <Mez> OHAI!
[18:07] <LaserJock> hola Mez
[18:08] <Mez> hola ;)
[18:08] <Mez> comos estas?
[18:08] <ara> the agenda seems empty. does anyone have any particular issues they want to rise?
[18:09] <LaserJock> Mez: bueno bueno
[18:09] <LaserJock> ara: I have one
[18:09] <LaserJock> I'm not sure if stgraber is around or not
[18:09] <LaserJock> but I was thinking it'd be cool to have a Global Testing Jam for Intrepid
[18:10] <LaserJock> I was thinking that it could be done for Beta
[18:11] <bdmurray> That seems a bit late to me
[18:11] <LaserJock> well, there is that
[18:11] <LaserJock> but I'm not sure if it'd work very well to do it on an Alpha
[18:11] <LaserJock> that's definitely a discussion point
[18:12] <LaserJock> my reasoning (which may be deeply flawed ;-) ) was that Beta is the  best chance of getting people to actually download the .isos
[18:13] <LaserJock> bdmurray: would Alpha 6 be better do you think?
[18:15] <bdmurray> LaserJock: or Alpha 5 something well before the kernel freeze as we'll benefit most from testing a wide variety of hardware
[18:16] <LaserJock> alpha 6 is 1 month before kernel freeze
[18:16] <ara_> #join #ubuntu-testing
[18:16] <LaserJock> alpha 5 would give use 3 weeks to get it set up
[18:17] <bdmurray> ogasawara: when do you think would be best?
[18:18] <LaserJock> we could do 2 I suppose, one for alpha 5 and at beta
[18:18] <ogasawara> bdmurray: the earlier before kernel freeze the better
[18:18] <LaserJock> that would be about 1 month inbetween if we did that
[18:19] <LaserJock> but in general, does the idea sound good?
[18:19] <LaserJock> seems like the Bug Jam was pretty successful and we need to get more people involved in the idea of pre-release testing
[18:20] <bdmurray> I think having more hardware tested via testing jam sounds reasonable
[18:20] <ogasawara> +1
[18:20] <LaserJock> agreed, that does seem to be a pain point
[18:21] <LaserJock> a lot of testing is being done via VMs
[18:21] <LaserJock> it'd be nice to see a spread of real hardware
=== johnc4511 is now known as johnc4510
[18:22] <LaserJock> anybody want to lead the charge on it? :-)
[18:22] <LaserJock> I talked to stgraber a bit about the idea a week or so ago and he liked it but I'm not sure if he has time to set it all up
[18:25] <LaserJock> I guess the main tasks will be 1) getting in touch with LoCos to get it set up 2) making sure there's enough good documentation on testing and what to do once you find a bug
[18:25] <tuxmaniac> I am not sure whether I can speak in this meeting. But dont you think most people will not be interested in moving to Intrepid until release on their production machines? And not all will have the liberty of having testing machines. Sorry for interupting if it is not to be done
[18:25] <bdmurray> tuxmaniac: A lot of testing can be done just using a Live CD
[18:26] <LaserJock> tuxmaniac: np, but for sure yes
[18:26] <LaserJock> we're not trying to get people to run Intrepid on their production machines
[18:26] <LaserJock> but my hope was that with a Global Testing Jam people could bring spare machines and have a day of testing fun
[18:27] <tuxmaniac> bdmurray: aah ok. that is very very much possible
[18:27] <tuxmaniac> LaserJock: ok
[18:27] <LaserJock> some might want to jump in on Intrepid (that's one reason I like Beta)
[18:27] <LaserJock> so it's almost like a Install Fest, but more focused on finding bugs :-)
[18:27] <bdmurray> I think we have alot more people running Intrepid than we expect
[18:28] <LaserJock> bdmurray: do we have any numbers on that? it'd be interesting to get some even rough numbers
[18:29] <bdmurray> LaserJock: not that I'm immediately aware of but I could query the database for unique users reporting bugs with Intrepid in the description
[18:29] <LaserJock> we certainly don't have as much as the stable/unstable case in Debian, but perhaps it's more than one would think
[18:30] <tuxmaniac> adding a point. I think LoCos can give some info in that too. Collect locally info on who all are running intrepid and provide that on a wiki page or to some contact?
[18:30] <pedro_> Ara is having some connection issues, she'll be back soon
[18:31] <davmor2> bdmurray: I think a lot of people might of stayed with hardy especially if they need a machine that works
[18:31] <LaserJock> davmor2: although I've seen a few reports of people jumping to Intrepid because of Hardy
[18:32] <LaserJock> but that's probably not a very significant percentage
[18:32] <bdmurray> Anyway, I think we are moving a bit off topic here.  It sounds like a testing jam would be a good idea
[18:32] <LaserJock> in any case, we clearly have a lack of .iso testing
[18:33] <LaserJock> ok, I'll start a thread on ubuntu-qa on it then?
[18:33] <bdmurray> Sounds good, I'd like to hear on the community team went about contacting locos
[18:34] <LaserJock> How's the status of the Intrepid specs?
[18:35]  * LaserJock waits forever for the wiki page to show up
[18:36]  * stgraber waves
[18:36] <LaserJock> stgraber!
[18:37] <LaserJock> could we just run down the Roadmap and see where everybody is at?
[18:38] <LaserJock> bdmurray: useful-bug-metrics?
[18:38] <bdmurray> LaserJock: that one still needs some work
[18:39] <LaserJock> bdmurray: just in implementation, the design is finalized?
[18:39] <bdmurray> LaserJock: right, and Launcpad is also missing some data for very old bugs
[18:40] <LaserJock> ah
[18:40] <LaserJock> I'm pretty excited about that spec, that data will be quite useful I think
[18:40] <bdmurray> Absolutely
[18:41] <LaserJock> ogasawara: how is package-status-pages coming? seems like a lot has been implemented
[18:41] <bdmurray> ogasawara: The kernel bug migration is finished right?
[18:42] <ogasawara> LaserJock: we've done a lot with the package-status-pages.  stgraber was awesome getting it set up on the staging qa.ubuntu.com site.  now I just need to find time to generate additional xml files for additional packages and knocking out some of the feature requests
[18:42] <ogasawara> bdmurray: yes, kernel bug migration was completed as of Monday
[18:42] <LaserJock> ogasawara: awesome
[18:42] <stgraber> ogasawara: just tell me when you are ready to have pkgstatus put on the production website and I'll work on a qawebsite update including it
[18:43] <ogasawara> stgraber: sweet.  Yah I'd like to test everything works when I create additional xml files etc first
[18:43] <LaserJock> cgregan: how's mobile-automated-tests going?
[18:44] <cgregan> ﻿LaserJock: Slowly.....
[18:44] <cgregan> I'm one tester for 6-7 individual projects
[18:44] <cgregan> Not a lot of time for other things...unfortunately
[18:44] <LaserJock> cgregan: ok, so what can we do to help?
[18:45] <LaserJock> are there any "bitesize" tasks that'd free you up for other things?
[18:45] <cgregan> ﻿LaserJock: If someone could take a look at the case Ara has produced and see what is relevant to UME. That would be great!
[18:46] <LaserJock> cgregan: could you just send a quick email on that to ubuntu-qa?
[18:46] <cgregan> ﻿LaserJock: Sure
[18:46] <LaserJock> great
[18:47] <LaserJock> cgregan: and any other tasks that somebody who's not deeply involved in your work could help out with ;-)
[18:47] <cgregan> There will also be some work for Ubuntu Netbook Remis soon
[18:48] <cgregan> Remix
[18:48] <LaserJock> stgraber: how goes the qa-website spec?
[18:48] <persia> That may be harder to coordinate directly.
[18:48] <cgregan> I'm porting some cases over to a new area now
[18:48] <stgraber> LaserJock: I need to recontact the Launchpad/Canonical sysadmins guys to have a copy of our website running with Drupal+OpenID enabled
[18:49] <LaserJock> sbeattie: around?
[18:49] <stgraber> ideally we'd like to do that after the upgrade to Hardy I requested last week
[18:49] <sbeattie> LaserJock: yep
[18:49] <cgregan> ﻿LaserJock: I can also send an email to QA email when I have something worth looking at
[18:50] <LaserJock> sbeattie: what is needed to finish off to fix-validation-tracking ?
[18:50] <LaserJock> cgregan: sounds great
[18:51] <LaserJock> So I put the specs on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/RoadMap along with a list of Intrepid Tasks
[18:52] <LaserJock> the Tasks are to list stuff that either hasn't been spec'd yet or that doesn't really need a formal spec, but that we still want to do and is worth some priority
=== johnc4511 is now known as johnc4510
[18:52] <LaserJock> I added a few but I'd like to have people add to it things they plan on doing within QA for Intrepid
[18:53] <sbeattie> LaserJock: not a whole lot, I need to make the page I generate report against universe, and generally sync up more with pitti's sru script.
[18:53] <LaserJock> sbeattie: ok, I think I'll have some time to help with that a bit too
[18:54] <LaserJock> I need to get back into sru-tools
[18:54] <sbeattie> I also need to go back and pull out historical data/testcases
[18:54] <sbeattie> LaserJock: that'd be great.
[18:55] <LaserJock> sbeattie: perhaps we should talk to ubuntuwire.com about hosting all that?
[18:55] <sbeattie> if you want, I'm agnostic as to where it gets hosted.
[18:55] <LaserJock> right now I have a branch for qa.ubuntuwire.com/sru
[18:55] <LaserJock> k, we can talk about that later
[18:56] <LaserJock> alright, any more issues?
[18:56] <LaserJock> going once ...
[18:57] <LaserJock> twice ...
[18:57] <LaserJock> OK, I guess we'll call that the end of the meeting
[18:57]  * LaserJock rings the gong
[18:57] <LaserJock> thanks everybody for showing up!
</pre>
