{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''6th''' meeting of the ServerTeam, starting at 15:00 UTC and finishing at 16:14 UTC

== Agenda ==

Items we will be discussing:

* Present and discuss <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/HardyIdeaPool]]</nowiki> page - <nowiki>[[dendrobates|RickClark]]</nowiki>
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review each section of the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.
* Discuss beta iso testing. [ https://iso.qa.stgraber.org/qatracker/ ]

== Minutes ==

==== Present and discuss ServerTeam/HardyIdeaPool page ====

dendrobates announced the creation of the ServerTeam/HardyIdeaPool wiki page as a way to keep track of suggestions for HardyHeron in the server area. Everybody is welcomed to add short ideas to this page.

The ideas will be used to plan discussions during the next Ubuntu Developer Summit.

'''ACTION''': dendrobates will send an email to ubuntu-server to ask more input from users and advertise the ServerTeam/HardyIdeaPool page.

==== Review of previous meeting action items ====

mathiaz said that TeamReporting has been setup with the help of dantalizing and that the ServerTeam has a section in the monthly report.

soren gave a quick update about the new tasksel tasks: print-server, samba-server, postgresql-server and mail-server were added to the ubuntu-server cd. dendrobates mentioned that testcases need to be written to cover these new tasks and added to the iso tracker.

soren gave an update about the official MTA in Ubuntu. It was agreed that settling on a default mta is a good idea and also that it should be postfix. We probably won't change packages to *only* change that, but if we're changing a package (and hence carrying a delta to Debian) we'll do it. Also, we'll try to convince Debian to do the same. Technically, it'll be done by adding a meta package called something like default-mail-transport-agent, which will be prepended each time something depends on m-t-a. default-mail-transport-agent will then in Ubuntu depend on postfix. Debian might choose exim4. 

'''ACTION''': soren will send an email on debian-devel about the change.

==== Roadmap review ====

===== Triagger corner =====

mathiaz went through samba bugs. He also mentioned that the automatic expiring feature in LP highlighted the fact that we still haven't gone through all bugs in packages and that further work is needed in triagging bugs related to ubuntu-server.

===== Tester corner =====

A beta version of ubuntu-server will be released this coming Thursday. Testing of pre-beta isos started.

'''ACTION''': mathiaz will send an email to ubuntu-server to ask about iso testers.

===== Documentor corner =====

sommer and pschulz01 did some great work in reviewing the server guide. They have a list of improvements, however it's too late for Gusty since there is a Freeze for documentation. mathiaz suggested to add a section in ServerTeam/HardyIdeaPool about documentation.

mathiaz also clarified that the community documentation in not frozen and wiki pages under help.ubuntu.com/community/ can still be edited and improved for Gutsy.

===== Developer corner =====

mathiaz gave an update about AppArmor. The new kernel module has been uploaded and he is happy about the state of apparmor. keescook is also satisfied with the state of AppArmor in Gutsy.

dendrobates announced that libpam-ldap and libnss-ldap have been accepted into main and are in the seed. As a result ldap-client-config and auth-client-config are in Gutsy and ldap authentication is officially supported.

==== AOB ====

mathiaz brought up the subject of having more frequent ubuntu server team meeting. No decision has been taken.

'''ACTION''': nijaba will send an email to ubuntu-server about this issue.

==== Next meeting ====

The next Ubuntu Server Team meeting will be on Tuesday, October the 9th, at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
05:04	dendrobates	ok lets go.
05:04	dendrobates	Who is here?
=== mathiaz still hasn't moved from his position
=== keescook is here
=== jdstrand is here
=== nealmcb is here
05:05	dendrobates	Is this anyones first server meeting?
=== sommer here as well
=== dthacker is here first meeting
=== freeflying is the first time
05:06	dendrobates	hi dthacker freeflying.  Welcome.
=== nijaba [n=nbarcet@unaffiliated/nijaba] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:06	dendrobates	The first topic is: Present and discuss ServerTeam/HardyIdeaPool page
05:07	nealmcb	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/HardyIdeaPool
05:07	dendrobates	It is time to start gathering ideas for the next release.
05:07	dendrobates	I encourage everyone to think about what they would like done in Ubuntu Server
05:08	freeflying	dendrobates: how about groupware-server now
05:08	dendrobates	and add it to the page nealmcb so kindly posted.
05:08	nealmcb	:-)
05:09	nealmcb	I added a number of See Also links there, and also a link to every existing spec that is subscribed to by at least three server team members, or two members and the team itself.  That should make it easy to grab some existing specs that you might want to spruce up and nominate for Hardy and put in in one of the categories higher up on the page.
05:09	dendrobates	We will use the ideas on this page to plan the UDS discussions.
=== coffeedude [n=AD\gcart@216.254.62.194] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:09	nealmcb	and also remind us of specs that need to be marked as done, obsolete or superceded
05:10	mathiaz	nealmcb: did you compute the list of subscribed blueprints by hand ?
=== tonyy [n=anthony@ubuntu/member/tonyyarusso] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:10	dendrobates	Any questions about the Ideapool wiki?
05:10	nealmcb	mathiaz: I munged the html page, and asked the launchpad folks for some xml or text output options :-(
=== l_ [n=l_@mix.mmjgroup.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:11	dendrobates	freeflying: add your ideas to the wiki, I think that is a good idea.
05:11	nealmcb	I also tried drawing a graph with graphwiz, but it doesn't help much....
=== RobV [n=robert@89.100.132.29] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:11	mathiaz	I'm thinking about sending a email to ubuntu-server to present the IdeaPool wiki page.
05:11	mathiaz	And ask people to add their ideas there.
05:12	ogra	mathiaz, you revived it ? yay
05:12	nealmcb	mathiaz: I talked about it in my mail last night
05:12	ogra	s/revived/reanimated/
05:12	dendrobates	mathiaz: that is a good idea, it reaches a lot more people.
05:12	mathiaz	ogra: it has already existed ?
05:12	ogra	mathiaz, yep, dholbach created it two years ago
05:13	mathiaz	ogra: I haven't seen anything specific for the ServerTeam.
05:13	ogra	and it quickly became a mess
05:13	ogra	since nobody looked after it and people just added and added stuff
05:13	mathiaz	ogra: you're refering to IdeaPool, the big wiki page.
05:13	ogra	yeah
05:13	mathiaz	ogra: yeah - I've seen it to. Let's hope it won't end up in the same state.
05:14	nijaba	we are focusing on server ideas here, and only for Hardy
05:14	ogra	ah, youre plannng a subpage somewhere ? ...
05:14	dendrobates	mathiaz: I'll post to the mailing list asking for input.
05:14	mathiaz	We're just focusing on ideas for Hardy.
05:14	nijaba	so it is time bombed
05:14	mathiaz	dendrobates: ok.
05:14	ogra	nijaba, as long as someone looks after it all is fine i think :)
05:14	nijaba	ogra: we'll make ure we do
05:14	mathiaz	dendrobates: I think you should mention that people can reply to the mail also, and you could collect idea for the wiki pages.
05:15	dendrobates	good idea.
05:15	nijaba	s/ure/sure/
05:15	dthacker	Is there a list of new specs implemented for Gutsy, I could use that to do some housecleaning.
05:15	nealmcb	wow - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IdeaPool sure is a mess :-)  I like the idea in HardyIdeaPool of just one line per idea, with links to blueprints
05:15	mathiaz	It may start a big thread, but someone has to track all the ideas and organise them somehow.
05:15	dendrobates	next topic
05:15	dendrobates	previous Action items.
=== ds500ss [n=marcel@vrs-c-16f6f.adsl.wanadoo.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== ds500ss [n=marcel@vrs-c-16f6f.adsl.wanadoo.nl] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
05:16	mathiaz	dthacker: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy
05:16	dendrobates	mathiaz: since I was not attending, can you  go through the open items?
=== tonyyarusso [n=anthony@ubuntu/member/tonyyarusso] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:17	mathiaz	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20070911
05:17	mathiaz	we've setup the TeamReporting infrastructure. And there is a section about the ServerTeam in the monthly report.
05:17	nealmcb	thanks
05:18	mathiaz	we currently take the minutes of the ServerTeam meeting and add them to the report.
05:18	dendrobates	mathiaz: did you get community help?
05:18	mathiaz	dendrobates: yes. from dantalizing.
05:18	dendrobates	great!
05:19	mathiaz	we aggreed that he'll update the team report page according to the minutes I sent from the serverteam meeting.
05:19	dendrobates	nealmcb: I believe I saw your spec tracking email go out.
05:19	nealmcb	yup
05:19	nealmcb	I also added a section to the roadmap
05:20	mathiaz	nealmcb: great ! Thanks.
05:20	dendrobates	soren: can you update us on the tasksel tasks?
05:20	soren	dendrobates: Sure.
05:20	nealmcb	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap#blueprint
05:20	soren	I haven't actually looked at the dailies or the beta ISO's, but I believe the new tasks should be rolled into them.
05:20	dendrobates	soren: they are.
05:21	soren	\o/
05:21	soren	They're not completely locked down, but now they're there, and ready for testing.
05:21	soren	If we can agree on changes, that's fine, I think.
05:22	dendrobates	speaking of testing, we need to add a test to isotracker for each new task.
05:22	dendrobates	unless that has been done already.
05:22	mathiaz	we also need to specify the testcases.
05:22	ogra	dendrobates, heno and stgraber usually do that if you tell them the version
05:23	dendrobates	I think we will have to provide the testing instructions, though.
05:23	mathiaz	dendrobates: yop.
05:23	mathiaz	dendrobates: do you have admin rights on isotesting ?
05:23	dendrobates	I some admin rights, but no knowledge.
05:24	jdstrand	I can verify that I already have a list of things to do from heno for amd64 server ISO testing
05:24	mathiaz	dendrobates: you may be able to add new testcases then, with a link to the wiki page describing the test.
05:24	dendrobates	I will contact heno and make sure.
05:24	jdstrand	s/I can verify that//
05:24	dendrobates	ok, jdstrand you can do it.
=== juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:25	dendrobates	soren's email about an official MTA generated some discussion.
05:25	jdstrand	dendrobates: I am not sure what I just signed up for.  I was trying to say that heno already contacted me about doing ISO testing
05:26	dendrobates	soren: would you cae to summarize.
05:26	soren	Yes. I've yet to sent the e-mail to debian-devel, but it's in the works.
05:26	soren	Sure.
05:26	dendrobates	jdstrand: I'll take care of it.
=== pschulz01 [n=pschulz0@ubuntu/member/pschulz01] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:26	mathiaz	jdstrand: did you create an account on isotesting ?
05:26	jdstrand	mathiaz: yes
=== pschulz01 missed the meeting call in #ubuntu-server.
05:27	mathiaz	jdstrand: so you've been subscribed to a series of testcases.
05:27	soren	We agreed that settling on a default mta is a good idea and also that it should be postfix. We probably will not change packages to *only* change that, but if we're changing a package (and hence carrying a delta to Debian) we'll do it. Also, we'll try to convince Debian to do the same.
=== Mez_ [n=Mez@ubuntu/member/mez] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:27	soren	Technically, it'll be done by adding a meta package called something like default-mail-transport-agent, which will be prepended each time something depends on m-t-a.
05:27	jdstrand	mathiaz: I got an email from heno asking me to do so.  heno and I talked on IRC about what I could do.  We agreed, then got an email this morning
05:28	soren	default-mail-transport-agent will then in Ubuntu depend on postfix. Debian might choose exim4.
05:29	dendrobates	great and mdz seemed happy that you were addressing this issue.
=== illovae_ [n=illovae@unaffiliated/illovae] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:29	nealmcb	sounds like a good, flexible solution
05:30	freeflying	soren: it should depends on postfix | exim4, but not only on postfix
05:30	soren	freeflying: Yes. Only postfix.
05:30	soren	freeflying: A package that needs an m-t-a will depend on:
05:30	soren	Depends: default-mail-transport-agent |  mail-transport-agent
05:31	soren	Each of postfix, exim4, msmtp-mta, sendmail, qmail, etc... will "Provides: mail-tranport-agent"
05:31	soren	default-mail-transport-agent will depend on postfix.
05:31	Mithrandir	well, they already do the latter.
05:31	Mithrandir	except without the typo
05:31	soren	That makes any m-t-a fulfill the dependency, but postfix be the preferred one.
05:31	soren	Mithrandir: :p
05:31	soren	Mithrandir: Right.
05:31	dendrobates	soren: what gives you the feeling that Debian might choose exim4?
05:32	soren	dendrobates: That at laeast used to be the default mta in debian.
05:32	Mithrandir	they've historically preferred exim, but there's a fairly large contigent of postfix lovers there too
=== soren hasn't used Debian for a few years..
05:32	soren	Mithrandir: They don't install an mta by default anymore?
05:33	Mithrandir	soren: I can't remember; I tend to explicitly install exim myself.
05:33	soren	Yeah. I like exim, too :)
05:33	Mithrandir	(well, exim4, not exim)
05:34	freeflying	soren: in sid, they will not install exim defaultly
05:34	dendrobates	well I think it is settled, we will default to postfix, and soren will broach the subject with Debian.
05:34	dendrobates	that is the last of the action items.
05:35	dendrobates	next is the roadmap. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
05:35	lamont	soren: I'm happy to help you with uploading the default-mail-transport-agent package, if you need
05:35	dendrobates	I noticed mathiaz has triaged about 15 million samba bugs.
=== nealmcb cheers for mathiaz!
05:36	soren	lamont: In Debian, you mean?
05:36	lamont	yes
=== mralphabet [n=username@71-10-125-165.dhcp.stpt.wi.charter.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:36	soren	lamont: Cool.
=== soren hugs mathiaz
05:36	lamont	'twould be funny for me to own an exim-depending package for a while...
05:36	nealmcb	mathiaz: only launchpad has you beat :-(  but they fixed that I guess :-)
=== mathiaz only started to look at the bugs... At some they'll have to be fixed
05:37	mathiaz	nealmcb: yeah. The auto-expiring feature has been disabled I think.
05:38	dendrobates	mathiaz: anything you want to say about triaging corner?
05:38	mathiaz	not really.
05:38	mathiaz	just that we still need to have a look at the bugs.
05:39	dendrobates	I think packaging is done as well.
05:39	mathiaz	when I've received the expiring mails I was surprised  and thought that we even had a look at the bugs to see whether they're valid or not.
05:39	mathiaz	that means we still need to go through the bugs and see which are relevant.
05:40	dendrobates	Testing: we need as much testing of the beta as possible.
05:40	mathiaz	especially on server-type hardware.
05:40	dendrobates	I encourage everyone to signup at https://iso.qa.stgraber.org/qatracker/
05:41	dendrobates	and do as many tests as possible.  We especially need sparc testers.
05:41	pschulz01	dendrobates: Is there a sparc release?
05:41	mathiaz	if anyone has access to server hardware (from dell, ibm, hp, etc...) could you please test the server iso ?
05:41	dendrobates	yes
05:42	dendrobates	mathiaz: can you post to the mailing list asking for testers?
05:42	mathiaz	dendrobates: I was wondering when I should do that ?
05:42	mathiaz	dendrobates: for the pre-beta or once beta has been announced ?
05:43	dendrobates	I was thinking of that as well.  we should get heno's opinion.
05:43	dendrobates	documentation:
05:44	dendrobates	any updates?
05:44	pschulz01	dendrobates: Yes!
05:44	dendrobates	pschulz01: go ahead.
05:44	pschulz01	dendrobates: I only started this evening, while waiting..  but..
05:44	pschulz01	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PaulSchulz/UbuntuServerDocumentationReview
05:45	sommer	I added some of the sections I worked on to the ServerTeam Roadmap Documentor section
05:45	mathiaz	pschulz01: so these are the notes about the current server guide ?
05:45	dendrobates	sommer: thanks.
05:45	pschulz01	sommer: You made a good start.,..
05:45	mathiaz	pschulz01: isn't it too late to make such changes ?
05:46	nijaba	pschulz01: could we add  section in the guide on how to set up thin clients ?
05:46	pschulz01	mathiaz: Yes. I'm sucking down the documentation svn as we speak..
05:46	mathiaz	pschulz01: I think there is a Freeze for the documentation as of now.
05:46	pschulz01	mathiaz: Oh well..
05:46	mathiaz	nijaba: I think it would be a good idea, but too late for gutsy.
05:46	pschulz01	mathiaz: I'll have patches.
05:46	sommer	One of my Hardy ideas to update the Server section before the freeze.
05:47	nijaba	mathiaz: for hardy, then
05:47	mathiaz	nijaba: yes.
05:47	dendrobates	but not community documentation, right.
05:47	nijaba	mathiaz: cause we are mentioning it on he server cd jacket
05:47	mathiaz	sommer: yes. You can add a documentation section in the HardyIdeaPool
05:47	nealmcb	I threw a bit of text in the wiki for some of the missing ubotu factoids, but some more links to relevant documentation pages would also be good. Then need to get them into the database.   And I keep watching for missing topics.
05:48	dendrobates	nijaba: in my opinion it is mentioned too much. on the web page as well.
05:48	mathiaz	dendrobates: by community you mean the wiki at help.ubuntu.com/community %
05:48	pschulz01	mathiaz: One of my other ideas is here.. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PaulSchulz/UbuntuServerDocumentation
05:48	pschulz01	mathiaz: 'micro-manuals'
05:48	sommer	mathiaz: will do
05:48	dendrobates	mathiaz: yes we can add docs there, right.
05:48	dendrobates	that might be all we can do for Gutsy.
05:48	mathiaz	pschulz01: I suggest you add your ideas to the HardyIdeaPool and then create a blueprint.
05:48	pschulz01	mathiaz: Ok.
05:48	mathiaz	dendrobates: yes. community wiki is not frozen.
05:49	dendrobates	so if we are missing import docs, add them there.
05:49	mathiaz	dendrobates: the server guide is frozen so that translator can work on it.
05:49	dendrobates	important.
05:50	dendrobates	ok can we move to development?
=== pschulz01 goes woot... I now have entire doc tree,
05:50	dendrobates	mathiaz: AppArmor update?
05:51	mathiaz	we're back on track. the kernel module has been updated.
05:51	keescook	\o/
05:51	mathiaz	we've started to see bug reports about profiles, so people are using it.
05:52	mathiaz	I'm quite happy with the current state. keescook ?
05:52	keescook	yeah, it's looking good.  the delay in getting the new kernel module set us back, but I think we're in good shape now.
05:52	keescook	I too have some abstraction tweaks for post-beta.
05:53	mathiaz	we won't ship a profile for dhclient3
05:53	mathiaz	but cupsys will have one
=== Mez__ [n=Mez@5ac51c4b.bb.sky.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:53	nealmcb	is there a way for folks to share profiles and stuff like that?  (knows little about apparmor...)
05:53	dendrobates	I am happy to announce the libpam-ldap and libnss-ldap have been accepted into main and are in the seed.
05:53	keescook	has pitti looked at cupsys web UI issues?
05:53	mathiaz	nealmcb: yes. upstream has a repository
05:54	keescook	mathiaz: is there docs on how to use the shared repo?  I'd like to submit a few of mine
05:54	mathiaz	keescook: I don't think so. He was busy playing RM
05:54	keescook	okay
05:54	mathiaz	keescook: not that I know of. I think their dns is not setup correctly.
05:54	nealmcb	dendrobates: cool - thanks
05:55	mathiaz	keescook: hum.. it is: http://apparmor.opensuse.org/
05:55	dendrobates	so ldap-client-config and auth-client-config are in Gutsy.
=== jdstrand cheers *hooray*
=== mdz [n=mdz@adsl-75-20-204-164.dsl.pltn13.sbcglobal.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== lbm [n=lbm@0x555373ab.adsl.cybercity.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:55	dendrobates	it has been a long time coming in my opinion.
=== nijaba yeeeppee
=== pschulz01 goes woot!
05:56	nealmcb	this is a good time for folks to update the blueprints related to these successes....
05:56	dendrobates	we have already discussed hardy planning, so the last few minutes are open.
05:57	dendrobates	anyone have anything?
05:57	mathiaz	do we need meetings more often ?
05:57	pschulz01	mathiaz: Have added 'micro-manual' to HardyIdeaPool.
05:57	mathiaz	or is every two weeks enough ?
05:57	dendrobates	good question, with Hardy coming up, maybe
05:58	sommer	I have a quick documentor section question, would it be better to create a page like pschulz01 did and link it from the RoadMap page?
05:58	dendrobates	lets continue like this, every two weeks, until there is a need.  perhaps after
05:58	dendrobates	uds
=== nealmcb I think given the need to review and drive specs, and the bug work, etc it would be useful to meet weekly
05:59	nealmcb	uds is in just one month...
05:59	dendrobates	any other opinions?
05:59	soren	We alternate this slot with the kernel team.
05:59	pschulz01	sommer: I just did that as I didn't want to step on anyones toes.
06:00	nealmcb	ajmitch has expressed interest in a different time slot from time to time
06:00	soren	We'd need another timeslot every other week.
06:00	sommer	pschulz01: I think it makes great sense, less clutter on the RoadMap page.
06:00	dendrobates	we would have to choose a different time, perhaps earlier, for our European friends.
06:00	mathiaz	yes. That would help folks in asia.
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:ubotu] : Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 25 Sep 16:00 UTC: Kernel Team | 25 Sep 19:00 UTC: Technical Board | 26 Sep 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 27 Sep 12:00 UTC: Desktop Team Development | 27 Sep 15:00 UTC: Community Council meeting
=== pschulz01 would appriciate another time slot.
06:01	nealmcb	what would  0100 UTC be like?  on alternate weeks??
06:01	mathiaz	dendrobates: you'd do it earlier ? I don't think it would help aussie
06:01	soren	That's 3 AM here.
06:02	soren	Of course you could have a meeting without me.
06:02	dendrobates	we should take this up on the mailing list.
=== nealmcb nods
06:03	dendrobates	there might be other who could not attend at this time that have a preference.
=== Mrfai [n=lange@kueppers.informatik.uni-koeln.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:03	mathiaz	dendrobates: I aggree.
06:04	dendrobates	any volunteers to start te conversation on the mailing list?
06:04	nealmcb	does launchpad have a way to plot folks' timezones?
=== nijaba raises his hand
06:04	dendrobates	ok nijaba, go ahead.
=== nijaba will o
06:05	dendrobates	we are out of time folks.  Good meeting.
06:05	nealmcb	thanks folks
06:05	mathiaz	nealmcb: nope. But keescook has a good website that does that.
06:06	keescook	timeanddate.com!
06:06	keescook	the "Meeting Planner" on there is great.
06:06	mathiaz	thanks.
=== Mrfai [n=lange@kueppers.informatik.uni-koeln.de] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
06:06	nealmcb	mathiaz: yeah.  I'm mostly looking for something that will take an existing team with known timezones and help people guess about good time
06:06	mathiaz	so next meeting in two weeks, same place, same time.
06:07	mathiaz	nealmcb: that would be great. You should file a bug about it.
=== nealmcb surfs
=== nealmcb nods
06:08	pschulz01	mathiaz: Blueprint is here -> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/micro-manuals
06:09	dendrobates	bye everyone
06:09	mathiaz	pschulz01: seems great. But you should try to follow the SpecSpec template in the wiki page.
06:09	sommer	thanks all...later on
06:09	pschulz01	mathiaz: URL?
=== sommer [n=sommer@192.154.64.85] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
06:09	pschulz01	mathiaz: Just SpecSpec?
=== tehk [n=tehk@c-69-249-157-157.hsd1.nj.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:10	mathiaz	pschulz01: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeatureSpecifications
06:10	mathiaz	pschulz01: explains the whole process.
06:10	pschulz01	mathiaz: Ta.
06:10	mathiaz	pschulz01: np.
06:11	mathiaz	Thanks all
=== mathiaz [n=mathiaz@ubuntu/member/mathiaz] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
06:14	nealmcb	rats - the foaf/xml output from launchpad doesn't include the timezone...  https://edge.launchpad.net/~nealmcb/+rdf 
</pre>

----
CategoryScribesTeam CategoryTemplate
