{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** NONE
* W Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* NGINX in Ubuntu: Course of Action discussion (teward)
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2015-June/007072.html
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

===== Meeting Actions =====

* rharper to follow up with canonical sysadmins on  http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server WPOD
* smoser update Topic blueprint URLs, if necessary
* hallyn to see if rbasak is willing to take this (nginx version in 15.10 and looking to 16.04)  to release team, if not hallyn to volunteer, to come up with options

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 23rd at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 16 16:02:18 2015 UTC.  The chair is arosales. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:02] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:02] <beisner> o/
[16:02] <arosales> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02]  * arosales doesn't see any action items from the previous meeting
[16:02] <arosales> #topic Vivid Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Vivid Development
[16:03] <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
[16:03] <arosales> #info Alpha 1 coming up June 25
[16:03] <coreycb> o/
[16:03] <arosales> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:04] <arosales> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:04]  * arosales trying to pull up http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server . . . 
[16:04] <arosales> is that URL working for others?
[16:04] <teward> arosales: site death perhaps, the white page of death
[16:04] <teward> oh wait
[16:05] <rharper> \o
[16:05] <teward> nope
[16:05] <teward> wpod, still, arosales
[16:05] <teward> i think it's down
[16:05] <arosales> just whit page for me
[16:05] <caribou> wpod for me
[16:05] <arosales> *white
[16:05] <beisner> :-/  0k file
[16:05] <teward> arosales: codenamed: "White Page Of Death" - WPOD
[16:05] <teward> contact canonical sysadmins for fixing?
[16:05] <rharper> beisner: indeed
[16:05] <arosales> teward, ack, WPOD it seems
[16:05] <arosales> rharper, can you take that action?
[16:06] <rharper> arosales: sure
[16:06] <arosales> #action rharper to follow up with canonical sysadmins on  http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server WPOD
[16:06] <meetingology> ACTION: rharper to follow up with canonical sysadmins on  http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server WPOD
[16:06] <arosales> thanks rharper
[16:06] <arosales> any bugs folks would like to discuss before moving on
[16:07] <arosales> I'll take it folks are ready for BPs then
[16:07] <arosales> . . .
[16:07] <arosales> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:07] <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-w/group/topic-w-server.html
[16:07] <arosales> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-w/group/topic-w-server.html   not working for me either today
[16:08] <teward> arosales: confirmed, 404.
[16:08] <arosales> we have http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-w/group/topic-w-openstack.html
[16:08] <arosales> but not server
[16:08] <arosales> rharper, smoser: do you guys have a topic BP?
[16:09] <smoser> checking. i dont think we probably do.
[16:10] <smoser> or i do not think we do
[16:10] <matsubara> arosales, http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-w/canonical-server.html and http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-w/ubuntu-server.html might give a better overview of server BPs
[16:10] <matsubara> since the topic url is not working...
[16:11] <arosales> matsubara, ok, do folks agree here we should update the meeting commands to these links?
[16:11]  * matsubara doesn't really know what's more appropriate in this case
[16:11] <arosales> #action smoser update Topic blueprint URLs, if necessary
[16:11] <meetingology> ACTION: smoser update Topic blueprint URLs, if necessary
[16:12] <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-w/canonical-server.html
[16:12] <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-w-openstack-liberty progressing
[16:13] <arosales> sorry
[16:13] <arosales> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-w-openstack-liberty
[16:13] <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-w/ubuntu-server.html
[16:13] <arosales> same blueprint there
[16:14] <arosales> and as said before servercloud-w-openstack-liberty is progressing
[16:14] <arosales> but seems there should be some other BPs there . .  .
[16:14] <arosales> smoser, jamespage need to follow up if the correct BPs are linked  ^
[16:15] <arosales> perhaps because https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-w-server is blank atm ?
[16:15] <arosales> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-w-server
[16:15] <arosales> in any case an action item is made to follow up.
[16:16] <arosales> Ping here if folks have any BPs items they would like to surface
[16:16] <arosales> . . .
[16:16] <arosales> moving on
[16:16] <arosales> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:16] <caribou> nothing major to me; mostly done with rsyslog merge
[16:16] <arosales> caribou, thanks for the update
[16:16] <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:16] <matsubara> arosales, nothing new to report
[16:17] <arosales> matsubara, ok, thanks
[16:17] <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:17] <smb> I have nothing today if nobody else has anything.
[16:17] <arosales> any questions for smb (kernel)?
[16:17] <arosales> . . .
[16:17] <arosales> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:18] <arosales> If any folks are interested in Spark. I am currently at Spark Summit and we'll be hosting an even tonight
[16:18] <arosales> https://insights.ubuntu.com/event/big-data-mine-and-mingle/
[16:18] <arosales> sorry
[16:18] <arosales> #link https://insights.ubuntu.com/event/big-data-mine-and-mingle/
[16:18] <arosales> any others?
[16:18] <arosales> . . .
[16:18] <arosales> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:18] <arosales> other items?
[16:18] <teward> i think there's a missing item
[16:19] <teward> which agenda page are you using, the ServerTeam/Meeting one?
[16:19] <arosales> teward, using https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands
[16:19] <arosales> linked from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:19] <arosales> teward, was there another topic?
[16:19] <teward> arosales: there's an item on the Agenda page added by me, and I'd like Server Team input on the course of action
[16:19] <teward> arosales: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting - NGINX in Ubuntu: Course of Action discussion (teward)
[16:20] <teward> popped on in the middle of last week
[16:20] <arosales> teward, ahh, sorry for missing that
[16:20] <teward> perhaps it was missed?
[16:20] <teward> no problem :)
[16:20] <arosales> #link https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2015-June/007072.html
[16:21] <teward> Previously, up until now, Debian was using a Stable branch of the NGINX web server's code as the package base.
[16:21] <teward> Recently, based on what they do with Debian release times as far as I can gather, they're now using an NGINX Mainline branch, which is their feature-development branch.
[16:22] <teward> Further questions on that branch can be directed to LinuxJedi who is here currently, and is a Senior Developer Advocate for the nginx upstream people
[16:22] <LinuxJedi> o/
[16:22] <teward> Currently, as of 15.04, we are using the Stable branch of NGINX in Ubuntu, which is mirroring Debian's choice of package versions.  However, following them will have Wily get 1.9.1 currently, which will likely remain that way through next LTS
[16:23] <teward> While both versions are 'stable' enough to be used in production environments, and indeed I do have a couple Mainline nginx versions running in production, that is a changing development branch, replete with new features.
[16:23] <teward> 1.8.x is the NGINX Stable branch, which receives critical bug fixes and security updates but forgoes the additional features.
[16:24] <hallyn> you expect a stable branch of the current devel branch by 16.02 ?
[16:24] <teward> hallyn: from what LinuxJedi has told me, such release (1.10.x) will be very near or after FinalFreeze or release date for LTS
[16:24] <hallyn> that's unfortunate :)
[16:25] <LinuxJedi> but there shouldn't be much change from 1.9.x to 1.10.0 at that stage
[16:25] <teward> they release the 'mainline' as stable in April, and judging by the last release date, April 21, on or near that date would put us really close to release date
[16:25] <hallyn> but if we could get a 1.10.alpha1 that might be good.  i assume the stable releases will be supported much longer than devel
[16:25] <hallyn> i think it's worth asking the release time for best option there
[16:26] <teward> To finish my initial thought stream: I'd like the Server Team to provide some guidance for Wily, as to how we proceed
[16:26] <hallyn> hm, no rbasak today
[16:26] <teward> A merge of 1.9.1 wouldn't take too long.  Merging in changes from Debian's packaging and merging that with 1.8.x is doable by myself, but would diverge from the standard process of getting packaging from Debian
[16:27] <hallyn> you already emailed ubntu-server about this right?
[16:27] <teward> hallyn: indeed.  I did ask Seth Arnold (sarnold) for his opinions, he responded to the email thread on the server mailing list
[16:27] <smoser> teward, well, the questions hallyn asked apply for wily as well as x (16.04)
[16:27] <hallyn> right,
[16:27] <teward> hallyn: the email link that arosales posted.
[16:27] <teward> smoser: indeed.
[16:27] <teward> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2015-June/007072.html
[16:27] <smoser> we dont want to move forward in wily if we would then have to move back.
[16:27] <hallyn> i'd follow sarnold's guidance :)
[16:27] <hallyn> teward: how long do you expect 1.9 to be supported?
[16:27] <LinuxJedi> it is worth noting that useful LTS features such as HTTP/2 will be in 1.10
[16:27] <teward> hallyn: doing so would place us on 1.9.x.
[16:28] <teward> hallyn: until 1.10.x release in April, I believe.  LinuxJedi: that's the upstream support period, if I'm not mistaken?
[16:28] <LinuxJedi> correct
[16:28] <hallyn> teward: i'm wondering whehter we can put things in place now to take 1.9 now, and have process ready to take 1.10 as an exceptional sru in 16.05
[16:28] <hallyn> or, again,
[16:29] <hallyn> ask upstream for a alpha or beta release in feb or march of 2016
[16:29] <smoser> hallyn is right. this is not significantly different then what we do for openstack.
[16:29] <smoser> or at least possibly not much different
[16:29] <rharper> if 1.9.x isn't far apart from 1.10.0, why wouldn't 1.9 have the http2 and other features we'd want in the LTS?
[16:29] <LinuxJedi> it will
[16:29] <hallyn> not htat we want it to become the norm :)  but in 2019 we'll likely be wishing we'd done it
[16:30] <hallyn> rharper: it's just that 1.9 likely won't be supported for 5 years upstream, so a stable would be nicer for 16.04
[16:30] <teward> rharper: provided Debian has it uploaded and available, I'd rather *not* have to do manual source version merges by hand, although I do so for the PPAs already provided under ~nginx on Launchpad
[16:30] <LinuxJedi> 1.9.x is mainline where new features are added. 1.10.0 will be the end release of the 1.9.x series
[16:30] <rharper> right, the support from upstream
[16:30] <rharper> teward: and the package maint;
[16:31] <hallyn> teward: ok, let's see if rbasak is willing to take this to release team, if not i'll volunteer ,t ocome up with options
[16:31] <LinuxJedi> we have odd numbers for mainline and even numbers for stable. And only one odd and one even maintained at any time (so currently 1.8 and 1.9 are maintained)
[16:31] <hallyn> ok how long will 1.10 be supported?
[16:31] <LinuxJedi> until 1.12
[16:31] <hallyn> which is when
[16:31] <teward> hallyn: ack
[16:31] <teward> hallyn: april 2017
[16:31] <hallyn> nyears
[16:31] <hallyn> hm
[16:31] <LinuxJedi> 1 year
[16:31] <hallyn> so tha'ts not much of an extra cushion
[16:32] <hallyn> so we really want an MRE here or something
[16:32] <teward> hallyn: MRE was considered in the past but we have a weird exception:
[16:32] <teward> nginx-core is in main, the other flavors are in Universe, because of third party modules
[16:32] <teward> and security team suggestions/recommendations during the MIR
[16:32] <teward> (back for 14.04)
[16:32] <hallyn> ok i'll need to go read the MIR comments then
[16:33] <hallyn> (assuming rbasak doesn't handle it :)
[16:33] <teward> hallyn: i think the MRE discussion wasn't on the MIR, and was handled after the fact
[16:33] <hallyn> teward: do you have links?  can you send them in a reply to sarnold's email?
[16:33] <hallyn> (bc i haven't got the thread to reply to)
[16:33] <teward> hallyn: to the discussions?  I could try and find the irclogs links, but I think my discussions with rbasak on that were in private
[16:33] <hallyn> oh, ok
[16:33] <hallyn> np
[16:34] <teward> the MIR was https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nginx/+bug/1262710
[16:34] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1262710 in nginx (Ubuntu) "[MIR] nginx" [Undecided,Fix released]
[16:34] <hallyn> arosales: can you post an action for me to follow up (email rbasak etc)?
[16:34] <arosales> #action hallyn to see if rbasak is willing to take this (nginx version in 15.10 and looking to 16.04)  to release team, if not hallyn to volunteer, to come up with options
[16:34] <meetingology> ACTION: hallyn to see if rbasak is willing to take this (nginx version in 15.10 and looking to 16.04)  to release team, if not hallyn to volunteer, to come up with options
[16:34] <hallyn> thx
[16:34] <arosales> thanks hallyn
[16:34] <smoser> thank you teward
[16:34] <teward> you're welcome, and thank you all for your time on this :)
[16:34] <arosales> teward, and LinuxJedi thanks for bringing up this topic
[16:35] <LinuxJedi> no problem
[16:35] <arosales> any other items to discuss?
[16:35] <teward> arosales: you're welcome, thank you to the Server Team for taking the time to discuss.
[16:35] <arosales> teward, np thats what this meeting is for. Sorry for missing your agenda item :-/
[16:35] <teward> arosales: mistakes happen, no worries :0
[16:35] <teward> :) *
[16:36] <arosales> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:36] <arosales> #info chair = hallyn per the list
[16:36] <hallyn> woohoo
[16:36] <arosales> #info NEXT MEETING: Tuesday 2015-06-23 at 1600 UTC
[16:36] <arosales> thanks everyone
[16:36] <arosales> #endmeeting
</pre>
