{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=02&day=13&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Feb 13th 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* micahg

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** FeatureFreeze is this week (February 16th). Please try to finish any non-bugfix work items that are tied to the release by this date. Please talk to mdeslaur (and optionally me) soon if there are issues meeting this deadline. This is particularly true for essential and high priority items.
** Thanks
** Imre Gergely (cemc) provided debdiffs for hardy-precise for pdns (LP: #918588)
** Zubin Mithra (zubin-mithra) assisted with updating atop in lucid and maverick (LP: #820497) 
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Review of any previous action items
** [ACTION] sbeattie to follow up on qrt bugs from QA team
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** happy place
** partner issue should be resolved (see the TB mailing list for details)
** various internal follow-ups
** archive admin
** MIR audits
** pending updates
** finish up some work items
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: community
** sponsored updates
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** firefox 10 but triage (large influx lately)
** webkit
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** eCryptfs kernel fixes pull request
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** mount rule testing and bug fixing for LXC/AppArmor work. Prepare patches to send upstream
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-13-18.00.moin.txt
