{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
{{{
18:01	Moot2	Meeting started at 12:04. The chair is heno.
18:01	Moot2	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
18:01	heno	Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
18:01	cody-somerville	\o/
18:01	cody-somerville	I'm here!
18:01	heno	hey cody-somerville
18:01	ogasawara	hi everyone :)
18:02	heno	[TOPIC]: Bug Importance Guidelines
18:02	Moot2	New Topic: : Bug Importance Guidelines
18:03	heno	this was suggested by Brian on the mailing list but as stalled there
18:03	davmor2	schwuk: evening :)
18:03	LaserJock	so briefly
18:03	heno	we should poll the views of the team here and then check in with devs and release team again
18:03	LaserJock	the question is whether Importance should be per-package or per-distro
18:03	LaserJock	?
18:04	heno	right
18:04	bdmurray	Basically yeah
18:04	LaserJock	Debian is per-package, correct?
18:05	heno	and they have the concept of RC bugs in addition
18:05	LaserJock	I'm basically for per-package Importance
18:05	davmor2	Per-package gets my vote there are some package that cross a number of distro's.
18:05	LaserJock	I know it might mean we need to redo some things
18:05	LaserJock	but for sure from a Universe perspective per-package is better
18:06	bdmurray	We have milestones and release targetting for setting distribution importance
18:06	heno	the release team uses importance as one flag denoting an RC bug in Ubuntu
18:06	LaserJock	basically anything in Universe is going to have a lower priority, by definition, than something in Main
18:06	LaserJock	which doesn't help developers trying to have useful bug lists
18:07	stgraber	I'd also +1 per-package as it's how I want to handle priority of the package(s) I maintain (sort of), that's fine as long as we have a way of clearly getting a list of RC bugs
18:07	heno	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RCBugTargetting
18:07	bdmurray	LaserJock: you mean currently right?
18:07	LaserJock	bdmurray: right
18:07	LaserJock	in general people are looking at how important a bug is relative to the other bugs in the package
18:08	LaserJock	and we do have milestones as bdmurray said
18:08	LaserJock	bdmurray: would it be reasonable to define milestone targeting as RC?
18:08	heno	no because some people use milestones to plan their work
18:08	stgraber	btw, who can milestone bugs at the moment ? (I'm not sure how ACLs are handled now on LP)
=== Moot2 is now known as MootBot
18:09	bdmurray	stgraber: ubuntu-bugcontrol
18:09	heno	independent of the RC function
18:09	LaserJock	heno: hmm, that is a point
18:09	LaserJock	devel release targeting might be a better choice
18:10	LaserJock	or maybe Launchpad can give an RC flag to drivers or something
18:10	LaserJock	in any case, is anybody opposed to having per-package Importance?
18:11	heno	actually a combination of milestone and release targeting is the official way to denote an RC bug
18:11	heno	if it's medium priority or less, it's just a target of opportunity
18:12	LaserJock	as far as I can tell the only -1 on the mailing list thread was from mpt
18:12	LaserJock	because of Launchpad perhaps using the Importance for some bug metric
18:12	heno	I don't think that should conflict with aligning importance with the package though in real world situations
18:13	heno	real RC (high and critical bugs) are likely also high+ for that package
18:13	LaserJock	so an RC bug is defined as one that is Medium or above priority + targeted to devel release + milestoned ?
18:13	LaserJock	heno: exactly
18:13	heno	we can probably contrive situations where that is not the case, but ...
18:14	cody-somerville	It is high or above
18:14	LaserJock	oh, ok
18:14	heno	we could state explicitly that the release management use of importance takes precedence
18:14	cody-somerville	What if we had a ubuntu project?
18:15	heno	for the 5-per release corner cases
18:15	LaserJock	heno: sure
18:15	mpt	cody-somerville, what do you mean by an ubuntu project?
18:15	sbeattie	cody-somerville: you mean an ubuntu-release project, that the release manager(s) use to set priorrity there?
18:15	cody-somerville	sbeattie, Yes.
18:16	mpt	heh, that would be such a hack
18:16	heno	I'd rather we didn't try to redefine the way RC bugs are managed here, as that was already a long discussion and has now been settled
18:16	bdmurray	the importance for the release would be set on the release task
18:17	mpt	So maybe Launchpad should be able to track a bug's importance to a distribution release separately from its importance to the package
18:17	cody-somerville	There could be a Ubuntu project/product on launchpad and we can affect it for bugs that are of interest distro-wide. It makes sense to me because I see packages as individual and isolated where a "product" would represent the product Ubuntu as a whole.
18:17	ara_	and the link between ubuntu and ubuntu-release would be automatic?
18:18	LaserJock	mpt: I think we're kinda already doing that with milestones and release targeting
18:18	cody-somerville	mpt, mmm... yea, that would be better than a separate product
18:18	ScottK	I think what Launchpad's future functionality may or may not be is not really on topic for a discussion of what Ubuntu policy should be currently.
18:18	mpt	true
18:18	heno	right
18:19	LaserJock	so, is there any opposition to the proposed change (Importance is defined on a per-package basis)?
18:19	heno	I think we should take a position on this and then ask the release team if that causes problems for them
18:19	LaserJock	heno: +1
18:19	heno	+1 from me
18:19	ScottK	My main concern with the change is that if we change we suddenly have all the bugs triaged wrong.
18:19	ScottK	Is there a plan to deal with that?
18:20	LaserJock	well, there is a point there
18:20	cody-somerville	ScottK, We were wondering about using a separate project/product in launchpad to track bugs that are of interest to the distro (ie. "release critical") interest of trying to contrive that from the fields that are/should be representative of the package
18:20	LaserJock	I would tend to think that it would just transition over
18:20	heno	how many are really that wrong though?
18:20	bdmurray	I think it'll be handled the same way as all the Confirmed bugs when Triaged came out
18:21	ScottK	heno: For example, in Universe there are essentially no High/Critical bugs because almost by definition, if it's not in Main it can't be high.
18:21	LaserJock	my guess is that a lot of Universe or less "important" package will be able to bump up their Importance
18:21	LaserJock	but nothing should really go down in Importance
18:21	sbeattie	cody-somerville: I think what bdmurray's pointing out is that the the release manager could set the priority for the release, if it's different from the package's priority by setting the priority on the target-release task itself.
18:21	ScottK	bdmurray: I don't think that's giving me confidence.
18:21	bdmurray	I think it will be less of an issue with packages with few bug reports
18:22	heno	it think it's a bigger problem that so many bugs are without importance at all
18:22	bdmurray	It becomes more useful where you have packages with 75+ medium bugs
18:22	heno	and in New
18:22	ScottK	I think there should be a clear plan before the policy change.
* ScottK will be AFK for ~5 minutes.
18:22	LaserJock	ScottK: can the plan be we have no plan? ;-)
18:23	LaserJock	I don't think there's a way to comprehensively just re-prioritize all bugs
18:23	greg-g	or when the bug is looked at again the importance can be changed?  for smaller packages it shouldn't matter TOO much to wait a bit.  For the big projects those independent maintainers already have an idea and could do it relatively quickly
18:23	LaserJock	yeah
* cody-somerville wonders if maybe we should poke the actual release team to see if they can get in on this discussion because it is moot if the solution we come up with if it doesn't work for them.
18:24	LaserJock	I would just say "next time you touch the importance, re-evaluate it in view of the new policy"
18:24	LaserJock	cody-somerville: I don't think we're changing anything for them really, are we?
18:24	geser	I don't believe that a bug in a random package in universe will get fixed quickier because it's now High instead of just Medium or Low
18:24	davmor2	Can you not just add an RC tag that set a release critical bug flag?  An the importance be set in the general manner?
18:24	greg-g	LaserJock: ++
18:24	bdmurray	cody-somerville: I've spoken to slangasek and he was fine with it
18:25	heno	I agree with bdmurray that the place where this is an issue is the packages with lots of bugs that have been prevented from using Critical because of the current policy
18:25	LaserJock	davmor2: tags are open ACLs, *everything* would be RC ;-)
18:25	LaserJock	geser: no, but moving on in the future it might
18:25	heno	a bug in Medium that should really be in High now is not so pressing IMO
18:26	davmor2	LaserJock: Limit who can access the RC flag
18:26	cody-somerville	heno +1
* cody-somerville doesn't really pay attention much to bug important anyhow.
18:26	LaserJock	davmor2: that would be a big Launchpad change, and perhaps not one they want to make
18:26	LaserJock	cody-somerville: that's the problem, IMO
18:27	LaserJock	it would be good if Importance was properly defined and used so that it does mean something to people and they pay attention to it
18:27	LaserJock	currently I don't think we have that
18:27	cody-somerville	I don't see the importance field becoming overly important in most developer's workflow.
18:27	LaserJock	it should
18:28	heno	and consistency has intrinsic value in itself
18:28	LaserJock	and it's also feedback to users/reporters
18:28	geser	if I stumble about a bug I know how to fix I usually don't care about the importance
18:28	heno	ScottK: do you have any objection other that the transition period issue
* ScottK just got back. Let me read the scrollback.
18:29	heno	(there will always be that with any change of tool, policy or procedure)
18:30	cody-somerville	I think we need new values for the importance field
18:30	greg-g	the consistency is a Good Thing(tm) and also, being able to do meaningful reports per package would also be useful. (to respond to the issue of importance not being imortant)
18:30	ScottK	That makes policy change pre-depend on LP change cody-somerville
18:30	cody-somerville	Sorta Important, Important, and Omgz Important would mean more to me.
18:31	LaserJock	can somebody write up a greasemonkey script for cody-somerville ? ;-)
18:31	cody-somerville	<g>
* cody-somerville would so use it if someone did. :P
18:31	geser	cody-somerville: Sorta Important = Low, Important = Medium, Omgz Important = High? :)
18:32	davmor2	cody-somerville: should of done it yesterday = critical
18:32	ScottK	heno: I guess I throw my hands up and say whatever.  I see the advantage of the policy change and so that's fine.  I think about the pain with the current LP speed/UI of actually doing it and I think it's not going to be me spending time on it.
18:32	heno	ok
18:32	ScottK	I'd have mapped Low to Not Important.
18:32	cody-somerville	ScottK, same here
18:33	heno	let's hope the new LP APIs make all this much easier ;)
18:33	LaserJock	isn't wishlist Not Important ?
18:33	ScottK	heno: I just think when it's decided (and I think we ought to have more developer input that we have here) it needs to be clearly communicated.
18:33	ScottK	LaserJock: Wishlist is NotABug, but we don't want to say so.
18:33	cody-somerville	LaserJock, Wishlist -> Illegitimate :P
18:33	heno	right. so we've settled on +1 as a QA team recommendation
18:34	cody-somerville	+1
18:34	LaserJock	cody-somerville: those are Invalid
18:34	cody-somerville	LaserJock, Illegal Alien then
18:34	LaserJock	moving on ...
* ScottK votes 0 - I see the advantage, but I boggle at the inhereited backlog.
18:35	heno	it's been suggested to the u-devel ML though, so there as been opportunity to weigh in
18:35	ScottK	For some better spelling of inherited
18:35	ScottK	heno: I don't think silence is concurrence is a good model for deciding policy changes.
18:35	sbeattie	ScottK: do you have suggestion  on how to deal with the backlog?
18:35	heno	bdmurray: will you work with me on a proper announcement?
18:36	ScottK	heno: I object to deciding this based on silence is concurrence.
* ScottK revises his vote to -1.
18:36	LaserJock	heno: I think sounds good to email to -devel a  "QA team is recommending we set Importance on a per-package basis, feedback on is welcome"
18:36	ScottK	I'm OK with that.
18:36	heno	ScottK: how else should we decide? should everything be taken to the TB?
18:36	cody-somerville	Isn't silence abstaining?
18:37	geser	ScottK: true, but sometimes the only way to get moving forward :(
18:37	heno	LaserJock: sounds good
18:37	ScottK	sbeattie: There isn't a good answer for it.  It's just lots of work.  If we were starting from bug #2, I'd say do it this way.  I'm not certain it's worth the effort now.
18:37	davmor2	+1
18:37	LaserJock	ok, let's move on then, please :-)
18:37	heno	ok we are agreed :)
18:37	ScottK	heno: No, but "Hey let's talk about this" is different than "We intend to do this unless someone objects".
18:37	heno	[TOPIC]: ISO test bug report template
18:37	MootBot	New Topic: : ISO test bug report template
18:38	davmor2	Ah this is me :)
18:38	davmor2	So when working with cgreagan on UME he had a very structured way to do bug reports.
18:39	davmor2	This was great for UME not so good for ISO's/QA a little too inflexible.
18:39	davmor2	So I started work today on my own version for Specifically ISO's
18:40	davmor2	it looks like this now after conferring with a few people
18:40	davmor2	RELEASE:
18:40	davmor2	CD/DVD VARIANT:
18:40	davmor2	ISO DATE:
18:40	davmor2	SYMPTOMS:
18:40	davmor2	CAUSE:
18:40	davmor2	STEPS TO REPRODUCE:
18:41	heno	davmor2: just to be clear: your recommendation is for ISO testing sourced bugs only - not bugs generally
18:41	LaserJock	hmm, should TEST CASE: be in there?
18:41	heno	the topic in the wiki is a bit unclear
18:41	bdmurray	steps to reproduce could be test case
18:41	heno	actually, it's not - might have been your email
18:42	LaserJock	bdmurray: no, I mean, which iso test case they found the bug in
18:42	sbeattie	davmor2: perhaps s/ISO DATE/ISO BUILD/ since there are often mutliple builds on a given day as release deadlines approach?
18:42	LaserJock	like Install (expert) or whatever
18:42	heno	yep, let's standardise on 'TEST CASE' as we already use that
18:43	LaserJock	the stuff that's in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/*
18:43	davmor2	Step's to reproduce is just the way for dev's to know what I was doing when the bug occured.
18:43	LaserJock	additionally, would it be feasible to file the bugs via the ISO tracker?
18:43	davmor2	example https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/253367
18:43	ubottu	Launchpad bug 253367 in ubuntu "Intrepid: Ubuntu screen saver kicks in then switches off again" [Undecided,New]
18:44	LaserJock	we have somewhat of an overloaded definition of "test case" here
18:44	LaserJock	Test Case = what specific test where you doing on the iso when you encountered the bug
18:45	davmor2	It makes the bug far more readable for Dev's it also means that you don't forget to add important info like version's etc.
18:45	LaserJock	Test Case = what steps are needed to test or reproduce the bug
18:46	sbeattie	davmor2: I think generally we're all in agreement that this is a good idea.
18:46	LaserJock	yeah
18:46	LaserJock	also, not sure if CAUSE: is going to be generally filled in
18:46	sbeattie	and just a matter of getting some of the details right.
18:46	heno	are there cases where 'steps to reproduce' would not serve as a test case?
18:47	LaserJock	heno: how do you mean
18:47	davmor2	I think that TEST CASES is something that should stay in the qa realms.  That step to reproduce is more general and intuitive for dev's and bug triagers
18:47	LaserJock	ok, maybe I'm not clear here
18:47	heno	if you follow these steps and you reproduce it's still there, if it doesn't occur then it's fixed
18:47	heno	that's basically a test case
18:48	LaserJock	a piece of data in the bug that is needed is what part of the build you were testing
18:48	stgraber	heno: as far as I understand, LaserJock asked if we should include the ISO tracker testcase in the bug report, something like "Install (entire-disk)"
18:48	LaserJock	this in the ISO tracker is called a test case
18:48	LaserJock	stgraber: right
18:48	heno	oic
18:48	ara_	heno, i think that is too inflexible for a test case definition
18:49	stgraber	the problem here is that "testcase" has at least two different meaning for us :)
18:49	heno	right, so we are over loading it
18:49	LaserJock	exactly
18:49	heno	ara_: heh :) can you help us with a more general definition?
18:49	davmor2	As I said I think Steps to reproduce is more intuitive in a readable format.
18:50	davmor2	as in you know what it means :)
18:50	LaserJock	right
18:50	heno	that's a good point, davmor2
18:50	LaserJock	but we are using the term "test case" elsewhere, like with SRUs
18:50	LaserJock	so I just wanted us to be aware of that
18:51	LaserJock	perhaps we need a QA Glossary :-)
18:51	heno	anyway, we are bikesheding a bit here
18:52	davmor2	LaserJock: Yes and at that point we know what it means.  However dev's, bug triagers etc don't need to know that's what we are working from they just need to know how we came about the bug :)
18:52	LaserJock	davmor2: can you put up the Template on a wiki page where we can discuss, tweak?
18:52	sbeattie	agreed. Perhaps we can just agree to include the link to the iso test case in the steps to reproduce.
18:52	ara_	sbeattie: that makes sense
18:52	heno	that works
18:52	davmor2	sbeattie: I'm also using the template for smoke tests too
18:53	LaserJock	davmor2: I disagree
18:53	heno	davmor2: will you set up a template in the wiki to start with?
18:53	davmor2	Yes no probs :)
18:53	heno	let's move on
18:53	davmor2	Be latter on though I got LUG meeting to go too any second :)
18:53	heno	[TOPIC]: Bugs in backport packages. Which should the policy with those be? It is clearly written that those packages are unsupported
18:53	MootBot	New Topic: : Bugs in backport packages. Which should the policy with those be? It is clearly written that those packages are unsupported
18:54	sbeattie	davmor2: BTW, the latest dl-ubuntu-test-iso, when passed the --versions arg, will report all the build versions of the isos unser ~/iso/
18:54	sbeattie	s/unser/under/
18:54	ara_	I asked in the distro channel, about the policy with this
18:54	LaserJock	ara_: which channel?
18:55	ara_	canonical internal
18:55	LaserJock	k
18:55	stgraber	sbeattie: btw, the next revision of the ISO tracker will have a /list URL (IIRC) that'll give you the list of all images we currently have on the ISO tracker and the md5 for these
18:55	ara_	and the usual thing to do would be:
18:55	ara_	This also affects project -> select hardy-backports as project
18:56	ara_	then, if the bug also happens to be in intrepid, leave the ubuntu one open
18:56	ara_	if not, close the ubuntu bug
18:56	LaserJock	that seems reasonable
18:57	heno	then there is no longer a bug open on a real package
18:57	heno	though that may not be a problem
18:57	ara_	yep, if it only happens in the backport package and not the new release, then it is not maintained
18:57	LaserJock	if it only affects specifically the -backports package then I'm not sure what else you'd do
18:58	LaserJock	ara_: what do you mean by "maintained"
18:58	ara_	supported
* LaserJock is on a glossary hunt today
18:58	LaserJock	uh oh
18:58	LaserJock	ara_: what do you mean  by "supported" ? :-)
18:58	ara_	:)
18:58	LaserJock	these aren't trivial questions though
18:58	LaserJock	-backports is supported
18:58	LaserJock	just not by Canonical
18:59	davmor2	Right I need to get off talk to you tomorrow
18:59	LaserJock	and it is maintained, just not by Canonical specifically
18:59	stgraber	davmor2: see you
19:00	heno	is it supported by Ubuntu though? as in do we make security fixes to things in -backports?
19:00	LaserJock	sure
19:00	LaserJock	if somebody wants to do it
19:00	LaserJock	the backports team are all Ubuntu developers
19:00	heno	if nobody within the project has taken on that responsibility then it's not supported currently
19:00	LaserJock	usually official Ubuntu archives
19:01	LaserJock	so I'm not sure how it would be not supported
19:01	LaserJock	unless perhaps the backports team specifically said they weren't going to
19:01	ara_	but when you select in the Software Sources (system menu) the hardy-backports checkbox it is stated "Unsupported updates"
19:01	heno	if the backports team explicitly commits to that then perhaps. it's probably still a question for the TB though
19:02	LaserJock	heno: perhaps rather a question for the backports team
19:02	heno	yep
19:02	LaserJock	I don't know that it's an issue for the TB
19:02	LaserJock	maybe, but I suspect not
19:03	LaserJock	in any case, it's not clear what "supported" means in these contexts
19:03	LaserJock	but I'm quite sure that the backporters want to know if there are bugs in their packages
19:03	LaserJock	we had an issue with flash for instance, not long ago
19:03	heno	I think it would be for Ubuntu as a project to say 'we support packages in backports' - ie. we as a project delegate that responsibility to the backports team
19:03	LaserJock	and it was fairly clear from that discussion that the backports do try to make sure their packages are bug-free as possible
19:04	LaserJock	heno: I believe we already do say that
19:04	heno	ok, but from a practical perspective, it seems that ara's suggestion works
19:04	LaserJock	i.e. it's in our archives, and it's done by our developers, it's ours to support
19:05	heno	closing the package task with the backports task open seems fine to me
19:05	LaserJock	but, I must admit that the whole "supported" thing is still unclear to me
19:05	LaserJock	heno: totally agreed
19:05	heno	LaserJock: good point
19:06	LaserJock	we want to know if it's going to be a bug in Intrepid
19:06	heno	anyone object?
19:06	LaserJock	so it's valuable having that information
19:06	LaserJock	but if it's not, then the backporting team needs to take care of it
19:07	heno	let's move on
19:07	heno	[TOPIC]: QA Liaison to Launchpad
19:07	MootBot	New Topic: : QA Liaison to Launchpad
19:07	LaserJock	ok, well in interest of time perhaps I'll just give a link to the wiki page I wrote up
19:08	LaserJock	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JordanMantha/QALiaison
19:08	heno	I have to admit I've failed to get a suggestions list up before this meeting
19:08	LaserJock	and perhaps we can move the discussion to the mailing list this week
19:08	heno	(of LP feature requests)
19:09	LaserJock	hopefully the wiki page is fairly clear
19:09	heno	sounds good. we are running a bit long here
19:09	jonpackard	I'd like to make a small suggestion: I think it would be of great benefit to have brief information about the QA Team on the related teams' wiki pages. Mostly just about how the teams are related to the QA Team. I was a member of BugSquad and had never heard of the QA Team until I read about it on Distrowatch.com (it kind of gave the team a bad rap in some ways).
19:10	LaserJock	jonpackard: yeah, I think we can troll around the wiki for some better inter-team linking
19:10	heno	the header is a good start
19:10	LaserJock	jonpackard: perhaps you might want to add an item to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/RoadMap ;-)
19:10	heno	we should deploy that consistently
19:10	LaserJock	jonpackard did great work on that this week
19:11	LaserJock	and also cleaning up our meeting logs
19:11	heno	rock jonpackard!
19:11	LaserJock	my inbox was full of wiki edits ;-)
19:11	jonpackard	thanks :-[
19:11	heno	thanks for stepping up to do that
19:11	heno	the QA portal should help too
19:12	jonpackard	ï»¿heno: you're very welcome
19:12	heno	the new face of qa.ubuntu.com
19:12	LaserJock	heno: ok, last item real quick?
19:12	heno	[TOPIC]: FAUMachine for installation testing (LaserJock)
19:12	MootBot	New Topic: : FAUMachine for installation testing (LaserJock)
19:12	stgraber	heno: this one got back to the "need better spec" status after discussing a bit with LaserJock the other day :)
19:13	heno	stgraber: ok :)
19:13	LaserJock	stgraber: I've also been talking with ubuntuwire.com people
19:13	heno	I believe liw looked into faumachine last year
19:13	stgraber	yeah, we had a demo of it at UDS-Boston IIRC
19:13	LaserJock	yeah, so I wanted to just bring it up
19:14	LaserJock	because I was talking with sistpoty (who is a FAUMachine dev and Ubuntu core developer)
19:14	heno	it's neat to be able to poke commands in from the outside, but it means those tests cannot be run on native hw
19:14	LaserJock	and he thought it might be useful
19:14	heno	which can be useful
19:15	heno	with the native tests we can run them in a range of envirnonments
19:15	LaserJock	sure
19:15	heno	from hw to vms
19:15	heno	VMs I should say :)
19:16	LaserJock	I wonder how easy the native hw tests are
19:16	heno	but if sispoty can make a good case for it we will listen of course
19:16	LaserJock	I haven't seen anything on what the hardware cert people are doing
19:16	heno	LaserJock: to write or run?
19:16	LaserJock	both
19:16	LaserJock	run primarily
19:16	heno	ara_: have you looked at faumachines at all?
19:16	LaserJock	what I'm getting at, is what can we give to advanced users/ubuntu devs to test for us
19:16	cr3	LaserJock: that's because it's internal for now, but we're always open to bigger better ways of doing things in concert with the community
19:17	ara_	heno: no, nothing yet
19:17	LaserJock	I'm not necessarily saying we should ditch what's being done now in favor of FAUmachine
19:17	LaserJock	but perhaps it would be a good compliment
19:17	heno	LaserJock: right. I wondering if it not better done with tests scripts in a VM though
19:17	ara_	heno: i will try to give it a try
19:18	LaserJock	heno: pardon my ignorance, but how is that done?
19:18	heno	we should perhaps ask sispoty for a demo of faumachines for this case
19:18	LaserJock	how would I do automated installation testing in a VM?
19:18	heno	ara_: perhaps just have a look
19:19	stgraber	LaserJock: preseeding is a way
19:19	LaserJock	stgraber: ok, right
19:19	LaserJock	can that handle the ISO test cases fairly well?
19:20	heno	there is some info here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Automation
19:20	stgraber	yep, except it doesn't test the UI
19:20	LaserJock	can you preseed the Desktop install for isntance?
19:20	cr3	LaserJock: 1. vmware provides perl scripts to talk to vmware-server for example, see vmware-ubuntu project on launchpad;
19:20	LaserJock	cr3: ok cool
19:20	cr3	LaserJock: 2. the preseeding could either be done by modifying an iso image, supported by vmware-ubuntu, or from some other location
19:21	cr3	LaserJock: that project is just a shell script wrapping some of the coolness readily avialable from the vmware command line
19:21	sbeattie	heno: when we get back to generating vm images, we should consider adding faumachine images to those we generate.
19:21	cr3	sbeattie: where do we draw the line? vmware, qemu, kvm, faumachine, etc.?
19:21	LaserJock	I'm just trying to get us from "cool stuff a QA engineer can run" to "cool stuff an Ubuntu ISO tester can run"
19:22	LaserJock	cr3: ideally all of the above ;-)
19:22	LaserJock	but the disk/bandwidth seems like it'd be unreasonable
19:22	heno	LaserJock: indeed, I would love that too
19:22	stgraber	cr3: you forogot virtualbox :)
19:22	cr3	stgraber: and the list goes on :)
19:22	heno	if faumachines is an easier way to that we should take a serious look
19:23	LaserJock	the vmware-ubuntu thing sounds cool
19:23	LaserJock	in any case, I just thought I'd bring it up
19:23	LaserJock	I can poke sistpoty about it further (I was going to try to get him to come to the meeting but he's offline)
19:23	heno	ok, ara will have a look at faumachines and sispoty is invited to present if for the team as well
19:24	LaserJock	ah, cool
19:24	heno	ok, any other urgent business?#
19:24	cr3	LaserJock: before you get too excited, I wrote that on the corner of the table but it enables me to automatically install new vmware instances from any alternate image for example
19:24	stgraber	Just a quick notice, I have worked on the Drupal module for the Package status, the result can be seen here: http://80.83.51.125/qapkgstatus/openoffice.org
19:24	stgraber	It's just rendering ogasawara's xml files. Comments/suggestions are welcome.
19:24	LaserJock	cr3: something is better than nothing
19:25	heno	stgraber: excellent!
19:25	LaserJock	I'm looking for things we can put effort into
* heno cheers ogasawara and stgraber
19:25	ara_	stgraber: neat!
19:25	ogasawara	I'll try to tackle some of the feature requests and add them to the xml
19:25	LaserJock	stgraber: is that "live"?
19:25	sbeattie	stgraber: a popup bug info for the oldest bugs a la the way the most duplicates bug is handled might be nice, too,.
19:26	ogasawara	will also want to start generating more xml files for other packages
19:26	ogasawara	sbeattie: I'll add that to the list
19:26	stgraber	LaserJock: sort of, when it'll be on qa.ubuntu.com it'll be. At the moment I just sync the .xml file when ogasawara tells me she changed something.
19:26	LaserJock	stgraber: k
19:27	LaserJock	well that is just a really cool page
19:27	stgraber	ogasawara: would be good so we can use those categories :)
19:27	ogasawara	stgraber: exactly :)
19:27	heno	the xml may be useful for other people too, can we link to that?
19:27	ogasawara	sure, just a sec
19:27	stgraber	http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/pkg-stats/openoffice.org.xml
19:27	MootBot	LINK received:  http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/pkg-stats/openoffice.org.xml
19:28	heno	I mean on the web page :)
19:28	LaserJock	ogasawara: oh, that is very interesting
19:28	heno	as in data source: LINK
19:29	stgraber	heno: sure
19:29	stgraber	ogasawara: can you add a link to the original .xml (on people.u.c) and the generation time to the .xml ?
19:29	ogasawara	stgraber: sure
19:29	LaserJock	ogasawara: is the code for that publicly available?
19:30	stgraber	ogasawara: as attribute of <package> should be fine
19:30	ogasawara	LaserJock:  I
19:30	ogasawara	LaserJock: heh, I'll clean up the code and check it into bzr
19:30	ogasawara	stgraber: ok
19:30	LaserJock	ogasawara: very cool, very cool indeed :-)
19:31	heno	ok, we've been going for 1h30 now so let's wrap it up
19:31	heno	cool stuff though!
19:31	heno	#endmeeting
19:31	MootBot	Meeting finished at 13:34.
19:31	ara_	ok, thanks guys!
19:31	greg-g	wow, long meeting ;)
19:31	heno	thanks everyone, good meeting!
19:31	ara_	cheers!
19:32	sbeattie	thanks, everyone.
19:32	stgraber	thanks}}}
