{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
 
   01:00 OgMaciel     morning all
   01:00 jsgotangco   hallo hallo
   01:00 Kamion       the last mail I have indicates that Mark wanted to do
                      this CC meeting at 2200 UTC yesterday
   01:00 OgMaciel     jsgotangco, =)
   01:00 Kamion       but we obviously never actually set that officially -
                      and I was sick yesterday anyway
   01:01 Kamion       sabdfl is mid-flight at the moment
   01:01 jsgotangco   ahh
   01:01 OgMaciel     not much going on today as per the agenda, huh?
   01:01 jsgotangco   too bad
   01:01 Kamion       I'll SMS mako on the off-chance
   01:01 raphink      hi there
   === mhz [n=mhz_chil@moinmoin/fan/mhz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:02 jsgotangco   we have a light agenda anyways
   01:02 mhz          hi all
   01:02 OgMaciel     mhz, hey
   01:02 mhz          hi OgMaciel
   === doko [n=doko@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === OgMaciel is about to leave for work... 7:03am here
   01:04 jsgotangco   ohh
   === dous [i=[U2FsdGV@ipdial-182-124.tri-isys.com] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   01:05 Kamion       SMSed mako and elmo, can't do much more unless/until
                      both of them arrive unfortunately
   01:05 jsgotangco   yeah
   01:05 Kamion       if they don't appear, we'll try to organise something
                      to get through some member candidates
   01:05 mhz          jsgotangco: is it me or time for meetings was going to
                      rotate
   01:05 jsgotangco   mhz, docteam? it should rotate
   01:05 jsgotangco   CC rotates too
   01:06 Seveas       mhz, it is rotating for CC
   01:06 Kamion       last meeting certainly wasn't 1200
   01:06 mhz          oh, I missed lastone
   01:06 OgMaciel     Seveas, sup bud? ;)
   === mhz salps himself then
   01:06 mhz          ;)
   01:06 jsgotangco   yeah 1200 is strange for CC
   01:06 jsgotangco   its usually later
   01:06 Seveas       it's the first one at 12:00 afaik
   01:06 mhz          12 UTC is 09:00 in chile
   01:07 mhz          i like 12 utc :D
   01:07 jsgotangco   too early for most
   01:07 Kamion       mako suggested the 1200 time, we figured if he didn't
                      mind it was OK by the rest of us
   === elmo [n=james@83-216-156-21.jamest747.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   01:07 jsgotangco   ok
   01:07 jsgotangco   1 more
   01:07 highvoltage  hi atie
   01:07 Seveas       2 down, 1 to go :)
   01:07 Seveas       welcome elmo
   01:07 mhz          hehehe
   01:07 Kamion       elmo: I'm not entirely convinced mako's going to show
                      up
   01:08 jsgotangco   i think its only 6am on this side
   01:08 jsgotangco   or earlier
   01:08 Kamion       elmo: the e-mail thread we had actually scheduled this
                      meeting for 2200 last night
   01:08 elmo         Kamion: woops
   === OgMaciel [n=omaciel@ubuntu/member/gnukemist] has left #ubuntu-meeting
   ["going]
   01:08 Kamion       but I was out of it then and wouldn't have noticed even
                      if I had remembered
   01:08 elmo         have we phoned him yet and/or tried mark?
   01:08 Kamion       I've SMSed mako; mark's in-flight
   01:08 Kamion       (the latter's why we rescheduled)
   01:10 Kamion       I'll try phoning
   01:11 Kamion       voicemail
   01:11 Seveas       which TZ is boston in?
   01:11 Kamion       -5
   01:11 Seveas       so 7am
   01:11 atie         yes 7am there
   01:12 mhz          .oO(oh, european seem to wake up earlier?)
   01:12 jsgotangco   of course
   01:13 Kamion       so, who is here out of the new member candidates?
   01:13 atie         me
   01:13 Kinnison     me
   01:13 dous         me too
   01:13 Gloubiboulga me
   01:13 Kamion       Patrick Davies?
   01:13 Riddell      jpatrick is (he's gone for 10 mins though)
   01:14 jsgotangco   Kinnison, you? =)
   01:14 Kinnison     jsgotangco: Pardon?
   01:14 Seveas       Gloubiboulga, -> Gauvain?
   === Kinnison needs to write his blurb
   01:14 Gloubiboulga Seveas, yes
   01:14 jsgotangco   ok
   01:14 Keybuk       Kinnison: you're not paying attention, AND NOW YOU GO
                      HUNGRY!
   01:14 raphink      :)
   01:14 Kinnison     Keybuk: sorry, was busy with launchpad, blame kamion
   01:15 Kamion       ok, I guess we can at least go through people and then
                      collect acks from mako/sabdfl later on
   01:15 Seveas       sounds like a plan
   01:15 Kamion       APPROVALS AT THIS MEETING DO NOT CONSTITUTE ACTUAL
                      APPROVAL FOR UBUNTUMEMBERS
   01:15 Kamion       thank you :)
   01:15 jsgotangco   cool
   01:15 raphink      oh!
   01:15 Kamion       (since people have got confused in the past)
   01:15 raphink      Kamion: how come?
   01:15 Kamion       raphink: inquorate
   01:15 Seveas       BUT ARE A GOOD INDICATION THAT YOU WILL BE ACCEPTED
   01:15 Seveas       OR NOT
   01:16 jsgotangco   but 2 votes are shoo-in?
   01:16 raphink      I CAN'T HEAR PLEASE SPEAK LOUDER
   01:16 Kamion       jsgotangco: 3 required
   01:16 raphink      ok
   01:16 jsgotangco   right
   01:16 Seveas       ok, let's start calling names
   === Seveas -eq Dennis Kaarsemaker
   === raphink is Raphal Pinson
   === Gloubiboulga is Gauvain Pocentek
   01:16 raphink      hi Seveas btw, nice to see you around :)
   === ogra is OliverGrawert (here to cheer up for Kinnison today :) )
   === hunger is Tobias Hunger.
   === mhz is MauricioHernandez Z.
   === Riddell Jonathan Riddell
   === jsgotangco is Jerome Gotangco
   === Tonio_ is Anthony Mercatante
   === dous is Aldous Penaranda
   === Kinnison is Daniel Silverstone
   === sivang is Sivan Greenberg (cheering up Kinnison as well )
   === irvin is Irvin Piraman
   01:18 Seveas       veryy well, a bit quiet today but that shouldn't hurt
   01:18 jsgotangco   CC lite :)
   01:18 sivang       quite ? :)
   01:18 Kamion       I'll assume jpatrick isn't back yet and go straight to
                      dous
   01:18 Seveas       given that jpatrick is away, dous: you're up. Please
                      give us your 3-liner
   01:18 mhz          jsgotangco: LOL
                      I'm a 21 year-old system administrator from the
                      Philippines. I've been using GNU/Linux since around
   01:18 dous         2002 and tried several distributions before settling on
                      Debian and Ubuntu last year. I first tried Ubuntu
                      during the Warty release.
                      It was only last year that I learned about #ubuntu-ph
                      and started to help out with doing some translation
   01:19 dous         work and advocacy/support. Before that, I was already
                      interested in doing packaging/maintenance for Java
                      packages in Debian.
                      My current work and plans include Tagalog translation
   01:19 dous         and helping out on Java packages and motujava work.
                      Then, once things get settled at my new work, I'll
                      start contributing more on server-related matters.
   01:19 dous         :)
   01:19 Seveas       More people from the philippines - BusinessTour effect
                      or is jsgotangco spamming heavily?
   === highvoltage is Jonathan Carter, alhtough just partially here
   01:19 jsgotangco   lol
   01:19 jsgotangco   nah he's been with us from the start
                      dous: your translation activity seems to have fallen
   01:19 Kamion       off this year; are you still interested in keeping that
                      up?
   01:19 jsgotangco   doing some translations lately
   01:20 dous         Kamion, yes. It's just that I moved to a new job this
                      january
   01:20 dous         Kamion, I don't have broadband at home so I usually do
                      foss work during free time at work
   01:20 Kamion       ok, fair enough
   01:20 Kamion       you mention you've been helping with support tickets
   01:20 dous         jsgotangco, :)
                      the support system's fairly new and has never actually
   01:21 Kamion       been announced :) what's your impression of the
                      situation there?
                      well, when I have free time I just look at the list of
   01:22 dous         requests and try to comment on anything that I have
                      knowledge about
   01:22 Seveas       so just like one would do on a mailing list
   01:22 Kamion       my question is really whether the list of requests is
                      getting out of control or not
   01:22 dous         some submitters seems to lose track of their requests
                      though
   01:23 jsgotangco   but they're subcribed to it from the start
   01:23 Kamion       what do the other Philippines folks think of dous'
                      advocacy activity?
   01:23 dous         they don't come back to comment on answers to their
                      requests sometimes
   === Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@CPE-144-136-116-203.nsw.bigpond.net.au] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   01:23 dous         so I can't confirm if my answers have solved their
                      problem
   01:23 Kamion       that much is inevitable, I think
   01:23 Seveas       dous, that's the same in any bugtracker, people lose
                      interest
   01:24 jsgotangco   pretty good although i would love more Rosetta love
   01:24 raphink      :)
   01:24 jsgotangco   it doesn't take that much to translate 10 lines  a day
                      :)
   === raphink <3 Rosetta :)
   01:24 Seveas       "10 lines a day keeps the evil jsgotangco away"
   01:24 raphink      lol
   01:24 jsgotangco   but its more into our local setup
   01:24 irvin        ack for dous
   01:24 Seveas       that should be the translator motto ;)
   01:25 dous         Kamion, more volunteers would be much appreciated. it's
                      not out of control yet, imho.. :)
   01:25 Kamion       ok, well I'm happy to see somebody doing Java bug
                      gardening too
   01:25 Kamion       elmo?
   01:25 Seveas       Launchpad activity so far is limited to nov-23 to
                      dec-23
   01:25 Seveas       which is only one month
   01:25 irvin        jsgotangco will setting be tighter control on
                      translations
   === ealden [n=ealden@203.76.211.35] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:25 Kamion       Seveas: you misunderstand the karma listing
   01:25 Kamion       Seveas: it doesn't go back forever
   01:25 Seveas       right
   === Seveas hits launchpad
   01:25 elmo         ack
   01:26 dous         Seveas, yeah.. but it's harder to make improvements
                      with little feedback :(
   01:26 jpatrick     Kamion: I'm back sorrt
                      for instance according to
   01:26 Kamion       https://launchpad.net/people/kamion/+karma I've only
                      been active since 2006-01-27 :-P
   01:26 Seveas       Kamion, that sounds pretty accurate :p
   01:26 dous         hehe
   01:26 Seveas       anyway, both present CC members ack'ed so it's up to
                      mako/mark now
   === mhz whishes launchpad could record wiki+irc collaboration time
   01:27 jsgotangco   irc hah
   01:27 Seveas       thanks for coming dous, we'll let you know what the
                      final 'judgement' is :)
   01:27 dous         Seveas, thanks a lot! :)
   01:27 mhz          (and talks)
   01:27 raphink      Kamion: you could be more active then :p hehe
   01:27 Seveas       jpatrick, you're up for the 3-liner
   01:27 Kamion       wait
   01:28 dous         mhz, that would be cool.. 8-)
   01:28 Kamion       Kinnison has to leave at 1300; I'd like to bring him
                      forward
   01:28 Seveas       ok
   01:28 ogra         ++
   01:28 Kamion       Kinnison: ?
                      Hi, I am Daniel Silverstone, 25 yrs old, UK based, and
                      I have been working on Launchpad for the past 14 months
                      (in particular I am primarily responsible for the Soyuz
   01:28 Kinnison     backend) and have in my spare time done various things
                      for Ubuntu, centred primarily around Toshiba laptop
                      support. I have also been a Debian developer for about
                      five years now.
                      In particular I have written the new toshiba_acpi
                      kernel module support for punting the hotkeys into the
   01:28 Kinnison     ACPI subsystem, support for this in fnfxd and
                      acpi-support. I was also the Debian maintainer of lua50
                      and lua40 for quite a while and a Debian ftpmaster for
                      some time.
                      I intend to work on general bug fixing as part of the
   01:28 Kinnison     ubuntu core development team during the dapper
                      timeframe and then more generally on laptop support for
                      toshibas and various general laptop related work.
   01:28 jsgotangco   go toshiba
   01:28 ogra         cheer cheer cheer !
   === dop182 [i=dop182@200.234.67.253] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:29 Kamion       Kinnison: do you expect you'll be getting some of the
                      laptop stuff done pre-dapper?
                      Kamion: yes, I have been fixing bugs in
   01:29 Kinnison     gnome-power-manager since I first installed dapper last
                      night :-)
   01:29 Kamion       heh
   === jsgotangco toshiba needs serious work
   01:29 Kamion       so does g-p-m
   01:29 jsgotangco   "my"
   01:30 ogra         Kamion, his fix will be in todays g-p-m upload :)
   01:30 Mithrandir   I think we should approve Kinnison since he's so
                      cuddly. :-)
   01:30 ogra         Mithrandir++
   01:30 jsgotangco   :)
   01:30 raphink      :)
   01:30 Tonio_       ;)
                      full disclosure, Kinnison's a Canonical employee, we
   01:30 Kamion       all know him, and basically he's been doing lots of
                      useful stuff forever. any objections?
   01:30 Kamion       (kthxbye)
   01:30 Seveas       none at all
   01:31 ogra         :)
   01:31 raphink      it's just quite logical forhim to be ine
   01:31 raphink      in
   === irvin was surprised he added himself
   01:31 irvin        :)
   01:31 Kamion       I suppose it remains to be seen whether Soyuz is a
                      positive contribution to Ubuntu ;-)
   01:31 sivang       go Kinnison  !
   === Kamion runs away
   01:31 raphink      irvin: yeah
   01:31 Tonio_       raphink++
   01:31 ogra         Kamion, *giggle*
   01:31 Seveas       Kamion, bwahaha :)
   01:31 jsgotangco   +1 for the cuddliness?
   01:31 Kamion       irvin: he's moving to the Canonical distro team for a
                      while, it's part of the job
   01:32 sivang       +2 for cuddliness
   01:32 Kamion       elmo: ?
   01:32 ogra         jsgotangco, nah, more than +10 :)
   01:32 jsgotangco   not to mention mao master
   01:32 sivang       indeed
   01:32 elmo         ack
   01:33 Seveas       cool beans
   01:33 Kamion       jpatrick: you're up
   01:33 Kinnison     thanks guys
   === Kinnison goes to get ready for his meeting with the mortgage advisor
   01:33 ogra         congrats
   01:33 Kinnison     urgh
   01:33 sivang       Kinnison: welcome aboard :-)
   01:33 jsgotangco   oh well
   01:33 Seveas       Kinnison, have fun :)
   01:33 Seveas       sivang, not yet :)
   01:33 Kinnison     sivang: well, pending mako/sabdfl
   01:33 Kamion       sivang: point of order, not without a third vote
   01:33 raphink      welcome to the team Kinnison
   01:33 Kamion       (END of point of order.)
   01:33 raphink      oh yes right
   01:33 raphink      sorry ;)
   01:33 sivang       Kamion: heh, noted :)
   01:33 Seveas       jpatrick, ?
                      I am Jonathan Patrick Davies. Currently living in
                      Girona, Catalonia, Spain - although I am originally
   01:33 jpatrick     from London (UK). Been using Linux since around
                      Kubuntu's first release. And I'm a member of the
                      Kubuntu Team
   01:33 raphink      almost welcome to the team Kinnison
   01:34 mhz          Kinnison: welcome!!!!
   === dop182 [i=dop182@200.234.67.253] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   01:34 jpatrick     I make KDE packages and help out on the forums and am
                      am admin of kubuntu-es.org
   === Keybuk [n=scott@descent.netsplit.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting [""]
   01:34 ogra         jpatrick, is quite busy in -motu with this strange
                      desktop stuff starting with the K :)
   01:34 raphink      jpatrick packages quite a lot, we see good packages
                      from him on REVU
   01:35 jpatrick     I also do some translations at Rosetta
   01:35 raphink      he's quite an active kubuntu dev for sure :)
   01:35 Seveas       jpatrick, you say you repackaged yakuake? Why - doesn't
                      it create an unneccessary diff with Debian?
   01:35 ogra         i bet Riddell might also want to speak up for him
   01:35 Tonio_       yep, very active on REVU
   01:35 jpatrick     Seveas: Mez took over take
   01:35 Riddell      jpatrick helps out in numberous ways, I fully support
                      his membership
   01:35 jpatrick     that*
   01:35 raphink      :)
   === zakame [n=zak@ubuntu/member/zakame] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:35 Seveas       woah - translator karma of doom
   01:35 Riddell      Seveas: it was packaged in kubuntu long before debian
                      did it
   01:35 zakame       hi all
   01:36 Kamion       urgh, looks like repackaging to add a patch system
   01:36 Kamion       fair enough in this specific case from the sound of it,
                      but in general do try to avoid that
   01:36 jsgotangco   2318 karma nice
   01:36 mhz          zakame: hi.. so far, 1 candidate 'under consideration',
                      1 new memeber, evaluating jpatrick
   01:37 zakame       heya mhz :) thanks for updating
                      that's a hell of a lot of karma for en_GB - I didn't
   01:37 Kamion       think that many translations that were actually
                      distinct from the original could be fitted in ;)
   01:37 elmo         Kamion: if we did it first, I think it's hard for
                      people to complain about our use of patch systems
   01:37 Kamion       elmo: as I say, fair enough in this specific case
   01:37 jpatrick     Kamion: I still have to start ca and es but I'm waiting
                      for the K apps
   01:38 elmo         jpatrick: K apps?
   01:38 jpatrick     KDE
   01:38 elmo         sure, but what are you waiting for?
                      Sevea: the diff with debian is becuse jpatrcik created
   01:38 Mez          yakuake package first - debian dev decided to do it
                      differently
   01:38 Riddell      KDE still isn't in rosetta (will be when dapper gets
                      imported)
   === lucas [n=lucas@ubuntu/member/lucas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:39 elmo         ah, I see
   01:39 elmo         Riddell: how come?
   01:39 elmo         Riddell: and when is dapper due to be imported?
                      elmo: the .pot files were not generated in the breezy
   01:39 Riddell      packages, we had to sort out that gettext-kde
                      issue.  dapper will be imported at string freeze I
                      think
   01:39 ogra         for the time being you could translate kino to feel
                      more at home even if its a gtk app :)
   01:40 elmo         oh, right, gettext-kde, *gag*
   01:40 raphink      hehe
   01:40 Seveas       well, jpatrick gets a ++ from me, contributions look
                      s&s
   01:40 Riddell      (you'll be pleased to know that KDE 4 has now been
                      changed to current GNU gettext)
   01:40 Kamion       Riddell: (hooray)
   01:40 raphink      ++ for jpatrick :)
   01:41 hunger       yeah, jpatrick did lots of debs I am using. If I may
                      vote I'll ++ for jpatrick.
   01:41 raphink      Riddell: which means we won't need kde pot dirty
                      patches in kde 4 :)
   01:41 Kamion       as usual, voting is restricted to CC members
   01:41 jsgotangco   awesome karma too
   01:41 ogra         but you can cheer ;)
   === hunger shuts up then.
   01:41 Seveas       Kamion, it was a cheer, not a vote
   === raphink just cheers
   === irvin_ [n=irvin@203.213.194.230] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:41 Kamion       anyway, I'm happy with jpatrick's contributions so far
   01:42 elmo         how do I see the specific translations  a person's done
                      in launchpad, or can I stil lnot?
   01:42 elmo         yeah, ack from me too
   === Mez is surprised he isnt already a member.
   01:42 Kamion       (Kubuntu-wise anyway, I have no idea about the en_GB
                      stuff yet)
   01:42 jpatrick     Mez: I missed the early meetings :(
   01:42 jpatrick     elmo:
                      https://launchpad.net/people/jpatrick/+translations ?
   01:42 Mez          jpatricks done quire a bit en_GB stuff I believe (lol -
                      though I havent for a while - and i run that team!)
   01:43 Seveas       jpatrick, that does not list the individual
                      translations
   01:43 Seveas       anyway, 2 acks from the CC is all we'll get for now
   01:43 jpatrick     ah right
   01:43 Seveas       jpatrick, thanks for coming!
   01:43 jpatrick     no problem :)
   01:44 Seveas       Gloubiboulga is next
                      I'm Gauvain Pocentek, a 26 years old french music
                      student. I'm an (x)ubuntu user since the warty release.
                      I've spent a lot of time on irc and forums helping
                      users during the last months, trying to make their
   01:44 Gloubiboulga Ubuntu life easier. I have also worked on more
                      technical stuff, like packaging, bugs reports/patches
                      and a few merges/syncs. I have now a little experience
                      in packaging, and try to help new packagers, with some
                      comments on REVU (which make
   01:44 Gloubiboulga s me improve my packaging skill too).
                      For the future, I really want to keep helping user,
                      because the quality of the Ubuntu community is
   01:44 Gloubiboulga certainly a huge advantage for Ubuntu (and of course
                      its technical quality, but everyone here is concerned
                      by this). I also plan to keep helping with bugs stuff,
                      merges for dapper+1, packaging...
                      I also really think about french translations of some
   01:44 Gloubiboulga wiki.u.c pages about how to help Ubuntu, because we
                      don't have a lot of doc about this on French web pages.
                      Gloubiboulga is very active on REVU and in the MOTU
   01:44 raphink      world in general, as well as in #ubuntu-fr. He has
                      begun to send me reviews for REVU lately, and I've been
                      happy to sponsor since they are of very good quality.
   01:45 raphink      I would be veyr happy with his membership :)
   01:45 jsgotangco   music interesting..i've seen a music project in the
                      forums too
   01:46 Tonio_       raphink++, nothing more to say to me ;)
   01:46 Kamion       nice to see lilypond is still alive; what's the state
                      of development there?
   01:46 raphink      Gloubiboulga is an emacs music hacker ;)
   === freeflying [n=freeflyi@61.190.65.4] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:46 Gloubiboulga version 2.7.32 is out, with a lot of improvments :)
   01:47 Gloubiboulga I'm currently working of the docs' translation
   01:47 Kamion       (from the point of view of somebody who last looked at
                      it in about 2002)
   === ogra_ [n=ogra@p5089F088.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:47 mhz          .oO(ig Gloubiboulga is a mac user then that's an
                      incredible contribution already :D )
   01:47 Gloubiboulga Kamion, 2002 is far far away :)
   01:47 Seveas       any other MOTU to vouch for packaging work?
   01:47 raphink      Kamion: lilypong has changed a lot since. It now
                      integrates in LaTeX fully iirc
   01:47 mhz          .oO(ig Gloubiboulga is an  emac user then that's an
                      incredible contribution already :D )
   01:47 zakame       raphink: emacs!
   01:47 Gloubiboulga mhz, :)
   01:48 raphink      zakame: pico!
   01:48 zakame       Gloubiboulga: anything with emacs gets my nod ;)
   01:48 jsgotangco   bah
   01:48 zakame       Seveas: I've seen Gloubiboulga do good work, I'd love
                      to have him aboard :)
   01:49 Seveas       hmm, siretart, poke
   01:49 Seveas       could you make something in REVU so it is easy to see
                      someones contribution there?
   01:50 raphink      Seveas: you can read the motu-reviewers ML to see
                      contributions
   01:50 raphink      ;)
   01:50 elmo         ack from me
   01:50 elmo         (brb)
   01:50 Seveas       raphink, during CC meetings, when we want to check such
                      things, it is nice to have an overview
   01:50 raphink      grep for gauvain in the ML you'll see ;)
   01:50 Seveas       just like launchpad/wiki
   01:50 raphink      sure Seveas
   01:51 zakame       raphink++
   01:51 Seveas       Gloubiboulga's contribution so far looks well, I give
                      him a \o/ (that's a cheer)
   01:51 Kamion       Gauvain has several mentions on dapper-changes so far,
                      which makes me happy
   01:51 raphink      oh nice cheer :)
   01:51 Kamion       keep it up
   01:51 Kamion       ack from me
   01:51 raphink      \o_   \o/  _o/
   01:52 Gloubiboulga thanks :)
   01:52 jsgotangco   nice one
   01:52 zakame       Gloubiboulga: rock on :D
                      ok, cool, Kamion happy, elmo acked, so we're down to
   01:52 Seveas       the next and last one already. Gloubiboulga thanks for
                      coming and keep up the good work
   01:52 Seveas       atie, you're up :)
   01:52 atie         My name is Chris Ha. I live in Houston, work for a
                      company as developer.
                      My Ubuntu work started with making my comments and
   01:52 atie         researches to the BetterCJKSupport wiki since November
                      last year and as Day 1 Dapper user, I made number of
                      bug reportings mostly beta user and CJK user concerns.
                      With that I was thinkg it better to be some sort of
                      team so discussed with Korean Ubuntu users and
   01:52 atie         established Ubuntu Korean LoCoTeam. I am acting as
                      contact for KoreanTeam, our team members are about 25
                      people. Also, there is Ubuntu CJK Testers team
                      including 4 CJK LoCoTeam contacts about a month now.
                      My main concern at this point is about translations for
                      Dapper, by myself I translated some Dapper packages and
                      products, and coordinating with Ubuntu and GNOME
   01:52 atie         translators in Korea to prepare upcoming translations.
                      Meanwhile myself and KoreanTeam are doing some
                      translations and documentations to the Devel wiki at
                      ubuntu.or.kr .
                      I may put too many lines here, because I'd like to use
                      Ubuntu/Kubuntu dev version, I'll continue to use dev
   01:52 atie         version as my desktop OS doing same things above. I
                      believe that is helping Ubuntu Korean users and
                      developement of Ubuntu.
   01:53 Kamion       smurf: have you been working with atie on the locoteam
                      stuff already?
   01:53 Seveas       atie, CJK needs lots of love, what are your plans for
                      it?
   01:54 ogra         atie, we're about to add scim to main, any thoughts or
                      hints from an experiencend user about that ?
                      i've been to the korean team channel in hanirc.org
   01:54 jsgotangco   since i came from seoul and they have a very very
                      active community
   01:54 atie         Seveas, I can put what Korean users having trouble with
   01:54 atie         orga, I have votes from Korean Users
   01:55 atie         orga, and I did ask IM developer in Korea.
   === Seveas brb - phone
   01:56 jsgotangco   atie, DAUM?
   01:56 ogra         might you be able to help with the scim stuff (even
                      through bugreports or feedback would be fine) ?
   01:56 atie         orga, yes I can.
   01:56 ogra         cool :)
   01:56 atie         actually now I am testing skim.
                      we need a strong group of maintainers for scim etc.;
   01:57 Kamion       it's not something that the core development team have
                      experience with
   01:57 ogra         we're really lacking in this area ...
   01:57 Seveas       re
   01:57 jsgotangco   minghua can only do too much
   01:57 atie         I am not a linux developer, but I think I can find my
                      way to help scim/skim and other CJK stuff
   01:58 elmo         jsgotangco: (s/too/so/)
   01:58 ogra         you dont need to be a developer to give valuable
                      feedback ... and thats most we need ... :)
   01:59 atie         orga, I think so.
   01:59 Seveas       elmo, perhaps not, from what I heard he does an qwful
                      lot ;)
   01:59 Seveas       s/q/a/
   01:59 ogra         telling us we do the right thing and pointing out the
                      drawbacks is the most important stuff here
   01:59 ogra         getting a good QA in place for input methods ...
   01:59 atie         IM is start point for CJK users
   02:00 atie         there are more stuff to improve like as ID3 tag...
   02:00 Kamion       somebody to collate problem reports from CJK users
                      would be good too, once we do get scim integrated
   02:00 atie         I am monitoring bugs related to CJK.
                      since most of us can only go "uh?" when confronted with
   02:00 Kamion       a problem report about a language we don't speak and a
                      script we can't type :)
   02:00 Kamion       especially if the problem report is of the form "but it
                      works fine with uim" or whatever
   02:01 atie         and assign ubuntu-cjk-testers for them.
   02:01 atie         means I am testing myself and get feedback from our
                      team and users
   02:01 Seveas       How big is the u-cjk-t team?
                      minghua is already doing a great job with the packages
   02:01 ogra         even if he might need help, thats not the most critical
                      part ...
   02:01 atie         Seveas, 9 including 4 loco contacts
   02:02 atie         so fair enough I think, since our team members are 25.
   02:03 ogra         anyway, a big cheer from me for atie ...
   === Seveas \o/
   02:03 jsgotangco   \o_  \o/  atie  \o/  _o/
   02:03 atie         orga, thanks
   02:03 Seveas       atie, it's ogra, not orga :)
   02:03 ogra         :)
   02:03 atie         sorry
   02:03 jsgotangco   heheh
   02:03 mhz          the now institutionalized \o\  \o/ /o/
   02:04 jsgotangco   good thing a is far from y
   02:04 ogra         Seveas, as long as i'm around thats ok :)
   02:04 Seveas       jsgotangco, ;)
   02:04 Mez          lol @ jsgotangco
   02:04 ogra         Seveas, (and also makes me feel less chaotic ;) )
   02:04 Kamion       I'm ok with atie for membership, from the sound of
                      things
   02:04 Kamion       elmo: ?
   02:05 elmo         yeah, ack from me
   02:05 elmo         (sorry was just reading some of the bugs)
   02:05 Kamion       glad to see more people with a clue about CJK
   02:05 ogra         ++
   02:05 Seveas       ClueJK :)
   02:05 Kamion       right, so in lieu of actually being quorate I think
                      we're done
   02:05 Kamion       any other business?
   02:05 Seveas       anyway, atie was tha last one for now, thanks for
                      coming!
   02:05 atie         I hope more on Dapper+1
   02:05 jsgotangco   yeah should be better
   02:05 atie         thanks everyone.
   02:05 Seveas       Kamion, time of next meeting?
   02:06 ogra         atie, congrats :)
   02:06 elmo         Seveas: let's put that off till we can talk to mako and
                      find out mark's schedule
   02:06 atie         ogra, thx
   === Kamion looks up sabdfl's travel plans
   02:06 Seveas       elmo++
   02:06 elmo         Kamion: using the cvd-calendar program?
   02:06 mhz          atie: i'm very happy for you
   02:06 Kamion       sabdfl's still on tour in two weeks' time, although at
                      the end of the tour
   02:06 Kamion       elmo: https://wiki.canonical.com/AsiaBusinessTour2006
   02:07 atie         mhz, me too. thanks to you.
   02:07 elmo         Kamion: I recommend the cvd upgrade ;)
   02:07 zakame       congrats atie
   02:07 Kamion       so yeah, it might be better to use cvd-calendar and
                      switch to a different day that week
   02:07 Seveas       cvd?
   02:07 jsgotangco   claire davis
   02:08 Kamion       Seveas: mark's secretary, among many other functions
   02:08 Seveas       ah
   02:08 mhz          lol
   02:08 ogra         Seveas, the walking calendar
   02:08 atie         can I ask one question? I'd be welcomed to CC meeting
                      at any time.
   02:08 mhz          yup
   02:08 ogra         atie, sure
   02:08 jsgotangco   of course
   02:08 Kamion       atie: sure, but general questions are usually more
                      appropriate elsewhere
   02:08 Seveas       everyone is welcome, Ubuntu member or not
   02:08 raphink      :)
   02:08 atie         thanks guy.
   02:08 mhz          atie: and you can always bring new ideas of cheering
                      \o/
   02:08 mhz          :D
   02:08 Kamion       ok, sounds like we're done
   === ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Seveas] : Calendar:
   http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs:
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 8 Feb 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 9 Feb
   08:00 UTC: Dapper Development Status | 14 Feb 20:00 UTC: Technical Board |
   15 Feb 20:00 UTC: MOTU | 16 Feb 20:00 UTC: Kubuntu
   02:09 Kamion       meeting adjourned
   02:09 Seveas       thanks all, see you in 2 weeks :)
  

</pre>
