{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

ivoks had to review status of bug 360689. ivoks was not around for the meeting but since the bug is now in "Fix Released" state the action is assumed to be completed.

===== Jaunty release =====

ttx reminded everyone that final ISO testing is in full swing, with a few testcases still needing testers. Everyone is welcome to participate ! dendrobates mentioned the need to test the F4/minimal install case as well. The 20090421.1 images are shaping up to be the final 9.04 server release.

===== Ideas for Karmic =====

ttx pointed again at the ServerTeam/IdeaPool being open for Karmic development ideas. Another option for more advanced or complex proposals is to submit directly a <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu|blueprint in Launchpad]]</nowiki> and subscribe the ubuntu-server team to it. Last option, mentioned by aruetten, is to use the brainstorm.ubuntu.com <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/server/|server section]]</nowiki>.

===== Open Discussion =====

Ubuntu release parties will be happening very soon. Some server team members will be attending the one in Aalborg, Denmark. kirkland is <nowiki>[[http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/04/jaunty-release-party-austin-texas.html|organizing one]]</nowiki> at a bar called The Jackalope in Austin, TX.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 28th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <ttx> #startmeeting
[16:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:02. The chair is ttx.
[16:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:02] <ttx> Welcome to the always amazing Ubuntu Server team meeting.
[16:02] <ttx> Today's agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:03]  * ttx reloads to doublecheck nothing specific was just added
[16:03] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:04] <ttx> Only unofficial ACTIOn item was the bug 360689 review by ivoks
[16:04] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 360689 in amavisd-new "Default Ubuntu configuration is backscatter source in Jaunty" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/360689
[16:04] <ttx> Which is now in Fix Released state
[16:05] <dendrobates> ivoks doen't seem to be here, so ...
[16:05] <ttx> Anything else from last meeting someone wants to bring up ?
[16:05] <kirkland> o/
[16:05] <ttx> kirkland: yes ?
[16:06] <kirkland> ttx: sorry, late "i'm here"
[16:06] <ttx> Ah :)
[16:06] <ttx> Then, let's proceed to today's hot topic
[16:06] <ttx> [TOPIC] Jaunty release
[16:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Jaunty release
[16:07] <ttx> So we are now very very close to Jaunty release date, I hope there is no hidden issue someone wants to bring up ?
[16:08] <ttx> ISO testing is in full swing, please help if you can, especially if you own real hardware (as KVM-based testing is quite well covered already)
[16:08] <ttx> The "Virtualization host" test on ubuntu Server amd64 is not covered yet
[16:09] <kirkland> ttx: i was trying to free up some hardware to do that
[16:09] <kirkland> ttx: but my spare box is running hardy + kvm-84, and i don't really want to reimage that at this point
[16:09] <dendrobates> ttx: we also need to test the minimal install.
[16:09] <kirkland> ttx: so i echo your call
[16:09] <dendrobates> ttx: you select it using F4
[16:10] <kirkland> dendrobates: i can do that in a VM
[16:10] <ttx> dendrobates: I did the two "virtual machine install" ones
[16:10] <ttx> dendrobates: aka "jeOS on KVM"
[16:10] <kirkland> ttx: i was also going to do the virtual-host one, using nested kvm
[16:11] <dendrobates> ttx: did the instructions get updated?
[16:11] <ttx> dendrobates: 2009-02-25 23:10:25 by mathiaz
[16:12] <ttx> not exactly sure that answers your question though
[16:13] <ttx> dendrobates: does 20090421.1 shape up to be the final respin, from where you stand ?
[16:13] <dendrobates> ttx: I'll check, and fix if necessary
[16:13] <dendrobates> ttx: yes, I've done a couple dozen installs the last two days with no errors
[16:14] <ttx> Okay. Anything else on the Jaunty release front ?
[16:15] <ttx> then...
[16:15] <ttx> [TOPIC] Ideas for Karmic
[16:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ideas for Karmic
[16:16] <ttx> i'll echo last week call for ideas, feel free to fill https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/IdeaPool with your thoughts
[16:16] <ttx> If that's something more complex or advanced than an idea, you can also submit a blueprint and subscribe the ubuntu-server team to it.
[16:17] <aruetten> I got this URL http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/server/ for ﻿ Ideas for Karmic
[16:17] <ttx> aruetten: right, that's another source we look at.
[16:18] <aruetten> ok
[16:18] <ttx> moving on to...
[16:18] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:18] <ttx> anything/anyone ?
[16:19] <ttx> Who goes to an Ubuntu Release party and where ?
[16:20] <sommer> I think there's a local one in my area, but I don't think I'll be able to make it :(
[16:22] <ttx> kirkland: anything shaping up in Austin ?
[16:22] <dinda> sommer: you can throw your own party ya know  :)
[16:23] <zul_> ill be going to one
[16:23] <dinda> ttx:  Kirkland's throwing one in austin. . .
[16:23] <dinda> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyReleaseParties#USA
[16:23] <ttx> zul_: a not so local one, from what I heard.
[16:24] <sommer> dinda: heh, very true
[16:24] <zul_> ttx: true with lots of fish
=== fenris- is now known as e-jat
=== zul_ is now known as zul
[16:24] <kirkland> that's true!\
[16:24] <kirkland> we actually have a bar called The Jackalope in Austin on 6th Street
[16:25] <ttx> kirkland: ah ! I was worried you weren't taking my bait :)
[16:25] <kirkland> ttx: http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/04/jaunty-release-party-austin-texas.html
[16:26] <ttx> the place to be !
[16:26] <dinda> kirkland: that is awesome
[16:26] <kirkland> it's a pretty cheesey bar, but the name is too good to pass up :-)
[16:27]  * dinda wonders if there is a karmic bar in austin. . . 
[16:27] <ttx> Other server team members shall be attending the Aalborg, Denmark one on Friday.
[16:27] <ttx> s/shall/might/
[16:27] <itnet7> dinda: did hela ever get a hold of you?
[16:27] <kirkland> dinda: there is Aussies Sports bar, with koalas on the wall ;-)  it's a beach volleyball place
[16:28] <dinda> ChrisCrisafulli: nope
[16:28] <kirkland> dinda: and there is a bar called "Karma" ... http://www.karma-austin.com/
[16:28] <ttx> anything else before we close the meeting ?
[16:29] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:29] <ttx> Same place, same time, next week?
[16:30] <ttx> Hopefully we'll have a 9.04 by then.
[16:31] <sommer> works for me
[16:31] <ttx> Allrighty
[16:31] <ttx> #endmeeting
[16:31] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:31.
</pre>
