{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by smoser at 16:06:13 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-02-19-16.06.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting   (smoser, 16:06:38)
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
''LINK:'' http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-02-12-16.01.html   (smoser, 16:07:53)
''ACTION:'' Daviey send call for alpha-2-ish testing  (smoser, 16:09:56)
''ACTION:'' : jamespage to milesone documentation updates [carryover]  (smoser, 16:10:34)

* Raring Development

* Ubuntu Server Team Events
''LINK:'' http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/   (smoser, 16:18:36)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

* Open Discussion
''ACTION:'' jamespage discuss QA representation at Server TeamMeeting  (smoser, 16:37:50)

* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

Meeting ended at 16:41:40 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* Daviey send call for alpha-2-ish testing
* : jamespage to milesone documentation updates [carryover]
* jamespage discuss QA representation at Server TeamMeeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* Daviey
* * Daviey send call for alpha-2-ish testing
* jamespage
* * : jamespage to milesone documentation updates [carryover]
* * jamespage discuss QA representation at Server TeamMeeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* smoser (72)
* jamespage (16)
* roaksoax (12)
* hallyn (11)
* smb (10)
* meetingology (6)
* m_3 (4)
* arosales (2)
* ubottu (2)
* Daviey (2)

=== Full Log ===

 16:06:13 <smoser> #startmeeting ubuntu-server

 16:06:13 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb 19 16:06:13 2013 UTC.  The chair is smoser. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:06:13 <meetingology> 

 16:06:13 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:06:38 <smoser> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting

 16:06:46 <smoser> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:07:24 * smoser looks for logs to get action items

 16:07:53 <smoser> http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-02-12-16.01.html

 16:08:01 <smoser> Daviey, you're listed there as send request for testing

 16:08:20 <smoser> did we send? i dont think so.

 16:08:34 <Daviey> smoser: sort of "no".

 16:08:45 <smoser> we did release a alpha-2 cloud images . (http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/13.04/alpha-2/)

 16:08:58 <smoser> hm...

 16:09:18 <smoser> ok, so we'll re-action that? i really do think we should make an effort there.

 16:09:32 <Daviey> +1

 16:09:56 <smoser> #ACTION Daviey send call for alpha-2-ish testing

 16:09:56 * meetingology Daviey send call for alpha-2-ish testing

 16:10:10 * smoser jamespage to milesone documentation updates (zul, 16:38:45)

 16:10:17 <smoser> jamespage, ^

 16:10:20 <jamespage> not done yet

 16:10:34 <smoser> #ACTION: jamespage to milesone documentation updates [carryover]

 16:10:34 * meetingology : jamespage to milesone documentation updates [carryover]

 16:10:49 <smoser> #topic Raring Development

 16:11:03 <smoser> release tracking: http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:11:10 <jamespage> action was actually to ensure that any doc updates in BP's are milestoned appropriatly

 16:11:38 <smoser> jamespage, ah. ok. do you need help there?

 16:12:24 <smoser> ok. so release tracking link up there. maas is the biggest thing. and the qemu-kvm.

 16:12:37 <smoser> hallyn, do you have a handle on the qemu-kvm bug ?

 16:12:45 <jamespage> smoser, nah - its OK - I'll do it

 16:12:48 <smoser> bug 1092715

 16:12:50 <ubottu> bug 1092715 in qemu-kvm (Ubuntu Raring) "udevadm trigger --action=change not working in quantal and raring" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1092715

 16:12:59 <jamespage> that one is killing me slowly

 16:13:02 <hallyn> smoser: yes, i just need to talk to pitti again

 16:13:12 <hallyn> smoser: there is a real bug in udev,

 16:13:17 <smoser> hallyn, please do... that is a real pain

 16:13:18 <hallyn> but i want to just work around it

 16:13:26 * smoser is tired of 'chmod 666 /dev/kvm'

 16:13:34 <hallyn> all right, i'll talk to him today or tomorrow

 16:13:36 <hallyn> (depending on his tz)

 16:13:37 <jamespage> lol

 16:13:57 <smoser> roaksoax, maas and release tracking ?

 16:14:04 <smoser> err... sru. i think we're nearing it.

 16:14:38 <smoser> hm.. we'll maybe come back to that.

 16:14:48 <roaksoax> smoser: well, bigjools had to adapt a patch to django so that it would be done in the maas side instead. But since I just learned he is with leave... then we'll have to ping someone else on the MAAS team

 16:15:04 <roaksoax> s/to django/for django/

 16:15:09 <smoser> roaksoax, ok. please do follow up there. i'm sure we can find someone on maas team to accomplish.

 16:15:11 <smoser> blueprints: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html

 16:15:29 <roaksoax> smoser: other than that, is merging the latest fixes we have left for it

 16:16:23 <smoser> please just be responsible with your blueprints. try to get them into a state that reflects where they actually are, remember that feature freeze is coming up, and ping jamespage, daviey, or I if you are concerned about their status.

 16:16:59 <smoser> release schedule at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule . feature freeze is March 7.

 16:17:06 <smoser> #Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:17:10 <smoser> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:17:13 <smoser> anyone have anything here ?

 16:18:09 <smoser> i think that jcastro is going to scale this week.

 16:18:36 <smoser> http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/

 16:18:46 <smoser> and talking ther eabout juju.

 16:18:49 <smoser> anyone have anything else ?

 16:19:01 <smoser> ok. moving on.

 16:19:05 <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:20:13 <smoser> this topic should probably be up for consideration on removal. doesn't seem to have been very busy recently.

 16:20:17 <smoser> moving on

 16:20:26 <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:20:32 <smb> Finally tracked down an elusive Xen bug that was paining Precise

 16:20:32 <smb> but potentially lurked around till now. That is currently going

 16:20:32 <smb> upstream and then back (bug 1011792).

 16:20:32 <smb> Not sure I got more beside my struggles with libvirt. ;-P Any

 16:20:32 <smb> questions?

 16:20:35 <ubottu> bug 1011792 in linux-lts-backport-oneiric (Ubuntu) "Kernel lockup running 3.0.0 and 3.2.0 on multiple EC2 instance types" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1011792

 16:20:50 <smb> ..

 16:21:21 <smoser> smb, i would love for you to fix my interest in providing 'console=ttyS0' everywhere on command lines and have that not screw things up when there is not ttyS0

 16:22:09 <smoser> most recently causing issues at 1122245

 16:22:20 <smb> smoser, I could imagine our method of fixing your interest might be incompatible...

 16:22:52 <hallyn> put the bat away....

 16:22:58 <smb> :)

 16:23:25 <smb> The problem seemed that the kernel itself has no issue... it is hard to tell user-space what to use...

 16:23:33 <smoser> smb, well, any ways i dream of fixing it from user-space are basically doomed.

 16:23:42 <smoser> as the kernel has this nice buffer on writes to /dev/console

 16:23:58 <smoser> so things work for a while, and then randomly faily.

 16:24:32 <smoser> so, its really toufh to come up with a way that user space could "fix" the situation  or work around it.

 16:25:13 <smoser> so, my request is really that you just try to think of a way that writes to /dev/console could never fail.

 16:25:52 <smb> smoser, I try to think on it. Though not promising too much

 16:26:27 <smoser> k

 16:26:38 <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:26:52 <smoser> (smb, thank you for being prepared for your section).

 16:27:54 <smoser> rbasak not present, moving on.

 16:28:01 <smoser> #topic Open Discussion

 16:28:16 <smoser> o. i have one topic here, that is "QA".

 16:28:24 <smoser> in 2 repsects

 16:28:39 <smoser> a.) should we change/remove/update that section of our meeting ? it seems not to have much in it.

 16:29:08 <smoser> b.) are we having a call for testing, and what should that mean ? what manual tests do we have around still ? what things should we ask people to test?

 16:29:40 <smoser> anyone have comments on that? i'm largely talking to myself today.

 16:29:40 <jamespage> most 'ISO' tests are now automated

 16:29:57 <jamespage> if we where going to call for testing I would think two things would be good

 16:30:15 <jamespage> 1) write dep-8 tests - we have a big list

 16:30:34 <jamespage> 2) exercise stuff off-piste - generalist testing

 16:30:58 <roaksoax> I think 1) makes lots of sense

 16:31:03 <roaksoax> to get the community engadged

 16:31:43 <hallyn> should we invite gema for this section?

 16:31:52 <hallyn> or have jamespage represent?

 16:32:24 <roaksoax> jamespage: represent!!

 16:32:25 <jamespage> hallyn, tbh some of the reason the dep-8 bp is going nowhere is that I'm focussed elsewhere

 16:32:25 <roaksoax> :)

 16:32:51 <hallyn> jamespage: perhaps we should be discussing that

 16:32:58 <arosales> smoser: m_3 will also join jcastro at scale11x this week.

 16:33:05 <hallyn> though of course, i doubt we'll find anyone not swamped right now

 16:33:17 <m_3> yeah, wasn't gonna correct anything

 16:33:19 <hallyn> but maybe the bp needs a team of 2-3 ppl

 16:33:26 <jamespage> yeah - its just down the priority list

 16:34:57 <smoser> ok. so in our "requeest for testing" we should generally ask people to test either ISO or cloud images and try to accomplish their generic specific work loads.

 16:35:01 <jamespage> hallyn, I think its a good point - if we are going to move to a rolling release inbetween LTS releases of server then knowing when stuff is bust is really importnat

 16:35:17 <smoser> hoping to have things fallout that are not found in our testing. and also request that if they are able to add dep-8 tests, that'd be wonderful.

 16:35:20 <jamespage> smoser, I think that would be great!

 16:35:31 <m_3> should we add in requests for charm testing (i.e., /tests dir in each charm)?

 16:35:48 <m_3> or is that best left separate?

 16:36:04 <smoser> i would leave that out of "Ubuntu server raring call for testing", m_3.

 16:36:18 <smoser> i dont think begging for such things is bad, but just that it doesn't fit there.

 16:36:23 <m_3> ack

 16:36:39 <smoser> jamespage, so do you think we should move you to the name in '()' for qa section ?

 16:37:02 <jamespage> smoser, no - I want direct engagement with the QA team in this meeting

 16:37:10 <jamespage> its been lacking and I think we a suffering for it

 16:37:33 <smoser> ok. so can you take an action there ? or do you want me to draft a mail requesting participation

 16:37:37 <jamespage> smoser, but I'll take an action to go discuss with gemma

 16:37:50 <smoser> #action jamespage discuss QA representation at Server TeamMeeting

 16:37:50 * meetingology jamespage discuss QA representation at Server TeamMeeting

 16:38:14 <smoser> i'm going to #endmeeting if noone has any objections?

 16:38:19 <roaksoax> i do

 16:38:23 <roaksoax> have something to bring up

 16:38:27 <roaksoax> I've been considering dropping HA support for OCFS2 with pacemaker/corosync. The soon to be released pacemaker 1.1.9 has improved performance for large clusters (up to 16 node clusters). However, this requires corosync 2.X. Upgrading would mean dropping the support for OCFS2 in Pacemaker/Corosync because OCFS upstream has not updated its code to support the changes that have been made on the corosync side. From [1], we currently support Option

 16:38:34 <roaksoax> [1]: http://theclusterguy.clusterlabs.org/post/34604901720/pacemaker-and-cluster-filesystems

 16:40:23 <smoser> roaksoax, i suggest raising on ubuntu-server and ubuntu-cloud

 16:40:39 <roaksoax> smoser: ack!

 16:40:49 <smoser> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:41:05 <smoser> next meeting is same time, same place, 7 days from now.

 16:41:24 <smoser> Tuesday 2013-02-26 at 1600 UTC

 16:41:33 <smoser> chair will be the honorable hallyn.

 16:41:37 <arosales> smoser: thanks for chairing

 16:41:40 <smoser> #endmeeting.

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
