{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
<pre>
[18:02] <heno> #startmeeting
[18:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 12:02. The chair is heno.
[18:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[18:02] <sbeattie> hey
[18:02] <heno> welcome everyone!
[18:02]  * cgregan waves
[18:02] <cr3> heno: hello
[18:03] <heno> agenda as usual: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
[18:04] <heno> Tomorrow we will be in final freeze
[18:04] <heno> which covers RC and final
[18:04] <heno> here are the main milestone bugs https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+bugs?field.milestone=1326
[18:05] <heno> (there is also a target of opportunity list at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+bugs)
[18:05] <heno> are there any bugs people know of that should be added to those lists?
[18:05] <heno> this would be a good time to promote those
[18:06] <mrooney> heno: I wonder about https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/145360
[18:06] <ubottu> Error: Could not parse data returned by Launchpad: The read operation timed out (https://launchpad.net/bugs/145360/+text)
[18:07]  * ara reads the list
[18:07] <davmor21> hello
[18:07] <mrooney> We seem to be getting a couple me-toos on compiz crashes on fresh installs or upgrades daily.
[18:08] <heno> mvo: ^ that's not milestoned. is that because it's been difficult to reproduce?
[18:09] <mvo> heno: yes
[18:09] <mvo> I looked at it myself and talked to upstream
[18:10] <heno> mvo: any hint that it's hw specific ?
[18:10] <mvo> I suspect its something that is either triggered during a session shutdown
[18:10] <heno> if so could we try to reproduce it in Montreal?
[18:11] <mvo> or that its something that is triggered during a upgrade, i.e. old compiz gets upraded to newer (abi incompatible) compiz
[18:11]  * cr3 addes #145360 to his list
[18:12] <mvo> the backtrace is really impossible to hit with the code
[18:12] <mrooney> I think mvo's comment #54 is pretty dead on, it happens after login but with no apparent effect, and it seems to happen just once or perhaps in a subsequent login and then doesn't happen again, until perhaps another update
[18:12] <mvo> so it must be a memory corruption
[18:12] <davmor21> mvo: i got to run an upgrade tomorrow on request so i can check for you then
[18:12] <mvo> of some sort, e.g. triggered by oddness with the plugin loading or unloading
[18:13] <mvo> davmor21: that would be excellent
[18:13] <mvo> davmor21: could you check /var/crash before the inital reboot?
[18:13] <heno> it seems that it's just a crash report (perhaps there was a crash at some point) but that compiz mostly works and no data is lost -> so it should not block release, but may be a target of opportunity if we can reproduce it
[18:14] <mvo> heno: my view exactly. its *old* too
[18:14] <davmor21> np's
[18:14] <heno> great, so we have davmor2 and cr3 offering to try reproducing
[18:14] <heno> any other issues people see?
[18:15] <mrooney> mvo: I think it may have been incorrectly duped with an old bug, I am not sure I would trust the original bug, I would look at recent dupes instead
[18:15] <mvo> mrooney: the trouble with this is that I can not get the new backtraces
[18:15] <schwuk> mvo: I've seen it as well (happened either yesterday or monday after my daily update)
[18:15] <ara> has anybody experienced this in intrepid? seahorse does not store WEP passwords by default anymore
[18:15] <mvo> mrooney: the retracer does not show them it seems
[18:15] <sbeattie> bug 275233 crops up a lot, but may be directly related to bug 274124 which Luke is at least working to reduce the race condition, if not eliminate it.
[18:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 275233 in libcanberra "canberra-gtk-play crashed with SIGSEGV in pa_operation_unref()" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/275233
[18:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 274124 in alsa-plugins "Race condition in pulseaudio loading for GNOME session" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/274124
[18:16] <mvo> schwuk: does the timestamp of the crashfile (roughtly) match your logout time?
[18:18] <heno> sbeattie: I've asked TheMuso to join us
[18:18] <heno> ara: is there a bug # for that?
[18:18] <ara> heno: I haven't found any, that's why I am asking
[18:18] <schwuk> mvo: yes, and I got the notification after logging back in
[18:19] <heno> cr3: do we have hw with a VIA 8237 sound card?
[18:20] <heno> as referenced in the alsa-plugin bug
[18:20] <cr3> heno: checking...
[18:21] <cr3> heno: yep, looks like it. I'll add 274124 to my list
[18:21] <mvo> schwuk: could you please check what compiz bits got upgraded (and from what version to what version?). if you used update-manager then synaptic file/history will tell you
[18:21] <heno> hm, seems to affect intel cards too though
[18:21] <heno> cr3: thanks
[18:22] <heno> ok, let's get back to this if Luke joins us later
[18:23] <heno> any other bugs before we move on?
[18:24] <sbeattie> did the manual partitioning bug get fixed?
[18:24] <schwuk> mvo: AFAICT, none
[18:24] <davmor2> mvo: any joy with the screensaver bug?
[18:24] <heno> there will be a need to test some of these fixes as they land
[18:25] <mvo> davmor2: yes, we have a fix that can be applied that will workaround the problem
[18:25] <mvo> davmor2: not ideal, but will work
[18:25] <heno> in the past we have tracked them here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/FixValidation
[18:27] <cjwatson> sbeattie: should be
[18:27] <cjwatson> that was bug 280900
[18:27] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 280900 in ubiquity "Intrepid daily-live won't install from desktop using manual partitioning" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/280900
[18:27] <heno> pedro_: you did some coordination of that last time, can you update the page for intrepid?
[18:27] <davmor2> ara: mine stored wep fine it was wpa that fell out a couple of times but that seemed to clear up
[18:28] <pedro_> heno: yup, i'll do it
[18:28] <cjwatson> sbeattie: one tester said it boots up veeeeeeeeeery sloooooooooowly for him now but that can't be anything to do with ubiquity
[18:28] <heno> I guess we just populate it with the milestone lists to start with
[18:28] <ara> davmor2: ok, weird, then
[18:28] <pedro_> alright
[18:29] <davmor2> schwuk: you got intrepid on your lappy right?
[18:29] <heno> and anyone who can hang around in #ubuntu-testing and hep with validation testing requests - that would be great
[18:29] <davmor2> cjwatson: I'll try it tomorrow it's worked for me each time I've done a manually install
[18:30] <schwuk> davmor2: YEP
[18:30] <heno> [TOPIC] iso.qa.ubuntu.com updates
[18:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  iso.qa.ubuntu.com updates
[18:30] <sbeattie> davmor2: I hit it last night
[18:30] <heno> stgraber: around?
[18:30] <heno> I added a JeOS request today
[18:30] <davmor2> sbeattie: I'll try it now infact
[18:30] <sbeattie> heno: yay! I knew I forgot something that needed to be removed.
[18:31] <sbeattie> davmor2: I'm trying again as well.
[18:31] <davmor2> sbeattie: you on hw or vm?
[18:31] <sbeattie> vm, but the disk has existing partitions.
[18:31] <heno> looks like the Mythubuntu and mobile/mid items are blocked on writing cases
[18:32] <sbeattie> heno: related, can you give me an action item to drop jeos and add the netboot isos to the dl-iso script?
[18:33] <heno> [ACTION] sbeattie to to drop jeos and add the netboot isos to the dl-iso script
[18:33] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sbeattie to to drop jeos and add the netboot isos to the dl-iso script
[18:33] <sbeattie> tnx
[18:33] <davmor2> sbeattie: the size of the netboot isos and the amount it is upgraded kind makes it pointless
[18:34] <heno> persia: can you help with the outstanding mobile test cases?
[18:34] <sbeattie> davmor2: it's more for consistency and a reminder to look at them than for saving any bandwidth.
[18:34] <davmor2> sbeattie: fair play and I do :)
[18:34] <heno> ah, the log tells me he added the requests :)
[18:35] <cjwatson> also the "Install a minimal virtual machine" mode on the server CD which is a direct replacement for JeOS
[18:36] <heno> cjwatson: I don't see it on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/ServerInstall
[18:37] <heno> I'll ask njaba to write it up
[18:37] <cjwatson> 's a bit new
[18:37] <heno> nijaba rather ^
[18:38] <heno> ok, next
[18:38] <heno> [TOPIC] RC ISO testing
[18:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  RC ISO testing
[18:38] <heno> Obviously, please prime your rsync caches, refresh your supply of blank CDs, etc.
[18:39] <heno> we'll probably see testable CDs Monday-ish
[18:39] <heno> davmor2: will you be doing some smoke testing running up to that?
[18:40] <heno> can anyone else contribute to that too?
[18:40] <davmor2> yes I need to update the smoke test wiki page it's starting to look a mess which is why I haven't
[18:40] <heno> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/DailySmoke
[18:41] <heno> davmor2: feel free to just flush it and start from current testing
[18:41] <davmor2> That was my plan
[18:42] <davmor2> I'm going to refresh it tonight.
[18:42] <heno> schwuk has set up a mirror-of-last-resort for ISO images
[18:42] <bdmurray> ara: maybe bug 281711
[18:42] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 281711 in network-manager "network-manager doesn't save wep key on a "system setting" connection" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/281711
[18:42] <heno> please contact him for access details
[18:43] <heno> this is to work around bw problems on cdimage in the testing crunch
[18:43] <heno> it's not for the wider public, just active pre-release testers
[18:44] <sbeattie> cjwatson: re bug 280900 is bug 282756 different? I hit the error 141 issue with daily iso build 20081015
[18:44] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 280900 in ubiquity "Intrepid daily-live won't install from desktop using manual partitioning" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/280900
[18:44] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 282756 in ubiquity "partman exited with code 141 (attempted manual partitioning)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/282756
[18:44] <heno> ok, next
[18:44] <ara> bdmurray: thanks, the discussion in here seems to be what I experience http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=934575
[18:44] <heno> [TOPIC] upgrade testing
[18:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  upgrade testing
[18:45] <heno> we should make a start on this earlier
[18:45] <heno> including preparations
[18:45] <heno> I've prepared a hardy kvm image here http://files.omma.net/kvm/
[18:46] <heno> it's a base install + updates and a bunch of extra packages
[18:46] <davmor2> schwuk: are you having issues with wep or wpa key being stored?
[18:46] <heno> feel free to download and extend that
[18:47] <heno> schwuk: did you get to setting up some upgrade KVM images?
[18:47] <heno> I intended to make 64-bit and kubuntu images too
[18:48] <heno> (but didn't get to it yet)
[18:48] <schwuk> heno: I have VMWare images for ubuntu hardy i386 and amd64. Base install on both. I'm putting together base kvm images for kubuntu and xubuntu (both archs).
[18:48] <sbeattie> heno: I've done a little upgrade testing; mvo is working on bug 282830 where etckeeper prevents update-manager from installing anything.
[18:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 282830 in update-manager "update-manager claims to do a release upgrade, but doesn't actually install packages" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/282830
[18:48] <schwuk> I also have images for ubuntu-server (amd64)
[18:49] <cr3> heno and schwuk: I used to maintain isv-image.ubuntu.com/vmware for hosting such images. it might be worth reviving the site to include kvm images too
[18:49] <heno> schwuk, sbeattie: ok great
[18:49] <sbeattie> I have a virtualbox i386 image that's base + lots of other packages mostly from main (~2500 in total) that I could make available.
[18:50] <mvo> sbeattie: hm, how long would it take for me to download that (i.e. what uplink do you have?)
[18:50] <sbeattie> mvo: a while; 640kb up.
[18:51] <heno> sbeattie: can you prepare a file list for him?
[18:52] <heno> dpkg -l | grep '^ii' | awk '{print $2}' > packages-list.txt
[18:52] <heno> or so
[18:52] <mvo> heno: I have the dpkg -l output in the bug I think
[18:52] <heno> mvo: can you recreate his install with that?
[18:53] <mvo> I should be able to, yes
[18:53] <heno> for i in `cat packages-list.txt`; do apt-get install $i; done;
[18:53] <heno> :)
[18:53] <heno> (yes I was playing with this earlier)
[18:54] <heno> let's wrap up, we have an LP-QA meeting just after this
[18:54] <sbeattie> heno: yes, dpkg -l output is in http://launchpadlibrarian.net/18507713/dpkg.list
[18:54] <mvo> heno: import apt; cache=apt.Cache(); for pkg in open("packages-list.txt"): cache[pkg].markInstall(); cache.commit();" <- will be faster :)
[18:54] <heno> any other business?
[18:54]  * mvo puts off his show-off hat
[18:54] <heno> mvo: yes, silly me ;)
[18:54] <bdmurray> mvo: sweet
[18:54] <mrooney> This may be unrelated but the OO 3.0 request bug is getting rather loud
[18:55] <mrooney> bug 267376
[18:55] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 267376 in openoffice.org "[Request] OpenOffice.org 3.0 in Intrepid ibex release" [Wishlist,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/267376
[18:55] <pedro_> eek
[18:55] <sbeattie> heno: I've been playing a bit with edos-debcheck looking for uninstallable packages, found a few, particularly around kde.
[18:55] <mrooney> Is there a definitive answer to give in some sort of appeasing way?
[18:55] <heno> there was talk of a universe package or so for that (?)
[18:55] <sbeattie> all outside of main
[18:56] <bdmurray> mrooney: I think calc has sent some mails to u-devel or u-devel-discuss about it
[18:57] <mrooney> bdmurray: do you know if it is a definitive no way on 3.0 in Intrepid?
[18:57] <heno> sbeattie: interesting - have you passed that on to motu-release?
[18:57] <sbeattie> heno: in progress, but yes. Looking to automate it so we can detect when new ones occur.
[18:58] <bdmurray> mrooney: I think it would be either in a ppa or in universe, but would check the ml to confirm.
[18:58] <heno> mrooney: as the default option, yes - no way
[18:58] <heno> we have freezes for good reasons even if it's not always obvious how these things work
[18:58] <heno> ok, we're done!
[18:58] <heno> #endmeeting
[18:58] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 12:58.
</pre>
