{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 26 Jan at 16:02 &mdash; 16:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-01-26-16.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

==== Xenial Development ====
The discussion about "Xenial Development" started at 16:05.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-x-server-core 
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:10)

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:11.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:12.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)" started at 16:13.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:14.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:16.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:17.

** ''ACTION:'' : Matsubara to research and answer whether we want to resume manual testing for i386

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:20.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* cpaelzer (45)
* meetingology (4)
* caribou (2)
* rbasak (2)
* smb (2)

=== Full Log ===

 16:02 <cpaelzer> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan 26 16:02:27 2016 UTC.  The chair is cpaelzer. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology> 

 16:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:03 <cpaelzer> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <cpaelzer> The only action item (IIRC) we had last week was for matsubara, so I'd try to cover that in the QA Team section

 16:03 <cpaelzer> anything else before we go step by step, so that I can keep track and we won't miss it later

 16:05 <cpaelzer> ok, that means we cover that later - I pined matsubara to join us already

 16:05 <cpaelzer> #topic Xenial Development

 16:05 <cpaelzer> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:06 <cpaelzer> the release is coming, as always :-)

 16:06 <cpaelzer> we still track major items for the Team in

 16:06 <cpaelzer> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-x-server-core

 16:06 <cpaelzer> rbasak: where there any changes to that?

 16:08 <cpaelzer> rbasak seems to be busy, might join in a few

 16:08 <cpaelzer> anyone else having updates on the assigned bugs there?

 16:09 <cpaelzer> an overview of bugs related to the server Team can always be found at

 16:10 <cpaelzer> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:10 <cpaelzer> ok, today seem to be a calm day in IRC, lets get on

 16:10 <cpaelzer> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:11 <cpaelzer> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:11 <cpaelzer> caribou: anything for us to share today?

 16:11 <caribou> cpaelzer: nothing on my side this week aside from the fact that I'm about to upload the nut merge

 16:11 <caribou> cpaelzer: should be done tomorrow

 16:12 <cpaelzer> caribou: every merge upload is a good step, thank you a lot!

 16:12 <cpaelzer> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:12 <smb> Nothing reportable from kernel-space... beside maybe that hopefully, there potentially might be a move to 4.4 somewhen this week...

 16:13 <cpaelzer> smb: great, anything big to expect from 4.4 that we would have to take a look at ?

 16:13 <smb> nothing that comes to my mind right now

 16:13 <cpaelzer> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)

 16:14 <cpaelzer> matsubara still isn't here, last week he had ISP issues for a while

 16:14 <cpaelzer> I'll try to call him after the meeting, anything else for QA that we should discuss/forward?

 16:14 <cpaelzer> that is a silent no

 16:14 <cpaelzer> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:15 <cpaelzer> there was a call for papers regarding "OpenStack Summit Austin"

 16:15 <cpaelzer> anyone participating in that or any other CFPs that are important?

 16:16 <cpaelzer> ok

 16:16 <cpaelzer> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:16 <cpaelzer> there is an upcoming Team sprint colocated with the MAAS Team, any other events that we should participate?

 16:17 <cpaelzer> ok, then anything else?

 16:17 <cpaelzer> #topic Open Discussion

 16:18 <rbasak> Sorry, I joined late.

 16:19 <rbasak> I don't really have anything to add, I don't think. Blueprint work continues, please follow your work items.

 16:19 <cpaelzer> ok, thats good - everyone seems heads down to get their stuff done

 16:20 <cpaelzer> since matsubara didn't have a chance today, we will keep last weeks action item

 16:20 <cpaelzer> #action: Matsubara to research and answer whether we want to resume manual testing for i386

 16:20 <cpaelzer> #action: Matsubara to research and answer whether we want to resume manual testing for i386

 16:20 * meetingology : Matsubara to research and answer whether we want to resume manual testing for i386

 16:20 <cpaelzer> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:20 <cpaelzer> next chair in the list would be thedac

 16:20 <cpaelzer> thedac: can you lead the meeting next week, same time as usual?

 16:22 <cpaelzer> ok, no need to keep you waiting

 16:22 <cpaelzer> I'll discuss with thedac (next in list) and beisner (head of the list, but on travel today) who will chair next week

 16:23 <cpaelzer> thanks rbasak, smb and caribou to making this not a 100% monologue :-)

 16:23 <cpaelzer> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
