{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** smoser to check with Odd_Bloke on status of high priority bug 1461242
* Wily Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

* smoser to check with Odd_Bloke on status of high priority bug 1461242
* OpenStack talk submissions are due tomorrow, July 15th

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Jul 21st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
<jgrimm> o/
<ddellav> o/
<thedac> o/
<arges> o/
<coreycb> Hello and welcome to this week's edition of the Ubuntu Server IRC meeting
<coreycb> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
<coreycb> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
<beisner> o/
<coreycb> there were no action points from the previous meeting
<matsubara> o/
<coreycb> #topic Wily Development
<coreycb> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
<coreycb> I can't tell if the bot is working
<coreycb> today is July 14
<coreycb> at least where I live it is
<coreycb> Alpha 2 is coming up in about 2 weeks on July 30
<beisner> jul 14 here too ;-)
<beisner> you are the bot
<coreycb> :)
<coreycb> and we're a little over a month until Feature Freeze for wily
<coreycb> which is Aug 20
<coreycb> #subtopic Release Bugs 
<coreycb> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
<coreycb> there are 3 high priority bugs, 2 of which are appear to be fixed or almost fixed
<coreycb> bug 1461242 is assigned to Odd_Bloke, not sure what the status of that bug is
<ubottu> bug 1461242 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Wily) "cloud-init does not generate ed25519 keys" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1461242
* sforshee (~sforshee@199-87-125-144.dyn.kc.surewest.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<coreycb> smoser, got any status on that?
* retoaded has quit (Quit: Signing off)
<coreycb> I'll make a note to check in with him and get some status in the meeting minutes
<coreycb> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
<smoser> coreycb, i do not. i'll take a look though
<coreycb> smoser, thanks
* Kilos has quit (Ping timeout: 246 seconds)
* dholbach has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
<coreycb> looks like caribou isn't here today
<coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
<matsubara> nothing new to report coreycb
<coreycb> matsubara, ok thanks
<coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) 
<smb> Nothing here... except its getting warm/hot again... Questions?
<coreycb> smb, ah yeah keep your fans running!
<smoser> i'll bother smb in #ubuntu-server some
<coreycb> ok, thanks smb, if nothing else let's move on
<coreycb> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
<coreycb> I think tomorrow is the deadline for openstack talk submissions for tokyo
<coreycb> yeah it's tomorrow, July 15
<coreycb> so get your talk submitted if you are planning to submit one
<coreycb> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
<coreycb> are there any upcoming events?
<coreycb> #topic Open Discussion
<coreycb> does anyone have anything else they'd like to discuss?
<arges> everything is great. keep up the good work
<beisner> coreycb, may be worth mentioning the 15.07 os-charm release/freeze dates
<coreycb> beisner, ah yeah that's going to be ~July 30th I believe
<coreycb> ^ release of next charms to stable
<coreycb> freeze is July 23rd
<coreycb> ok thanks everyone
<coreycb> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
<coreycb> July 21 16:00 UTC
<coreycb> #endmeeting
<beisner> thanks coreycbot
<matsubara> thanks coreycb
* jgrimm (~jgrimm@cpe-70-113-102-215.austin.res.rr.com) has left #ubuntu-meeting ("Leaving")
<coreycb> gaughen, you're up next week.  do you still want to be on the list of chairs?
<gaughen> coreycb, sure, np
<coreycb> gaughen, ok thanks
</pre>
