{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Nov 18 12:01:22 <charlie-tca>	#startmeeting
Nov 18 12:01:23 <MootBot>	Meeting started at 13:01. The chair is charlie-tca.
Nov 18 12:01:23 <MootBot>	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
Nov 18 12:01:40 <charlie-tca>	Since I seem to be the one that did that, I'll chair today
Nov 18 12:01:52 <charlie-tca>	TOPIC agenda
Nov 18 12:02:20 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] agenda
Nov 18 12:02:21 <MootBot>	New Topic:  agenda
Nov 18 12:02:26 <charlie-tca>	# Continue working with the new Governance structure
Nov 18 12:02:26 <charlie-tca>	# Changes for Natty Narwhal
Nov 18 12:02:26 <charlie-tca>	# login manager, GDM vs ???, a new one would be desirable - charlie-tca
Nov 18 12:02:26 <charlie-tca>	#
Nov 18 12:02:26 <charlie-tca>	New icon theme, elementary vs faenza - charlie-tca
Nov 18 12:02:26 <charlie-tca>	# Team updates (Packaging, Bug Triage, Development / Coding, Testing, Documentation, Artwork) 
Nov 18 12:02:54 <charlie-tca>	Hm, not quite the order I wanted. Let's start with Team updates
Nov 18 12:03:17 <charlie-tca>	developers, where we at in natty?
Nov 18 12:04:04 <mr_pouit>	inclusion of Xfce 4.7.x is in progress (a bit blocked currently because of some stupid stuff done by glib developers)
Nov 18 12:04:32 <charlie-tca>	Great! Are we staying with the same applications as maverick?
Nov 18 12:04:32 <mr_pouit>	almost all 4.8 core libs are already there
Nov 18 12:05:04 <mr_pouit>	I think so, unless someone has new things to propose to the ml
Nov 18 12:05:31 <charlie-tca>	Okay. Thanks, mr_pouit 
Nov 18 12:05:35 <charlie-tca>	website ?
Nov 18 12:05:50 <mr_pouit>	(there will probably be some issues because ubuntu is moving to gtk3 and we don't, but we'll see when they arise)
Nov 18 12:06:33 <charlie-tca>	anything else, mr_pouit ?
Nov 18 12:07:10 <mr_pouit>	no, that's all :p
Nov 18 12:07:13 <charlie-tca>	vinnl: there was some discussion of moving the website to wordpress. Is that still on-going?
Nov 18 12:07:37 *	HakanS has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
Nov 18 12:07:54 <vinnl>	charlie-tca, I don't know, I believe that was knome's initiative, I have not much to do with keeping the website running
Nov 18 12:08:19 <charlie-tca>	I had hopes you knew more than me... ;-)
Nov 18 12:08:28 <vinnl>	Hehe, sorry to disappoint
Nov 18 12:08:35 <charlie-tca>	Appears that is falling by the wayside, then. 
Nov 18 12:09:00 <charlie-tca>	Anyone here want to grab documentation? We really need to try and get that updated for Natty
Nov 18 12:09:13 <vinnl>	Wasn't Pasi working on an updated version with the new Xubuntu style?
Nov 18 12:09:19 <mhall119>	quick question, is Xfce upgrading to GTK3?
Nov 18 12:09:21 <vinnl>	(@website)
Nov 18 12:09:26 <charlie-tca>	As far as I know
Nov 18 12:09:39 <charlie-tca>	mr_pouit: what about gtk3?
Nov 18 12:09:56 <mr_pouit>	mhall119: no, 4.8 will use gtk2
Nov 18 12:09:59 <mhall119>	ok
Nov 18 12:10:01 <vinnl>	There was a discussion on the Xfce list about this today
Nov 18 12:10:20 <vinnl>	They wanted to wait until it's been released for a while so bugs have been ironed out
Nov 18 12:10:28 <mhall119>	works for me
Nov 18 12:10:32 <mr_pouit>	(ah, I didn't have the time to check my mails from today ;)
Nov 18 12:10:58 <mhall119>	how about settings, I thought I heard a while ago plans to move to dconf/gsettings
Nov 18 12:11:13 <vinnl>	They mentioned that too, same conversation
Nov 18 12:11:17 <mhall119>	ok
Nov 18 12:11:23 <vinnl>	They wanted to, eventually, but xfconf works fine, so they're not in a hurry
Nov 18 12:11:30 <mhall119>	do you happen to hav a link to that thread vinnl ?
Nov 18 12:11:43 <vinnl>	It's not the transition that's a lot of work, it's conversion of settings :)
Nov 18 12:11:47 <vinnl>	Ehm, let me look
Nov 18 12:12:00 *	ivanka is now known as ivanka-train
Nov 18 12:12:16 *	brianchidester has quit (Ping timeout: 240 seconds)
Nov 18 12:12:22 <vinnl>	mhall119, here: http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-November/028400.html
Nov 18 12:12:27 <mhall119>	thanks, cause that move is going to affect QImo
Nov 18 12:12:31 <charlie-tca>	[LINK] http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-November/028400.html
Nov 18 12:12:33 <MootBot>	LINK received:  http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-November/028400.html
Nov 18 12:13:23 <charlie-tca>	okay, moving on then
Nov 18 12:13:24 <charlie-tca>	http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-November/028400.html
Nov 18 12:13:26 <MootBot>	LINK received:  http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-November/028400.html
Nov 18 12:14:01 <charlie-tca>	Bugs and Testing: We are working to triage bugs as they come in. We are getting hit pretty hard on abiword right now
Nov 18 12:14:12 <charlie-tca>	Got to try and upstream those
Nov 18 12:14:35 <charlie-tca>	Testing will be ongoing, with the changes in Natty for Ubuntu, we need to try and test every day or two.
Nov 18 12:14:42 *	brianchidester (~brianchid@nat/canonical/x-dizfmjirwtyzjrrq) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 18 12:14:58 <charlie-tca>	I am running a full upgrade maverick to natty already, on my daily use machine
Nov 18 12:16:02 <charlie-tca>	Artwork: I have gotten with the community artwork team, they have drawn up a preliminary spec for us:
Nov 18 12:16:03 <charlie-tca>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/Request-7
Nov 18 12:16:11 *	thumper has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
Nov 18 12:16:22 <charlie-tca>	[LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/Request-7
Nov 18 12:16:23 <MootBot>	LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/Request-7
Nov 18 12:16:34 <charlie-tca>	If anyone has suggestions for that, I am open.
Nov 18 12:17:08 <charlie-tca>	Also, we are looking at replacing the elementary icon theme with faenza
Nov 18 12:17:13 <charlie-tca>	[LINK] http://shimmerproject.org/hg/faenza-xfce
Nov 18 12:17:15 <MootBot>	LINK received:  http://shimmerproject.org/hg/faenza-xfce
Nov 18 12:17:30 <charlie-tca>	It looks to be a very nice theme
Nov 18 12:17:37 <charlie-tca>	well, icon set
Nov 18 12:17:58 <charlie-tca>	any objections to replacing elementary?
Nov 18 12:18:05 *	thumper (~thumper@125-236-193-95.adsl.xtra.co.nz) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 18 12:18:05 *	thumper has quit (Changing host)
Nov 18 12:18:05 *	thumper (~thumper@canonical/launchpad/thumper) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 18 12:18:15 <vinnl>	Ehm
Nov 18 12:18:32 <TheSheep>	charlie-tca: I think that faenza has severe usability problems
Nov 18 12:18:36 <vinnl>	I recall reading on the faenza page that a lot of icons were missing, recently. Is that still the case?
Nov 18 12:18:41 <TheSheep>	charlie-tca: especially with the small icons
Nov 18 12:18:57 <thorwil>	hi, let me catch up
Nov 18 12:19:08 <TheSheep>	charlie-tca: in particular, all the icons have the same outline
Nov 18 12:19:28 <charlie-tca>	You mean, the squares?
Nov 18 12:19:37 <TheSheep>	yes
Nov 18 12:19:57 <mr_pouit>	yeah, for the completeness, I think ochosi is working on it (but he doesn't seem to be here now)
Nov 18 12:20:00 <charlie-tca>	The colors are great for visibility, though
Nov 18 12:20:01 <TheSheep>	plus, the icons are different than the default icons for most applications
Nov 18 12:20:04 *	JFo is now known as JFo-food
Nov 18 12:20:07 <thorwil>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/Request-7 is the work of j_baer, not the "team". well, and full of problems
Nov 18 12:20:16 <charlie-tca>	Yesw, they are different
Nov 18 12:20:18 <TheSheep>	I just spent a minute looking for gimp (I enabled faenza for test)
Nov 18 12:20:31 <charlie-tca>	thorwil: help?
Nov 18 12:21:08 <vinnl>	charlie-tca, also, about the spec - what Creative Commons license must submissions adhere to?
Nov 18 12:21:15 <vinnl>	-NC is quite restrictive
Nov 18 12:21:18 <thorwil>	charlie-tca: i'm Thorsten Wilms. you will remember that we talked about design and the need for differentiation and a strategy at UDS
Nov 18 12:21:23 <charlie-tca>	Yup
Nov 18 12:21:43 <charlie-tca>	I remember. I did not realize that spec was not good. 
Nov 18 12:21:48 <thorwil>	so the problem of that spec is that it is not based on any such thoughts
Nov 18 12:22:11 <charlie-tca>	should I email you and Saleel for this one?
Nov 18 12:22:27 <thorwil>	sure
Nov 18 12:22:29 <mhall119>	vinnl: IIRC, -NC isn't allowed in universe
Nov 18 12:22:36 <charlie-tca>	Glad you made it here. 
Nov 18 12:22:53 <thorwil>	unless you want to discuss the very definition of the project and the strategy right here :)
Nov 18 12:22:54 <vinnl>	mhall119, more reason to state that in the spec :)
Nov 18 12:23:21 <charlie-tca>	Okay, throw the spec page out for now. I will get the artists and get a real one drawn up. If anyone has ideas, we need them.
Nov 18 12:23:25 <mr_pouit>	I can't see where -nc is written…
Nov 18 12:23:36 <thorwil>	if CC, ask for plain CC or CC-SA
Nov 18 12:23:49 <vinnl>	mr_pouit, no, but no specific CC license is specified, which implies -NC is an option
Nov 18 12:23:51 <thorwil>	NC and ND don't belong
Nov 18 12:23:55 <vinnl>	Exactly
Nov 18 12:24:01 <mr_pouit>	yeah ok
Nov 18 12:24:03 <vinnl>	Ah yeah I meant ND, that's the worst clause :)
Nov 18 12:24:16 *	knome (~knome@ubuntu/member/knome) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 18 12:24:24 *	sbc has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
Nov 18 12:24:25 <knome>	'lo
Nov 18 12:24:30 <thorwil>	hi knome
Nov 18 12:24:33 <charlie-tca>	Hey , knome 
Nov 18 12:24:45 <charlie-tca>	We were just discussing possible specs for artwork 
Nov 18 12:25:06 <knome>	mm-hmm
Nov 18 12:25:29 <mr_pouit>	(well, with -nc you can't even put a screenshot of the desktop in a book/magazine…)
Nov 18 12:26:03 <charlie-tca>	apparently, I am in a pile of straw when it comes to it. thorwil is going to help draw up specs, I think
Nov 18 12:26:19 *	cking has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
Nov 18 12:26:55 <vinnl>	mr_pouit, I suppose that would fall under Fair Use, which I think most countries have? Still, it'd definitely be undesirable
Nov 18 12:27:15 <vinnl>	But okay, if a new spec is going to be written, this  can be something to keep in mind, no need to discuss it further I suppose
Nov 18 12:27:17 <thorwil>	knome: where i have been gently pushing, along with Saleel, to first have a clear definition of the xubuntu project. especially how it differentiates itself from ubuntu and other. why it is worthwhile
Nov 18 12:27:44 <thorwil>	knome: as these questions will lead to a message to get across via the artwork
Nov 18 12:27:59 <knome>	yes..
Nov 18 12:28:10 *	Keybuk has quit (Quit: Keybuk)
Nov 18 12:28:55 <charlie-tca>	vinnl: I think we can draw it up to give us the license we need submissions to fall under
Nov 18 12:29:21 <charlie-tca>	but right now, it seems to be "guess and pray" requests
Nov 18 12:29:46 <charlie-tca>	knome: thoughts on this?
Nov 18 12:29:57 <knome>	not really
Nov 18 12:30:05 <knome>	sounds doable
Nov 18 12:30:43 <thorwil>	i'v been told that the "lightweight" aspect often makes people think xubuntu would be only for old hardware. so instead, maybe emphasize performance?
Nov 18 12:30:56 <charlie-tca>	Do we need to have a separate meeting for this discussion to happen, or do it via mailing list/emails. I don't think thorwil and saleel are on the xubuntu lists
Nov 18 12:31:04 *	costales (~marcos@89.128.14.195) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 18 12:31:05 <thorwil>	and it seems xubuntu will be conservative compared to ubuntu
Nov 18 12:32:08 <charlie-tca>	I like the emphasize performance part
Nov 18 12:32:08 <knome>	charlie-tca, since there is not artwork team in xubuntu ATM, isn't it you who accepts or declines what thorwil and saleel have drafted?
Nov 18 12:32:32 <beardygnome>	i agree with thorwil, lightweight tends to give the wrong impression
Nov 18 12:32:45 <charlie-tca>	I guess it is. but I kind of take everyone's word on it, since I don't know all the in's and out's
Nov 18 12:33:07 <thorwil>	knome: ideally most of this would come from team members, while i just offer guidance
Nov 18 12:33:42 <knome>	thorwil, there is no such 'team members'
Nov 18 12:33:45 <charlie-tca>	knome: we still like to have input on it. You know more about licenses and what the artwork should represent than I do
Nov 18 12:35:09 <charlie-tca>	[ACTION] charlie-tca to get with thorwil and Saleel about artwork specs by email
Nov 18 12:35:11 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  charlie-tca to get with thorwil and Saleel about artwork specs by email
Nov 18 12:35:17 <knome>	imo if somebody wants his work in xubuntu, it should be no problem to publish the artwork in whatever license you ask for
Nov 18 12:36:27 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] login manager, GDM vs ???, a new one would be desirable
Nov 18 12:36:28 <MootBot>	New Topic:  login manager, GDM vs ???, a new one would be desirable
Nov 18 12:36:43 <mhall119>	why?
Nov 18 12:36:51 <knome>	charlie-tca, there has been talk about LightDM
Nov 18 12:37:20 <charlie-tca>	why? because we keep getting issues with GDM when they change things in Gnome
Nov 18 12:37:34 <mhall119>	LightDM uses webkit?
Nov 18 12:37:57 <charlie-tca>	I have been following the lightDM stuff. Does it use webkit?
Nov 18 12:38:06 <highvoltage>	yep, you can even try it in your web browser :)
Nov 18 12:38:09 <mr_pouit>	one of the greeters uses webkit
Nov 18 12:38:15 <highvoltage>	(well, the greeter, anyway)
Nov 18 12:38:28 <mhall119>	oh, appears there's a separate -webkit and -gnome versions
Nov 18 12:38:52 <charlie-tca>	gnome versions are what makes things difficult sometimes.
Nov 18 12:39:13 <charlie-tca>	mr_pouit: what about what is it ? lxdm?
Nov 18 12:39:16 <mhall119>	how about LXDE's new one?
Nov 18 12:39:20 <mhall119>	heh
Nov 18 12:39:43 <charlie-tca>	Wouldn't it make things easier than GDM?
Nov 18 12:39:53 <cyberanger>	I use SLiM myself
Nov 18 12:40:11 <mr_pouit>	I don't know, didn't try since a long time. But I trust lightdm to be better written ;]
Nov 18 12:40:58 <charlie-tca>	hm, it seems like lightdm is not quite ready. Can we get with Robert Ancell on it and see what is happening?
Nov 18 12:41:57 <charlie-tca>	Who wants to follow that up?
Nov 18 12:43:27 <charlie-tca>	[ACTION] Find out more information about LightDM 
Nov 18 12:43:28 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Find out more information about LightDM
Nov 18 12:43:42 <charlie-tca>	anything else on this subject?
Nov 18 12:43:45 <knome>	charlie-tca, maybe consider also asking xfce devs
Nov 18 12:44:00 <knome>	they could know something about that...
Nov 18 12:44:05 <charlie-tca>	I like that idea, too
Nov 18 12:44:12 <mr_pouit>	Robert Ancell sent a mail to xfce4-dev a few weeks ago iirc
Nov 18 12:44:25 <charlie-tca>	[ACTION] follow up with xfce devs on display managers
Nov 18 12:44:26 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  follow up with xfce devs on display managers
Nov 18 12:44:39 *	gnomefreak has quit (Quit: Gone for now)
Nov 18 12:45:17 <charlie-tca>	I will try to research it, then
Nov 18 12:45:26 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] Continue working with the new Governance structure 
Nov 18 12:45:27 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Continue working with the new Governance structure
Nov 18 12:45:33 <charlie-tca>	yes, this is on-going. 
Nov 18 12:46:01 <charlie-tca>	We are going to have to set up a vote of some kind to formalize a project lead so we can set up a governing council
Nov 18 12:46:10 <charlie-tca>	Does that make sense?
Nov 18 12:46:25 <charlie-tca>	suggestions for doing that?
Nov 18 12:46:36 *	cyberanger (~infocop41@opennic/infocop411) has left #ubuntu-meeting ("G2G, Interview time, ugh")
Nov 18 12:46:47 <vinnl>	How are the nominees going to be decided?
Nov 18 12:47:21 <knome>	charlie-tca, the thread about lightdm @xfce4-dev ml: http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-August/028200.html
Nov 18 12:47:27 <charlie-tca>	At this point, I am an interim Project Lead. We can ask for monimees through the mailing list again, and give a time frame for submissions, like about two weeks
Nov 18 12:47:36 *	ivanka-train has quit (Ping timeout: 250 seconds)
Nov 18 12:47:40 <charlie-tca>	Thanks, knome 
Nov 18 12:48:03 <charlie-tca>	[LINK] http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-August/028200.html
Nov 18 12:48:04 <MootBot>	LINK received:  http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-August/028200.html
Nov 18 12:48:28 *	vish has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
Nov 18 12:48:37 <charlie-tca>	two weeks appears to be the accepted time for submissions, doesn't it?
Nov 18 12:48:46 <vinnl>	I suppose it's long enough
Nov 18 12:49:41 <charlie-tca>	then we can ask for votes, either in a meeting like this, through the mailing list, throught the community council
Nov 18 12:49:58 <charlie-tca>	I just think we need to do something
Nov 18 12:50:31 <charlie-tca>	I also plan on a meeting every two weeks at this time, to keep everyone up to date on what is happening in Xubuntu
Nov 18 12:51:03 <charlie-tca>	any suggestions on how to select the project lead?
Nov 18 12:51:08 <vinnl>	Do you think attendance will be high enough with such frequent meetings?
Nov 18 12:51:22 <knome>	just see if any volunteers step up frist
Nov 18 12:51:23 <knome>	*first
Nov 18 12:51:25 <JanC>	BTW: the LightDM -gnome greeter is actually a Gtk greeter
Nov 18 12:51:41 <knome>	agreed with vinnl - once per two weeks is a bit too much
Nov 18 12:51:59 <charlie-tca>	How high does attendance need to be? If we get the team leads to give updates, that is a good meeting for updating everyone
Nov 18 12:51:59 <mhall119>	edubuntu does weekly meetings, I'm sure xubuntu can bring in at least as many people
Nov 18 12:51:59 <knome>	would have been too much even when we had a more active community
Nov 18 12:52:31 <charlie-tca>	um, you won't generate interest without creating something
Nov 18 12:52:38 <vinnl>	mhall119, how many does Edubuntu bring?
Nov 18 12:52:44 <vinnl>	Agreed
Nov 18 12:52:46 <charlie-tca>	we have tried without any meetings, and it falls way short
Nov 18 12:52:50 <mhall119>	vinnl: usuallly only a few
Nov 18 12:52:58 <mhall119>	but it's good to keep in touch and everyone up to date
Nov 18 12:53:01 <vinnl>	Yeah zero meetings is too few I suppose :P
Nov 18 12:53:07 <charlie-tca>	We get about 10 in QA, less in bugsqad meetings.
Nov 18 12:53:20 <charlie-tca>	Accessibility has what, about 5 or 6 regulars at the meetings?
Nov 18 12:53:49 <vinnl>	Then I suppose Xubuntu would be able to pull it off as well. Still, that's a lot of meetings during the cycle. Perhaps one in three weeks would be better?
Nov 18 12:54:11 *	mvo has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
Nov 18 12:54:17 <highvoltage>	even when there's only 1 or 2 people present at an edubuntu meeting I find it useful for making sure that at least *someone* knows what's been happeneing the last week :)
Nov 18 12:54:30 <vinnl>	Hmm yeah, sounds reasonable
Nov 18 12:54:40 <vinnl>	Would be very useful for the project lead at least, I suppose
Nov 18 12:54:49 <charlie-tca>	I figured two weeks at first, then if we want to, go to monthly. It is easier with regular schedules of 1 week, 2 weeks, 1 month, etc
Nov 18 12:55:01 <vinnl>	So if the project lead is willing to be there once every two weeks, I suppose it's fine
Nov 18 12:55:14 <mhall119>	weekly meetings are easy to remember
Nov 18 12:55:21 <charlie-tca>	I am thinking of every two weeks, on Thursday, 19:00 UTC
Nov 18 12:55:23 <mhall119>	no "is this a meeting week or not'
Nov 18 12:55:33 <mhall119>	if it's wednesday, I know there's an edubuntu meeting
Nov 18 12:55:56 <charlie-tca>	mhall119: you make a really good point
Nov 18 12:56:26 <charlie-tca>	I have enough people here, maybe. should we vote?
Nov 18 12:56:34 <mhall119>	some edubuntu meetings don't last very long, but it's good to have them so regularly
Nov 18 12:57:07 *	mvo (~egon@p5B09D45D.dip.t-dialin.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 18 12:57:40 <charlie-tca>	We could have two votes, I guess. one for weekly and one for two weeks apart. a yes vote is marked by +1, a no vote is -1
Nov 18 12:57:46 <charlie-tca>	everyone is allowed to vote
Nov 18 12:57:46 *	JFo-food is now known as JFo
Nov 18 12:58:01 <charlie-tca>	[VOTE] for weekly meeting
Nov 18 12:58:02 <MootBot>	Please vote on:  for weekly meeting.
Nov 18 12:58:03 <MootBot>	Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
Nov 18 12:58:03 <MootBot>	E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 18 12:58:14 <vinnl>	+1
Nov 18 12:58:15 <MootBot>	+1 received from vinnl. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
Nov 18 12:58:15 <mhall119>	+1
Nov 18 12:58:16 <MootBot>	+1 received from mhall119. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
Nov 18 12:58:20 <mr_pouit>	+1
Nov 18 12:58:20 <MootBot>	+1 received from mr_pouit. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
Nov 18 12:58:42 <beardygnome>	+0
Nov 18 12:58:42 <MootBot>	Abstention received from beardygnome. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
Nov 18 12:58:42 <charlie-tca>	-1
Nov 18 12:58:43 <MootBot>	-1 received from charlie-tca. 3 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
Nov 18 12:58:47 <knome>	-1
Nov 18 12:58:47 <MootBot>	-1 received from knome. 3 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
Nov 18 12:59:19 <charlie-tca>	Any other votes?
Nov 18 12:59:38 <charlie-tca>	[ENDVOTE]
Nov 18 12:59:40 <MootBot>	Final result is 3 for, 2 against. 1 abstained. Total: 1
Nov 18 13:00:09 <charlie-tca>	Now what do I do? should we vote for two weeks too?
Nov 18 13:00:19 <beardygnome>	yes
Nov 18 13:00:20 <knome>	vote for one month
Nov 18 13:00:39 *	costales has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
Nov 18 13:00:40 <charlie-tca>	[VOTE] for meetings every two weeks
Nov 18 13:00:41 <MootBot>	Please vote on:  for meetings every two weeks.
Nov 18 13:00:42 <MootBot>	Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
Nov 18 13:00:42 <MootBot>	E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 18 13:00:45 <charlie-tca>	+1
Nov 18 13:00:47 <MootBot>	+1 received from charlie-tca. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
Nov 18 13:00:54 <beardygnome>	+1
Nov 18 13:00:54 <MootBot>	+1 received from beardygnome. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
Nov 18 13:01:05 <mr_pouit>	+0
Nov 18 13:01:05 <MootBot>	Abstention received from mr_pouit. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
Nov 18 13:02:03 <vinnl>	+0
Nov 18 13:02:04 <MootBot>	Abstention received from vinnl. 2 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 2
Nov 18 13:02:22 <mhall119>	+0
Nov 18 13:02:23 <MootBot>	Abstention received from mhall119. 2 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 2
Nov 18 13:02:38 <charlie-tca>	[ENDVOTE] 
Nov 18 13:02:39 <MootBot>	Final result is 2 for, 0 against. 3 abstained. Total: 2
Nov 18 13:03:07 <charlie-tca>	I am not sure that did any good. If we have meetings every week, we get more attendance, it looks like.
Nov 18 13:03:33 <charlie-tca>	Some people will make every other meeting, which is great!
Nov 18 13:03:54 <charlie-tca>	I think the second vote was pointless. plan on meeting every week
Nov 18 13:04:10 <beardygnome>	charlie-tca: if you're happy to run the meeting every week then go with every week
Nov 18 13:04:35 <charlie-tca>	[AGREED] Xubuntu community meetings will be held every week on Thursday at 19:00 UTC
Nov 18 13:04:36 <MootBot>	AGREED received:  Xubuntu community meetings will be held every week on Thursday at 19:00 UTC
Nov 18 13:04:47 <highvoltage>	if weekly meetings doesn't work you can always fall back on not doing them :)
Nov 18 13:04:59 <charlie-tca>	If I miss a week, someone else should feel free to chair
Nov 18 13:05:10 *	Ursinha is now known as Ursinha-afk
Nov 18 13:05:26 <charlie-tca>	And now, 
Nov 18 13:05:30 <vinnl>	I'm not sure if  that's going to happen :P
Nov 18 13:05:36 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] Any other business
Nov 18 13:05:37 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Any other business
Nov 18 13:05:57 <charlie-tca>	going,
Nov 18 13:06:02 <mhall119>	is Xubuntu going to automatically benefit from the work being done to reduce the size of the Ubuntu ISO?
Nov 18 13:06:28 <charlie-tca>	Not necessarily. It depends on what they do
Nov 18 13:06:32 *	mvo has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
Nov 18 13:06:45 *	brianchidester has quit (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
Nov 18 13:06:49 <charlie-tca>	When they cut gimp, it did not help us
Nov 18 13:07:20 <charlie-tca>	going,
Nov 18 13:07:28 <mhall119>	they're dropping perl deps
Nov 18 13:07:33 <mhall119>	and re-building packages to be smaller
Nov 18 13:07:37 <mhall119>	optimizing images
Nov 18 13:07:38 <mhall119>	etc
Nov 18 13:07:48 <charlie-tca>	mr_pouit: that should help, right?
Nov 18 13:07:56 <mhall119>	https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/performance-desktop-n-install-footprint
Nov 18 13:08:15 <mr_pouit>	yeah, for the ones that are done automatically (png optimization)
Nov 18 13:08:17 <charlie-tca>	[LINK] https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/performance-desktop-n-install-footprint
Nov 18 13:08:18 <MootBot>	LINK received:  https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/performance-desktop-n-install-footprint
Nov 18 13:08:37 <mr_pouit>	(and also removal of packages' changelogs)
Nov 18 13:09:18 <charlie-tca>	I want to thank all of you for attending. Let's continue next week! :-)
Nov 18 13:09:30 <charlie-tca>	mhall119: does that work?
Nov 18 13:09:31 <mhall119>	same day/time?
Nov 18 13:09:40 <mhall119>	charlie-tca: does what work?
Nov 18 13:09:49 <charlie-tca>	the answer from mr_pouit 
Nov 18 13:09:56 <mhall119>	oh, yeah, thanks
Nov 18 13:10:10 <charlie-tca>	Next meeting Thursday 19:00 UTC
Nov 18 13:10:19 <charlie-tca>	#endmeeting
Nov 18 13:10:20 <MootBot>	Meeting finished at 14:10.
Nov 18 13:10:20 <mhall119>	I'll be bugging you guys a lot more in the next 5 months, for sure
Nov 18 13:10:29 <charlie-tca>	Works for us
Nov 18 13:10:49 <mhall119>	should I hang out in #xubuntu or #xubuntu-devel?
Nov 18 13:10:49 <vinnl>	Thanks for chairing charlie-tca
Nov 18 13:10:58 <beardygnome>	thankc charlie-tca
Nov 18 13:11:00 <charlie-tca>	mhall119: #xubuntu-devel
Nov 18 13:11:05 <beardygnome>	*thanks
Nov 18 13:11:08 <mr_pouit>	mhall119: -devel if it's for development related questions :P
Nov 18 13:11:12 *	vish (~Vish@ubuntu/member/vish) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 18 13:11:15 <mhall119>	ok, thanks
Nov 18 13:11:16 <charlie-tca>	You are welcome. 
</pre>
