{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=07&day=21&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jul 21st 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold

=== Not present ===
* chrisccoulson

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Reinhard Tartler (siretart) provided a package for trusty for libav (LP: #1341216)
 Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job!
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: community
** !AppArmor testing
** performance reviews
** pending updates
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** new updates
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor
*** testing and anything else in support of abstract socket landing
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor
*** upstream patches for multiple policy cache dirs
*** once abstract socket patches are ready, integrate into Ubuntu
** jjohansen
** !AppArmor
*** abstract sockets
*** collect some patches for upstream
** sarnold
** weekly role: triage
** MIRs
*** librevenge
*** trust-store
*** webrtc-audio-processing MIR; if there's any spare 
** !AppArmor patch reviews
** chrisccoulson (status given after the meeting)
** update for firefox and thunderbird
** update for oxide
** sponsored update for chromium-browser
** bug:1326070 - Add support for context menus
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-07-21-16.34.html
