{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

12:19	Kamion	we should probably get started even though mako's not around
12:19	Kamion	(properly)
12:20	Kamion	I don't know about anyone else but it's pretty late here and I'm already tired
12:20	Seveas	+1
12:20	Kamion	so the first item on the agenda is:
12:20	Kamion	Continuing the IRC network discussion
12:20	Kamion	can I go and hide now?
12:20	Seveas	that's still waiting on a sabdfl-aware meeting
12:20	Kamion	all right then
12:20	Hobbsee	surely that's not being discussed again :P
12:20	Kamion	#
12:20	Kamion	Call for nominations for the "Localisation / Translation Team Leader". We would like to call for folks to volunteer to be considered as the coordinator of Ubuntu translation efforts using Rosetta. This person would keep in touch with translation teams, coordinate with Jordi and Carlos w.r.t. Rosetta developments, and coordinate with Martin and Doko w.r.t. language pack development.
12:20	Kamion	    *
12:20	Kamion	      For next meeting danilos, OgMaciel and carlos will be providing a more complete 'Job Description'
12:21	Kamion	    *
12:21	Kamion	      I'd like to apply for this position. OgMaciel
12:21	Kamion	OgMaciel: here?
12:21	OgMaciel	Kamion, yup
=== kwwii [n=kwwii@p5495500E.dip.t-dialin.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
=== steppe [n=steppe@Home0.HomeNet.Odessa.UA] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:21	Kamion	I'm pinging Jordi and danilos on the off-chance that they might be around this late
12:21	Kamion	since they haven't provided the promised job description yet
12:21	OgMaciel	Kamion, I sure hope so
12:21	Seveas	I pinged jordi a few minutes ago, no response
12:22	Seveas	dailos is danil[out]
12:22	OgMaciel	Kamion, they've emailed the CC a document
12:22	OgMaciel	Kamion, the document contains all the details
12:22	elmo	no they haven't
12:22	elmo	oh, carlos has
12:22	OgMaciel	elmo, I was cced on this
12:22	OgMaciel	yup
12:23	Kamion	ah yes, found it
12:23	OgMaciel	;)
12:23	Kamion	http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/tmp/ubuntu-l10n-coordinator.txt for reference
12:24	Surak	Kamion: 403
12:24	Kamion	it should go somewhere more permanennt
12:24	Kamion	Surak: fixed, thanks
12:24	Ubuntuser	done
12:25	elmo	do we have any other volunteers/nominations yet?
12:26	pygi	EdgyEft, how can one found out what positions exist/are open? I remember reading it somewhere before :P
12:26	pygi	elmo*
12:26	elmo	ehm
12:26	elmo	that's kind of a good point -has  this job description been mailed anywhere?
12:27	gnomefreak	i thought it was on ubuntu.com somewhere pygi
=== BHSPitMonkey [n=stephen@adsl-68-95-246-24.dsl.rcsntx.swbell.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:27	Seveas	elmo, not that I know of
12:27	bddebian	I have GOT to get home...
12:27	Kamion	if you guys are thinking of http://www.ubuntu.com/employment, it's not there (and shouldn't be, it's not a paid position) - I don't know of any other list of "open positions"
12:27	mako	back all
12:27	Seveas	it might be a good idea to post it on -users and/or an announce mailing list
12:27	Seveas	wb mako
12:28	pygi	Kamion, I thought it was somewhere under special part of ubuntu
12:28	pygi	ubuntu.com
=== Kamion pokes through a few mailing lists
12:28	bddebian	Kamion, elmo, mako: Apologies for butting in but i have to leave.  Please give +1 to welshbyte, Fujitsu, and trappist for me.
12:28	Kamion	pygi: feel free to find it
12:28	Surak	Kamion: are those paid positions subject to scrutinity in a CC Meeting?
12:28	jono	Kamion, I think a list of open positions would be a good idea :)
12:28	pygi	Kamion, well, I don't think it is there anymore :)
12:28	trappist	bddebian: thanks
=== pygi agrees with jono 100%
12:29	elmo	Surak: no
12:29	elmo	Surak: Ubuntu isn't paying them
12:29	jono	I will add it to my list :P
12:29	mako	Surak: just can pay anyone to work on any part of ubuntu you'd like
12:29	mako	Surak: so can mark
12:29	Seveas	<pedantic> then the jobs should probably on canonical.com instead of ubuntu.com </pedantic>
12:29	jono	Surak, canonical pays those positions
12:29	mako	Seveas: they really should
12:30	elmo	ok, so before we go any further with this translator thing, can we get the call and description mailed somewhere, and maybe put on the website
12:30	mako	or at least presented in a way that makes it clear that those are canonical jobs related to ubuntu and other people should be able to advertise jobs there
=== mruiz [n=mruiz@pc-64-66-104-200.cm.vtr.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:30	Seveas	elmo, ok, I'll mail it to -users and prod mdke for website
12:30	imbrandon	mako, +1
12:30	elmo	Seveas: which -users?
12:31	elmo	there's a rosetta-users or launchpad-users or something
12:31	Kamion	why -users?
12:31	Kamion	surely ubuntu-translators is the right list
=== josevitor [n=josevito@201.72.98.95] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:31	Seveas	launchpad-users I meant
12:31	Seveas	ubuntu-translators is fairly dead
12:31	Kamion	ubuntu-translators, cc to rosetta-users, perhaps
12:31	Seveas	ack
12:31	Kamion	Seveas: the mailing list archives show active debates
12:31	Seveas	hmm
12:31	Kamion	I mean not *lots*, but more than dead
=== Seveas should check whether he is still subscribed then
12:32	jenda	fairly dead doesn't mean no one reads them
12:33	Seveas	anyway, sending it to those lists sounds like a much better idea than mine so I'll do that
=== simira [n=simira@tellus.err.no] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:34	elmo	ok - so let's revisit that next meeting then after we've had a chance to actually get some nominations/volunteers :)
12:34	elmo	what's next?
=== mako nods
12:34	elmo	any locoteam folks here?
12:34	Kamion	phone
12:34	mako	right
12:35	mako	any local communities who are on the list AND present should speak up to introduce themselves
12:35	Seveas	should we at some point prune old loco/member items from the agenda?
12:35	Seveas	as you can see, a few are on the agnda for months now
12:35	mako	yes
12:36	mako	that's probably a good idea
12:36	mako	alright then
12:36	jono	by the way, I am going to be working on LoCo teams
12:36	elmo	Seveas: could you mail the older ones explaining why and then prune them?
12:36	Seveas	elmo, ack
12:36	elmo	Seveas: (nicely ;-)
12:36	mako	jono: be careful how much you take on right away :)
12:36	jono	I am hoping to clear up LoCo teams a bit
12:36	elmo	Seveas: cool, thanks
12:36	jono	mako, heh, step by step :)
=== Seveas does a happy dance for jono
12:36	elmo	ok, so new member applicants
12:36	mako	jono: i've had much of your job before, i know this :)
12:36	jono	Seveas, :)
=== nixternal puts a fence around Ubuntu Chicago - no pruning needed here ;)
12:37	elmo	first of all, sound off if you're a new member applicant and here
12:37	trappist	here
12:37	Seveas	CypherBIOS seems to be the first on the list who is here
12:37	EtienneG	here
12:37	gnomefreak	nixternal: wasnt that oked?
12:37	jono	here
12:37	welshbyte	here
12:37	CypherBIOS	I am,
12:37	CypherBIOS	here
12:37	Seveas	I'll try and poke ones that are unfindable atm
12:37	ompaul	Seveas, flannel is mia
12:37	mako	best to at least mention their names here
12:37	mako	RolandoBlanco whitesoft, no here?
12:37	Seveas	no
12:38	mako	Kirjanov Denis kirjanov, not here?
=== josevitor [n=ubuntu@201.72.98.95] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:38	mako	NealBussett Flannel, we've just heard is not here
12:38	mako	Ahmad Muammar y3dips, not here?
12:38	mako	Rafael Proena CypherBIOS: you're up
=== CypherBIOS here
12:38	Seveas	-SeenServ- I haven't seen y3dips recently
12:38	Seveas	same for kirjanov
12:39	mako	CypherBIOS: have your introduction ready?
12:39	CypherBIOS	mako: yep
12:39	mako	if others in line do not yet have a short intro typed up for pasting, please get that ready
12:39	CypherBIOS	My name is Rafael Proena, aka CypherBIOS.
12:39	mako	we'll go in order but people may not be here so you may up sooner than you think
12:39	mako	CypherBIOS: please, go ahead
12:39	CypherBIOS	mako: tnx
12:39	CypherBIOS	First, here is the links for my WikiPage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CypherBios
12:39	CypherBIOS	and in the launchpad https://launchpad.net/people/cypherbios
12:39	CypherBIOS	There is complete explanation about me, my work and contributions on the web, but here goes a summary:
=== Fujitsu [n=fujitsu@203.23.49.35] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:39	CypherBIOS	(to economize space, see all links that I mention in my WikiPage)
12:39	CypherBIOS	I'm working with/to/in Ubuntu since Warty, using the Hoary beta.
12:40	CypherBIOS	My principal contribuition with Ubuntu is in the Brazilian Community, where I've created, with the help of some amazing people, the Ubuntu Brazilian Documentation Team that now is one of the major teams and force within the Brazilian Community.  I'm also the organizer and mantainner of the structure of Wiki Ubuntu Brazil.
12:40	CypherBIOS	Organizer and mantainner of the structure of Wiki Ubuntu Brazil. I got the power to move/remove the pages ;)
12:40	CypherBIOS	I am a Planet Ubuntu Brazil autor, where I post some articles and news about Ubuntu to keep the community up-to-date.
12:40	CypherBIOS	I've helped vdepizzol and others to organize and migrate the www.UbuntuBrasil.org interface and estructure. Making the usability work together with praticity :)
12:40	CypherBIOS	I'm developing a GUI-based tool called APTonCD, this is developed in Python and GTK for Ubuntu. To know more about the project, see http://aptoncd.sourceforge.net
12:41	OgMaciel	cyphase, don't forget about APTonCD <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/APTonCD>
12:41	CypherBIOS	basic... is it ;) sorry for the flood
12:41	OgMaciel	CypherBIOS, , don't forget about APTonCD <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/APTonCD>
12:41	CypherBIOS	OgMaciel: tanks
12:41	elmo	CypherBIOS: ehm, you wrote your own planet rather than use the existing one?
12:41	CypherBIOS	elmo: no, use thee existing
12:41	OgMaciel	elmo, that was actually done by Meyer
=== DBO [n=DBO@unaffiliated/dbo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== licio is now known as Spl4y
12:42	elmo	I'm confused.  is it the same source code as the planet used on planet.ubuntu.com?  i.e. the one written by Scott + Jdub
12:42	Kamion	ok, sorry, back; was catching up with mdz-land
12:42	Seveas	no, -br uses a php based planet
12:42	elmo	if it is - what do you meant by author.  if it's not - why?
12:42	OgMaciel	elmo, no... it is written from scratch by Meyer
12:42	elmo	boggle
12:42	elmo	ok
12:42	OgMaciel	elmo, he is syndicated
12:42	OgMaciel	:)
12:43	Ubuntuser	elmo, called Phplanet..
12:43	elmo	oh, what a confusing use of the word "author"
12:43	elmo	anyway, I get it now, don't mind me
12:43	OgMaciel	:)
12:43	CypherBIOS	elmo: sorry ;)
12:43	Seveas	OgMaciel, (or any other -br member) -- we need some testimonials
12:43	OgMaciel	Seveas, mine is at his wiki page
12:44	OgMaciel	Seveas, he has my 100% support
12:44	Seveas	ah, didn't finish the entire page yet
12:44	elmo	CypherBIOS: you might want to change "Author of Ubuntu Brazilian's blog agregator." on your wiki page to "Author on" to make it less confusing
12:44	Seveas	well done, collecting testimonials there
12:44	Surak	Ubuntu Documentation Team is going really fine.
12:44	Ubuntuser	Seveas, i cannot put my testimonial.. but CypherBIOS have my 100% too
12:44	CypherBIOS	Seveas: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CypherBios
12:44	OgMaciel	CypherBIOS, has brought in a great group of individuals and created a great infra-structure of documentation
12:44	CypherBIOS	elmo: I'll
12:45	Surak	Seveas: same as ubuntuser. I support CypherBIOS fully.
12:45	CypherBIOS	Ubuntuser, OgMaciel, Surak: tanks
=== OgMaciel urges elmo mako Kamion and Seveas to check out https://wiki.ubuntu.com/APTonCD
=== Fujitsu_ [n=Fujitsu@203.23.49.35] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:46	AndreNoel	cypher is doind a great great great work with doc
12:46	josevitor	idem
12:46	elmo	hmm, rosetta got a lot more shiny
12:46	Surak	Documentation team seems today one of the most active parts of the Brazilian LocoTeam work.
12:47	Seveas	OgMaciel, at the risk of going offtopic -- I've been implementing a similar thing recently -- if interested, let's talk after the meeting
12:47	AndreNoel	i think that brazilian doc team needs CypherBIOS
12:47	OgMaciel	Seveas, great... we have a good team behind it too
12:47	LinuxBA	here
12:47	CypherBIOS	Seveas: I interested, I will
12:47	mako	this all looks great
12:47	mako	i'm happy with membership
12:48	Seveas	couldn't agree more
12:48	OgMaciel	josevitor has asked to me to state on his behalf that he supports CypherBIOS
=== KurtKraut [n=ktk@unaffiliated/kurtkraut] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:48	CypherBIOS	mako: tanks
12:49	elmo	yeah, ack from me too
12:49	OgMaciel	CypherBIOS, congrats buddy!
12:49	Seveas	OgMaciel, not yet ;)
12:49	jono	:)
12:49	LinuxBA	CypherBIOS, congrats
12:49	Ubuntuser	CypherBIOS, parabns em bom portugus! :)
12:49	OgMaciel	Seveas, ooops
12:49	AndreNoel	hehe
12:49	OgMaciel	Seveas, slippery finger
12:49	Surak	Easy people ;-)
12:49	OgMaciel	hehehe
12:49	Seveas	Kamion, still has to give his ok
12:50	CypherBIOS	Seveas, mako, elmo, Kamion: so, I'm aboard?
12:50	Kamion	sorry, conversations with mdz tend to require a fair bit of follow-up - yes, ack for CypherBIOS
12:50	AndreNoel	congrats CypherBIOS!!
12:50	Seveas	CypherBIOS, NOW you are ;)
12:50	OgMaciel	CypherBIOS, NOW congrats buddy!
12:50	mako	alright
12:50	Surak	Now congrats!
12:50	CypherBIOS	Kamion: tanks ;)
12:50	OgMaciel	:)
12:50	Seveas	congratulations!
12:50	jono	CypherBIOS, congrats! :)
12:50	AndreNoel	Yo!
12:50	Ubuntuser	:)
12:50	CypherBIOS	Seveas: ;)
12:50	mako	Brendon Toogood Brendon8
12:50	mako	around around?
12:50	Surak	Parabns rapaz!
12:51	CypherBIOS	Tanks for all ;D
12:51	josevitor	yeeeeeehhhhhhhhhhhh!
12:51	AndreNoel	Yip Yip Hurra!
12:51	Seveas	brendon8 is MIA
12:51	CypherBIOS	Surak: valeu!
12:51	LinuxBA	uahuahauhauhauhauha
12:51	mako	Rocco Stanzione trappist: you're up
12:51	Ubuntuser	Yip Yip hurra.. is good!
12:51	josevitor	Viva viva viva!
12:51	trappist	hi
12:51	Ubuntuser	hehe
12:51	josevitor	Bravo!!
12:51	guilhermee	CypherBIOS, good job :)
12:51	mako	calm down guys ;)
12:51	Seveas	-br folks: please calm down
12:51	trappist	so, paste an intro?
12:51	mako	trappist: please,
12:51	guilhermee	Seveas, sorry :P
12:51	trappist	Hi I'm Rocco Stanzione.  I started out on redhat 6 in 1999, moved to mandrake a couple of years later.
12:51	trappist	I was active in Mandrake, a member of the "club" and of the security team.  I switched to Debian about
12:51	Ubuntuser	Seveas, one more to family
12:51	trappist	2 years ago for political and professional reasons and liked it a lot.  I tried Ubuntu just after
12:51	trappist	breezy was released and decided, hopefully for the last time, that this was the distro for me.  Since
12:52	trappist	then I've been active in the community on as many fronts as I'm capable of contributing to, and maybe
12:52	trappist	1 or 2 more ;)  I'm on the doc team where I made decent contributions to the serverguide and have
12:52	trappist	proofread extensively, and I'm in the process of writing a securityguide.  I peruse bugs often, and
12:52	trappist	try to fix any that I can.  I have a partial list of bugs to which I've uploaded patches, if you like.
12:52	trappist	I also report bugs, help out on #ubuntu and #kubuntu, and make occasional contributions to the wiki.
12:52	trappist	I'm the author of ipkungfu, the new version of which I'm working on getting packaged, and I run
12:52	trappist	#iptables on freenode.  In real life I currently work for an airline consultancy, running the network
12:52	trappist	and helping to write applications for airlines to manage their maintenance programs, FAA compliance
12:52	trappist	documentation, etc.  I have a wife and a daughter, both of whom are surprisingly supportive of the
12:52	trappist	time I spend working on geek stuff like ubuntu.
=== Seveas does some cheering for trappist because of his bug work
=== trappist thanks Seveas after some recent headbutting
=== jenda joins in because of the support in #ubuntu (he helped me once ;))
12:53	Lure	yep, trappist does a great job on bugs
12:53	gnomefreak	trappist: has been helping out in kubutnu more and more and he just like 3 minutes ago helped someone in -bugs :)
12:53	gnomefreak	+1 for trappist
12:54	ompaul	+1 trappist for general support I have seen him do
12:54	LaserJock	trappist helped out quite a bit with the Dapper documentation doing proofreading and making sure we had a consistent style
12:54	imbrandon	+1 from trapist from me too
12:54	imbrandon	s/from/for
12:55	Riddell	trappist has been known to fill my inbox with kubuntu related bug triage, which I'm all for
12:55	Kamion	that's a lot of bug karma
12:55	Hobbsee	quick!  lets spam Riddell's inbox some more!
12:55	imbrandon	hehe
12:55	jono	Hobbsee, woo!
12:55	trappist	Riddell: I wouldn't have thought you'd notice :)
12:55	Seveas	Kamion, bug karma increases quickly since recently
=== sng [n=sng@unaffiliated/scarynetworkguy] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:56	Seveas	mine has had a few 100k more than just a few weeks ago
12:56	gnomefreak	my understanding its gonna be changing alot
12:56	trappist	is it also gonna be documented a lot? I have no idea how it works
12:56	imbrandon	yea i went from 15k to 190k in like 2 weeks reciently
12:56	Seveas	not saying that trappist isn't doing a great job, because he really is doing a great job
12:56	Surak	Mine has multilplied by 3 some time ago.
12:57	CypherBIOS	Surak: mine too ;)
12:57	mako	trappist: i like the public key on your wiki page
=== crimsun [n=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== AlexRocha [n=AlexRoch@201.73.169.8] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:58	gnomefreak	trappist: what names are LP and wiki under?
12:58	trappist	gnomefreak: https://launchpad.net/people/trappist and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RoccoStanzione
12:58	gnomefreak	ty had them backwards :(
12:59	Seveas	(gnomefreak: links are on the CC agenda page)
12:59	elmo	ack from me for trappist
01:00	Seveas	\o/
01:00	trappist	that was a +3 from Seveas I think
01:00	imbrandon	lol
01:00	jenda	...but he doesn't count.
01:00	Seveas	trappist, only CC members can +1/-1 people
01:01	trappist	Seveas: oh, I thought you were :)
01:01	nixternal	trappist: i swore you were a member already ;)   we need trappist, he is hookin' up the docs!!
01:01	Seveas	I'm not -- The CC members are mako, Kamion, elmo and sabdfl
=== steppe [n=steppe@Home0.HomeNet.Odessa.UA] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:01	Kamion	yup, +1 on trappist from me as well
=== josevitor [n=ubuntu@201.72.98.95] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
01:03	Seveas	trappist, you might need to bribe mako ;)
01:03	trappist	I'm not above it
01:03	ompaul	trappist, the rest are people saying your not a bad person or words to that effect
=== sng [n=sng@unaffiliated/scarynetworkguy] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
01:04	trappist	ompaul: gotcha.  they're much appreciated :)
01:04	Surak	mako hitchcock :-)
01:04	Ubuntuser	:)
01:04	trappist	m/sg mako let's work out a deal
01:04	welshbyte	the suspense... :)
01:05	Spl4y	*fear*
01:05	Ubuntuser	Mako Sthephen King
01:05	Ubuntuser	hehehe
01:05	OgMaciel	:P
01:05	trappist	I think I'm gonna hurl
01:05	Surak	welshbyte: hold your heart to your own time :-)
01:05	mako	yes, sounds fine :)
01:05	mako	sorry about that
01:05	Seveas	trappist, welcome aboard!
01:05	mako	i am trying to juggle a GPLv3 meeting that is going on concurrently
01:05	Ubuntuser	\o/
01:05	trappist	woohoo!  thanks everybody!
01:06	Fujitsu_	Ouch, mako.
01:06	Surak	Congrats Rocco!
01:06	trappist	Surak: thanks
01:06	mako	i'm mostly just watching over there but but they just asked my opinion about something :)
01:06	Seveas	heh
01:06	LinuxBA	trappist, Congrats
01:06	nixternal	congratulations trappist!!!   lets go do some KUbuntu docs now...we only have 9 more days until our freeze ;)
01:06	mako	Andy Price welshbyte
01:06	Spl4y	trappist, congrats :)
01:06	Ubuntuser	Congratulations trappist
01:06	mako	welshbyte: you around?
01:06	welshbyte	ok here goes :)
01:06	jenda	congratulations ;)
01:06	trappist	much thanks everybody
01:06	welshbyte	My name is Andy Price [wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndyPrice , LP: https://launchpad.net/people/andy-price ]  I'm 23 (24 in a couple of days) and I'm going into the second year of a Computer Science degree course at Swansea University.
01:07	gnomefreak	congrats trappist
01:07	welshbyte	I've been using GNU/Linux systems for about 4 years. I worked my way through a handful of distros including Mandriva and Fedora before finally settling on Ubuntu around the time of Hoary. Now even my Mother uses Ubuntu, which has given me great insight into usability issues from a non-technical perspective.
01:07	welshbyte	Last year I was president of Swansea University Computer Society (of Alan Cox fame) and this year I'm its treasurer. Along with that, I've also been a systems admin for the society - we run web/email/ftp/etc services from a small room on campus. We have about 150 members and we always keep a stock of Ubuntu CDs in our computer room to offer to members.
01:07	welshbyte	I am the maintainer of a python/glade easy-backup application called pybackpack which I resurrected from a 2005 Google Summer of Code project which was pronounced "dead". It needs a lot of cleaning up but it has good potential.
01:07	welshbyte	I filed my first Ubuntu bug last October and started irregular sessions of bug triage shortly after that, hanging out on #ubuntu-bugs and lurking on other Ubuntu channels out of interest. A couple of months ago I taught myself how to package debs and about a month ago I started participating in #ubuntu-motu along with #ubuntu-bugs and with more regularity than before. Since then I have been triaging bugs and taking
01:07	welshbyte	an interest in MOTU activities.
01:07	welshbyte	My recent contributions have mostly been helping out the MOTUs with packaging, merging, syncing and little jobs like writing a missing man page. I've also been helping bddebian look into some troublesome issues like maxima's GCL bugs and the Eclipse libraries problem. I now regularly read 10 ubuntu-related mailing lists and I'm starting to get a good feel for how the whole development system works. Details of my pac
01:07	welshbyte	kaging contributions are listed on my wiki page.
01:08	Seveas	any MOTU around for cheerleading?
01:08	welshbyte	Along with merging/packaging/fixing for Universe I'm also happy to give other users in #ubuntu-motu some help with their own packaging and programming questions. I've found that the people that hang out in #ubuntu-motu, #ubuntu-devel and #ubuntu-bugs are hugely helpful and friendly and I enjoy being part of that community. I've also been known to lurk in #ubuntu+1 and #ubuntu-uk although I'm more interested in the d
01:08	welshbyte	evelopment-related channels.
=== j_ack_ [n=rudi@p508D9854.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:08	crimsun	I'll add because I have to return to a meeting that both welshbyte and Fujitsu_ make bug triaging and universe merges much more tolerable. They learn quickly and play well with the rest of the teams.
01:08	Seveas	imbrandon had to leave but wanted to cheer for welshbyte too
01:08	elmo	Dear Wiki, you are the SUCK.  Love, James.
01:08	welshbyte	I hope I can help the Ubuntu community fight the "battle of the bugs" and also help to take a chunk out of the huge amount of work the MOTU team have to undertake. As I learn more about the development process the number of contributions I can make to Ubuntu increases and it gets even more fun. Eventually I'd like to become a MOTU and help to keep the increasing number of packages in universe up to a high standard o
01:08	welshbyte	f quality. Lots of work to do, but I enjoy it.
01:08	welshbyte	Thank you for considering me as a Ubuntu member :)
01:09	welshbyte	sorry, bit long wasn't it :)
01:09	imbrandon	i'm still here but , yea welshbyte has my +1 , he helps alot
01:09	LaserJock	yeah, I support welshbyte as well, he has been sticking to it and has been consistent on #ubuntu-motu
01:09	imbrandon	in motu and learns fast
01:09	jono	welshbyte +1 from me, excellent work :)
01:09	welshbyte	thanks guys :)
01:10	elmo	dear lord - personal wiki page in the 3rd person
01:10	imbrandon	Seveas, it was bddebian that had to leave and gave a cheer for welshbyte and Fujitsu_
01:10	Seveas	urgh
01:10	imbrandon	;)
01:10	Seveas	ok, well both of you now cheered for him, he should be happy ;)
01:11	LaserJock	elmo: yeah ... interesting
01:11	elmo	motu people: how long has welshbyte been doing motu-ish stuff?
01:11	welshbyte	elmo: makes it easier to maintain if i die ;)
01:11	imbrandon	[17:28]  <bddebian> +Kamion, elmo, mako: Apologies for butting in but i have to leave.  Please give +1 to welshbyte, Fujitsu, and trappist for me.
01:12	welshbyte	bddebian is unfortunately the person i work with most :/
01:12	LaserJock	elmo: hmm, trying to think, he's been learning and hanging out in -motu for some time
01:12	crimsun	2 months at least
01:12	elmo	ok
01:12	imbrandon	elmo, about 3 or more months iirc ( from what i've seen )
01:12	Surak	I've seen welshbyte in #ubuntu-motu for quite some time now.
=== linuxmen [n=linuxmen@200-168-7-20.dsl.telesp.net.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Dilago [n=wqyps@201008063180.user.veloxzone.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:13	welshbyte	it's been a fun ride :)
01:14	elmo	ok, ack from me
=== Ubug2 [n=bugbot@ubuntu/bot/ubugtu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:15	Kamion	yep, +1 for welshbyte, looks to be doing a good job and learning fast
01:15	mako	yes, sounds good to me
01:15	mako	WilliamGrant Fujitsu
01:15	welshbyte	:D
01:15	Fujitsu_	Ah yes, me.
01:15	Seveas	welshbyte, congrats!
01:16	mako	Fujitsu_: go, go :)
01:16	Fujitsu_	Hi, I'm William Grant. I'm a 15-year-old student in Year 12 in Melbourne, Australia. I started out on Red Hat (7.0?) in mid-2000, when my father introduced me to it. I stayed there for a couple of years, moved to Mandrake, greatly disliked it, so moved to Slackware for about 1.5 years. I discovered Ubuntu just before the release of Hoary, and I haven't left since.
01:16	Fujitsu_	Around the release of Breezy I began to help a lot in #ubuntu. This continued until just after the release of Dapper, when I had to stop sitting in #ubuntu, as it was using up my download limit rapidly :(.
01:16	Fujitsu_	Also around the release of Breezy, YukiCuss and I formed the AustralianTeam, which I now manage the server for, and has around 170 people on the mailing list, and well over 50 members.
01:16	Fujitsu_	Since the move to Launchpad, I've been triaging bugs a fair bit. I'm not doing so much now, though, devoting more time to MOTUish activities.
01:16	Fujitsu_	I've merged and requested syncs for over 40 packages during the Edgy development cycle, with a few new ones yesterday.
01:16	mako	LinuxBA: skipped you, you're next
01:16	mako	LinuxBA: sorry
01:16	Surak	Congrats welshbyte
01:16	LinuxBA	okay
01:16	Seveas	Fujitsu_, you're only 15?!?
01:16	LinuxBA	mako, no prblem
01:16	Fujitsu_	Seveas, yup...
01:16	welshbyte	thanks Seveas, Surak :)
01:16	Fujitsu_	As of two months ago.
=== jenda thinks age in and of it self should not be a criterion...
01:17	mako	jenda: don't worry it's not
01:17	Seveas	jenda, I don't consider it as such, I was merely very surprised
01:17	jenda	as long as those two months were filled with significant and sustained contribution :)
=== Plug [n=crb@203-167-190-117.dsl.clear.net.nz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:18	elmo	Fujitsu: you haven't applied for ubuntu-members in LP ?
=== Seveas does 3 cheers for Fujitsu, he likes to push buttons in Malone
01:18	Fujitsu_	elmo, I thought I was only meant to once I was approved.
01:18	Fujitsu_	Thanks Seveas :)
01:18	mako	Fujitsu_: no, do it before the meeting
01:18	Fujitsu_	Ah, I'll do it now.
01:18	Kamion	I do tend to hold younger people to a higher standard of sustainedness, personally, just because people who are still in school have a lot of demands on their time that they can't control
01:19	Kamion	but Fujitsu's been around for a good long while
01:19	LaserJock	I also support Fujitsu, he has been helpful for me in MOTU Science doing bug work and has certainly been helping out in -motu
01:19	imbrandon	yea Fujitsu has been a great help with the merges, i have sponsored a few packages for him ( his LP +packages shows 40+ ) , he has a big +1 from me
01:19	elmo	mutter
01:19	elmo	don't use www.launchpad.net for links folks
=== KurtKraut [n=ktk@unaffiliated/kurtkraut] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:19	Surak	Kamion: but they doesn't have a boss nor a wife. Those can take some time :-)
01:19	elmo	it gives nasty SSL errors
01:20	Seveas	heh
01:20	nixternal	I support Fujitsu big time, he helped me alot with the Ubuntu Chicago web site, and helping with bug triage, and the work he does for Ubuntu AU
01:20	Seveas	why is all of launchpad SSL'ed?
01:20	Seveas	(don't answer - too offtopic, sorry)
01:20	elmo	fujitsu: eh, what are your translation karma points for?
01:20	elmo	please don't say en_AU
01:21	Fujitsu_	A bit of EO.
01:21	Seveas	"G'day mate, welcome to Ubuntu"
01:21	Fujitsu_	Not a whole lot, though.
01:21	nixternal	hahahahaha
=== JanC [n=janc@lugwv/member/JanC] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:22	elmo	ehm, https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/vpnc/+bug/53341
01:23	Ubugtu	Malone bug 53341 in vpnc "0.3.3+SVN20051028-3ubuntu1 no longer works" [Untriaged,Fix released]  
01:23	elmo	Fujitsu: you did report that as a gcc bug, right?
01:23	Fujitsu_	Hm, I didn't end up reporting that, no. Oops.
01:23	elmo	ok, please do
01:24	Fujitsu_	I'll file a bug in GCC's tracker, and add a gcc upstream task to the bug...
=== j_ack__ [n=rudi@p508D8E09.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:25	elmo	anyway, ack from me
01:26	Kamion	+1 for MOTU work, -0 for en_AU ;-)
01:26	elmo	yeah, geez
01:26	elmo	if I hadn't heard such good things about the AU loco team, I'd be like -0.5 for en_AU
01:26	Kamion	I guess that tla en_AU locale has long been buried
01:27	Kamion	the one that had "wanker" liberally sprinkled through the program's error messages
01:27	Seveas	lol
01:27	jono	hehe
01:27	Surak	that "G'Day mate" should be recorded. It was a good one. :-)
01:28	mako	yes, sounds fine
01:28	Fujitsu_	en_AU translations are stopped for the moment, as there's no way to make it a subtranslation of en_GB, which it should be.
01:28	mako	Fujitsu_: welcome :)
01:28	LinuxBA	Fujitsu, Congrats
01:28	Seveas	\o/ congratulations!
01:28	mako	LinuxBA: you're up
01:28	Fujitsu_	Thanks!
01:28	nixternal	congrats Fujitsu!!!
01:28	welshbyte	Fujitsu: good on yer :)
01:28	Ubuntuser	:)
01:28	LinuxBA	here
01:28	Surak	congratulations, Fujitu)
01:28	Dilago	;)
01:28	Surak	ops, Fujitsu_
01:29	Ubuntuser	hehehe Maxtor?
01:29	Ubuntuser	hehehe
01:29	CypherBIOS	Ubuntuser: :P
01:29	OgMaciel	:P
01:29	LinuxBA	Hi My name is Alexandro Silva aka LinuxBA. I've been using GNU/Linux systems for about 8 years
01:29	Fujitsu_	I was named after a hard disk >_<
01:30	LinuxBA	I participate of the Official Brazilian Translation team Brazilian Security team as founding and others important teams in my country
01:30	LinuxBA	I am a author of Ubuntu Brazilian's blog agregator, where I post some articles and news about Ubuntu to keep the community up-to-date about security news.
01:30	LinuxBA	Today I work advocating the Ubuntu Linux in Bahia with apresentations at Universities and Foruns in my region.
01:30	LinuxBA	I just recently helped the organization and ran the Ubuntu Brasil booth at the III Festival Software Livre da Bahia
01:30	LinuxBA	I intend to work  into the development of tools to facilitate the work of security officers and system engineers. I also want to help the number of Ubuntu Servers at Bahia.
01:30	LinuxBA	More info about me pleasesee my WikiPage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlexandroSilva and my launchpad https://launchpad.net/people/penguim
01:31	elmo	ok, seriously Team Brazil, stop claiming to be "Author of <planet>", it's entirely confusing my sorry excuse for a brain.  "Author on <planet>".  kthx.
01:31	LinuxBA	uhaha
01:31	Ubuntuser	hehehe
01:31	Ubuntuser	oh yes..
01:31	OgMaciel	LinuxBA is syndicated
01:31	CypherBIOS	elmo: our mistake ;)
01:32	elmo	linuxba: what does the ubuntu brazillian security team do?
01:32	KurtKraut	elmo, this is a problem of translation. When they mean 'author' they just want to say that they are colunists of this website.
01:32	LinuxBA	its a new team
01:32	Surak	elmo: the english grammar seems specially confusing for us on this.
01:32	CypherBIOS	Surak: yep, is just!
01:33	LinuxBA	bugs patch
01:33	LinuxBA	secutrity infos
01:33	OgMaciel	elmo, LinuxBA has started an awareness program whereby he translates all security related notices and makes them available to the community
01:33	LinuxBA	and divulging  the Nubuntu Linux
01:33	OgMaciel	elmo, but IMHO his strength lies in his advocacy
01:34	LinuxBA	thanks Og
01:34	Ubuntuser	in his lectures...
01:34	Ubuntuser	good lectures about Security / Ubuntu
01:34	OgMaciel	elmo, Ubuntuser, Surak  and LinuxBA among others are very active at their home state
01:34	mako	elmo: the particualrly funny part is that one of them *is* an author of the brazilian planet
01:34	mako	elmo: although he's already a member
01:35	LinuxBA	mako, thanx
01:35	OgMaciel	mako, :P
01:35	Ubuntuser	the Evangelization, mako.. ;)
01:37	OgMaciel	elmo, Kamion mako Bahia, LinuxBA's home state, is considered to be one of the "poor" states in Brazil... and they pretty much pay out of their pockers to do the evangelization
01:37	OgMaciel	pockets
01:37	OgMaciel	Spl4y went there to lend them a hand
01:37	Ubuntuser	+1 OgMaciel
01:37	OgMaciel	and he also travelled out of his own expenses
01:37	Ubuntuser	But nothing is impossible..
01:37	OgMaciel	I'm here supporting LinuxBA for his advocacy
01:38	CypherBIOS	LinuxBA makes a great job in advocacy and evangelization, really
01:38	Spl4y	OgMaciel, two hands :)
01:38	OgMaciel	Spl4y, hehehe :P
01:39	Kamion	ok, I'm sorry but I need to go and get some coffee, I can't concentrate
01:39	Kamion	please carry on without me and I'll catch up
01:39	jono	LinuxBA, ping me with your blog RSS feed, will add you to Planet Advocacy :)
01:39	Ubuntuser	:)
01:39	LinuxBA	okay
01:39	LinuxBA	thanx
01:40	elmo	hmm, yeah, I should probably focus too, I seem to have started reading about bahia in wikipedia
01:40	OgMaciel	elmo, hehehe
01:40	LinuxBA	uhauha
01:40	Seveas	heh
01:40	Surak	As I told on his wiki, his lectures are quite crowded. People fight to see him talk. LinuxBA, have you ever though about charging people to hear you?
01:40	ompaul	good luck to all, I have to go
01:40	Seveas	Surak, paying scares people away
01:40	mako	LinuxBA: you say you've done 100,000+ translations
=== jono goes to make tea too
01:41	mako	LinuxBA: you have that much karma, is that what you mean?
01:41	LinuxBA	yes
01:41	mako	i don't think you've translated 100,000 strings
01:42	mako	i mean, it's absolutely possible
01:42	mako	but your karma would be higher
01:42	LinuxBA	;-)
01:42	Ubuntuser	The power of brazilians.. :)
01:43	OgMaciel	hehe
01:43	AlexRocha	;)
01:44	elmo	anyway, ack from me
=== Kamion ingests caffeine
01:46	Kamion	+1 for LinuxBA from me, particularly based on testimonials for advocacy
01:49	Seveas	2 down
01:49	Seveas	and a meeting rapidly feeling the ill effects of time
01:49	OgMaciel	hehehe
01:49	jono	heh
01:49	mako	yes, the advocacy stuff sounds great
01:49	jono	I am feeling the burn right now
01:49	mako	jono: i think...
01:49	mako	you're up
01:49	Kamion	ok, just jono and EtienneG to go
01:49	jono	been a hell of a long day :P
01:49	Surak	Congrats LinuxBA
01:49	Seveas	mako, hat implies a +1 from you?
01:49	jono	ok, should I go?
01:49	LinuxBA	uahuahuahauhauhauhauha
01:50	Ubuntuser	\o/ Bahia in fest!!! \o/ - Congrats my friend... you deserve!!!!!
01:50	LinuxBA	uuahauhauhauha
01:50	LinuxBA	uahuahuahauhauhauahuah
01:50	LinuxBA	uahauhauhauhauhauhau
01:50	Kamion	jono: yep
01:50	LinuxBA	jiaajiajiajiajiajiaja
01:50	Seveas	LinuxBA, drop it
01:50	LinuxBA	uhahuahauhauhauhauahua
01:50	LinuxBA	iajiajiaja
01:50	mako	Seveas: yes, sorry, postiive vote for me
01:50	jono	My name is Jono Bacon, I have been a long-time contributor and advocate of free software, and I recently started at Canonical as the Ubuntu Community Manager. My contributions to Ubuntu are fairly recent, and have mainly involved testing, feedback and writing the Official Ubuntu Book.
01:50	AlexRocha	Congrats!!! LinuxBA :D
=== Kamion ponders taking back that +1
01:50	mako	jono: that's very concise
01:50	jono	Outside Ubuntu I have been involved with a number of projects, including officially representing KDE in the UK, founding KDE Usability Study, KDE::Enterprise, Linux UK, Jokosher, Planet Advocacy, Wolves LUG, PHPWM, Infopoint and co-founding LUGRadio, LUGRadio Live 2005/2006 and more. I have also spoken around the world as an advocate at conferences and before starting at Canonical worked as a professional Open Source advocate for
01:50	jono	a UK government funded organisation for two years. I have worked to build the worldwide LUGradio community (approx 15,000 regular listeners, 700+ forum members) and a strong Jokosher community which is steaming ahead in its progress.
01:50	mako	hah
01:50	Kamion	please stop flooding, LinuxBA
01:50	Dilago	Concreats, LinuxBA!!!
01:50	jono	I am committed to Ubuntu, and as UCM I will be working with LoCo teams, edubuntu and education, refining team relations, developing upstream community relations, increasing community contributions/advocacy, resolving conflict, helping ubuntu marketing and other things. In my two days working in the role I have already worked on LoCo, education, marketing, merch and upstream relations issues.
01:50	LinuxBA	sorry
01:50	Ubuntuser	one more to Brasil - Bahia!!!
01:50	LinuxBA	felicity
01:50	jono	I have a proven track record, and a proven committment to free software, and I am committed to making Ubuntu kick more ass than a guy with four legs and a pint of cider.
01:50	jono	</end>
01:50	Seveas	-1 for jono from me -- We should only support shaved bacon
01:51	jono	Seveas, damn you!
01:51	Burgwork	jono, sorry, but I just don't that you have done enough for ubuntu ;)
01:51	jono	:P
01:51	jenda	wow, not that concise anymore...
01:51	LinuxBA	Surak, Ubuntuser OgMaciel  
01:51	jenda	Jono has been very helpful and friendly when discussing DIY Marketing with me. Besides, I trust Canonical's joice
01:51	jono	heh
01:51	LinuxBA	thanx
01:51	mako	well, i worked for a long time with jono on the book
01:51	LinuxBA	mucj thanx
01:51	LinuxBA	much
01:51	Burgwork	+1 from much
01:51	Burgwork	s/much/me
01:51	jono	Burgwork, heh
01:51	jenda	hehe... ill effects of time, eh.
01:51	Seveas	Burgwork, probably the 'much' is also correct
01:52	Ubuntuser	i have to go.. good meeting!
01:52	mako	and without him, it would have been a much worse (and much thinner) book
=== LinuxBA [n=alexos@20132220228.user.veloxzone.com.br] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
01:52	Kamion	+1 for jono, kind of obviously; even without the employment contract his book contributions were sustained and significant
=== Ubuntuser [n=deb-user@ubuntu/member/ubuntuser] has left #Ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
01:52	elmo	jono: http://www.jokosher.org/ is broken
01:52	mako	for FWIW, i fully endorse him for the the book work
01:52	jono	bugger
01:52	Kamion	looking forward to seeing the community prosper under his guidance
01:52	moitio	elmo, heh, thats brilliant :)
=== mako nods to Kamion
01:52	elmo	and yeah, ack from me for jono
=== Seveas nods along
01:53	mako	jono: welcome, looking forward to good stuff :)
01:53	Seveas	3 acks
01:53	jenda	jono: congratulations, and good night ;)
01:53	Seveas	Welcome aboard!
01:53	jono	woo!
01:53	jono	thanks guys
01:53	jono	oh and elmo, you broke jokosher.org, damn you :P
01:53	Kamion	say hi to the lugradio lot from us
01:53	OgMaciel	congrats jono
01:53	Seveas	EtienneG, you're up
01:53	jono	Kamion, will do :)
01:53	EtienneG	here it is
01:53	EtienneG	I have been a Ubuntu user since Warty
01:53	EtienneG	I have been employed by Canonical as a support analyst in the Montreal office since July this year
01:54	EtienneG	Which mean that I will get to come in contact with every interesting way Ubuntu can break eventually :)
01:54	EtienneG	I have also been assigned some packaging responsabilities
01:54	EtienneG	Notably, I am producing the debs of the latest release of bzr available on http://bazaar-vcs.org
01:54	EtienneG	I have also produced the latest bzr/bzrtools packages for Edgy and dapper-updates
01:54	EtienneG	which should find their way in the archive any time now
01:54	EtienneG	In the recent past, I have been a huge Ubuntu advocate within my LUG and University
01:54	EtienneG	and a huge abuser of the ShipIt service :)
01:54	Kamion	(the most recent bzr failed to build, see your +packages page on launchpad)
01:54	elmo	*giggle*
01:55	EtienneG	(yeah I know, selftest break)
01:55	EtienneG	I have distributed a few hundreds CD in LUG meeting, in the CS dept that I attended,
01:55	mako	heh :)
01:55	EtienneG	to co-workers and to acquaintance from the local public administration I was in contact with professionnally
01:55	EtienneG	I was on sounders from March 2005 to April 2006 (I unsubscribe as the volume was just to high for me to keep up)
01:55	EtienneG	My plan for Ubuntu are pretty simple
01:55	EtienneG	I expect to continue contributing to the packaging of bzr for the foreseeable future
01:55	EtienneG	As I get better at packaging, I would like to maintain a few packages in Universe eventually
01:55	EtienneG	Since I provide professionnal service for Ubuntu, I expect to come in contact with a lot of bugs and problems from customers
01:55	EtienneG	so I expect to be filing a lot bugs on behalf of customers in the future
01:55	EtienneG	Thus, I take a close interest in QA
01:55	EtienneG	If my schedule ever permit it (I work evening shift, not really good for RL meeting)
01:55	EtienneG	I would really like to get involved in my LoCo
01:56	EtienneG	it's somewhat dormant right now, I'd like to make it more active and visible
01:56	EtienneG	In general, I am a lot into advocacy at the local level
01:56	EtienneG	That's about it, thanks for considering me as a Ubuntu member !
01:56	EtienneG	questions ?
01:57	Kamion	it's good to see people from Canonical teams other than the distro get gradually sucked into Ubuntu ;-)
01:57	jbailey	You stunned them into silence. =)
01:57	EtienneG	hey !
01:57	mako	Kamion: yes, definitely
01:57	mako	jbailey: still reading
01:57	elmo	ack from me
01:59	Kamion	the actual contributions linked are shortish, but you didn't mention bzr/bzrtools on the wiki page, which I know is a reasonable chunk of work, so that helps
01:59	EtienneG	Kamion, indeed, it's a work in progress
01:59	EtienneG	I should have mentionned it
01:59	Kamion	thank you for taking those on; they were languishing for a while there
01:59	EtienneG	it's been an ... instructive experience
02:00	EtienneG	:)
02:00	mako	jbailey: do you have a testimonial?
02:00	Kamion	+1 from me for that and anticipated profserv help :-)
02:00	mako	EtienneG: yeah, the page is a bit thin
02:00	jbailey	mako: My testimonial is from the watched-him-with-customers side, so I'm not sure how best to present it.
02:00	mako	i guess we can talk about it later..
02:00	mako	i mean, the general case
02:00	jbailey	mako: It's something that I don't think we've really looked at before, have we?  From the works-with-deploying-to-customers-around-the-world.
02:01	jbailey	I don't mean it as a secret, but I'm not sure how to put it.
02:01	mako	jbailey: no, we haven't
=== mako nods
02:01	mako	EtienneG: in any case, i'm happy accepting you as a member
02:01	EtienneG	thanks !
02:01	mako	alright then
=== theCore [n=alex@modemcable069.137-83-70.mc.videotron.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:01	mako	that's it for this week
02:01	jbailey	mako: I think it's probably an interesting case to consider, not just in the CAnonical case, but in the general case of support providers.
02:01	mako	two weeks from today then
02:01	jenda	theCore: you missed it :)
02:01	jbailey	I don't know how it would be measured, though.
=== mako nods to jbailey
02:02	theCore	jenda: *nod*
02:02	mako	how about 12UTC
02:02	Kamion	jbailey: yeah, it's a lot harder for extra-Canonical folks where we don't know their co-workers so well
02:02	Seveas	please one week later
02:02	Seveas	2 weeks from now is eurooscon
02:02	mako	Seveas: hmm
02:03	jbailey	Kamion: I'll think on it and try to offer a proposal.
02:03	mako	are any of the members going to eurooscon?
=== Seveas is
02:03	mako	the CC members?
02:03	Seveas	sabdfl
02:03	Seveas	(according to the schedule I've seen)
02:03	mako	right, but he won't make it in three weeks either ;)
02:03	Seveas	heh
02:03	jenda	Seveas: link?
02:03	elmo	yeah, I suspect sabdfl is - it's on the calendar in the office
02:04	elmo	unfortunately it being ONE AM, I don't have access to Avril to check sabdfl's schedule
02:04	mako	alright
02:04	Fujitsu_	One AM!? Urgh.
02:04	mako	lets end this now
02:04	Seveas	2 AM here ;)
02:04	Fujitsu_	10am here :D
02:04	mako	elmo: 12UTC in 2weeks work for you?
02:04	elmo	mako: sure
02:05	jbailey	elmo: You tell us this just to make the rest of us feel guilty for feeling tired. =)
02:05	mako	with three weeks, the candidate list backs up
02:05	mako	alright then
02:05	mako	lets do that

</pre>
