{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

Nov 25 12:00:52 <charlie-tca>	#startmeeting
Nov 25 12:00:54 <MootBot>	Meeting started at 13:01. The chair is charlie-tca.
Nov 25 12:00:54 <MootBot>	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
Nov 25 12:01:05 *	ivanka (~ivanka@92.29.242.84) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 25 12:01:13 <charlie-tca>	Well, let's do this then. The agenda for today is 
Nov 25 12:01:27 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] Agenda
Nov 25 12:01:28 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Agenda
Nov 25 12:01:30 <charlie-tca>	# Old business
Nov 25 12:01:30 <charlie-tca>	# Team updates (Packaging, Bug Triage, Development / Coding, Testing, Documentation, Artwork)
Nov 25 12:01:30 <charlie-tca>	# Announcements
Nov 25 12:01:30 <charlie-tca>	# Changes for Natty Narwhal
Nov 25 12:01:30 <charlie-tca>	# Continue working with the new Governance structure
Nov 25 12:01:30 <charlie-tca>	# Any Other Business 
Nov 25 12:02:04 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] Old business
Nov 25 12:02:05 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Old business
Nov 25 12:02:31 <charlie-tca>	Carried over from the last meeting:
Nov 25 12:02:32 <charlie-tca>	charlie-tca to get with thorwil and Saleel about artwork specs by email 
Nov 25 12:02:52 <charlie-tca>	There is now a lively discussion taking place on the community artwork mailing list - 
Nov 25 12:03:19 <charlie-tca>	[LINK] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2010-November/012604.html
Nov 25 12:03:21 <MootBot>	LINK received:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2010-November/012604.html
Nov 25 12:03:50 <charlie-tca>	We have drawn up a draft of artwork specs for Xubuntu wallpaper, and any input is welcomed. 
Nov 25 12:04:06 <charlie-tca>	[LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/0007_Xubuntu_Natty_Wallpaper
Nov 25 12:04:07 *	lucascastro (~lucas@200.167.58.50) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 25 12:04:07 <MootBot>	LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/0007_Xubuntu_Natty_Wallpaper
Nov 25 12:04:23 *	bittin (~bittin@c213-100-110-172.swipnet.se) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 25 12:04:30 <bittin>	has the Xubuntu meeting started?
Nov 25 12:04:35 <highvoltage>	bittin: yep
Nov 25 12:04:41 <charlie-tca>	If you aren't on the ml, let me know and I will forward suggestions/guidance
Nov 25 12:04:48 <charlie-tca>	Welcome, bittin 
Nov 25 12:04:53 <bittin>	iam on the ml
Nov 25 12:05:03 <bittin>	hackerbittin@googlemail.com
Nov 25 12:05:04 <cody-somerville>	Interesting discussions going on there.
Nov 25 12:05:07 <charlie-tca>	That was for the artwork mailing list, bittin 
Nov 25 12:05:13 <bittin>	ah
Nov 25 12:05:16 <bittin>	sorry
Nov 25 12:05:52 <charlie-tca>	Along with the wallpaper discussion there, 
Nov 25 12:05:54 <charlie-tca>	Ochosi is currently reworking the xubuntu gtk-theme (aka bluebird), feel free to check it out @ http://shimmerproject.org/hg/bluebird-colors > greybird. in response to the reviews being somewhat divided regarding the blue i started by reducing it
Nov 25 12:06:03 *	micahg (~micah@ubuntu/member/micahg) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 25 12:06:19 <cody-somerville>	Is Bluebird based off of Albatros at all?
Nov 25 12:06:40 <charlie-tca>	um, yes, in that it does use the same engine and started there
Nov 25 12:07:25 <cody-somerville>	I met the author of Albatros at UDS Brussels. I was surprised to find out that he is the same guy who did Ubuntu's new themes.
Nov 25 12:07:26 <charlie-tca>	Ochosi is particularily interested in  * panel
Nov 25 12:07:26 <charlie-tca>	 * window-switcher (alt-tab)
Nov 25 12:07:26 <charlie-tca>	 * scrollbars
Nov 25 12:07:42 *	ivanka has quit (Ping timeout: 255 seconds)
Nov 25 12:07:47 <charlie-tca>	He is a really good artist.
Nov 25 12:08:05 <cody-somerville>	charlie-tca, Ochosi or the author of Albatros?
Nov 25 12:08:17 <charlie-tca>	the author of Albatros
Nov 25 12:08:25 <cody-somerville>	Is he helping us with Natty?
Nov 25 12:08:29 <charlie-tca>	Not to take anything away from ochosi, either
Nov 25 12:08:41 <charlie-tca>	the albatross author is not helping at the moment
Nov 25 12:08:44 <cody-somerville>	(Interesting tidbit, the Author of Albatros is actually a cop in real life)
Nov 25 12:08:59 <highvoltage>	cool :)
Nov 25 12:09:21 <charlie-tca>	neat1
Nov 25 12:09:31 <cody-somerville>	charlie-tca, so is the 'lighter' theme a direction we're going to continue with for natty?
Nov 25 12:09:37 <cody-somerville>	('lighter' as in color)
Nov 25 12:09:39 <charlie-tca>	I hope so
Nov 25 12:09:55 <charlie-tca>	dark is nice, but lighter is easier for accessibility 
Nov 25 12:10:16 <charlie-tca>	Ochosi is also working on an xfce-complete version of faenza (based on 0.7) which you can check out here: http://shimmerproject.org/hg/faenza-xfce
Nov 25 12:10:16 <charlie-tca>	Please give feedback to myself or ochosi on IRC
Nov 25 12:10:38 <charlie-tca>	um, if anybody else wants to pick up this artwork thing, I would be thrilled
Nov 25 12:10:54 *	neoman has quit ()
Nov 25 12:10:57 <charlie-tca>	I am like a fish out of water with it sometimes
Nov 25 12:11:02 *	cody-somerville is no artist either.
Nov 25 12:11:34 <charlie-tca>	Well, that's all I have on artwork. Any questions or comments?
Nov 25 12:12:39 <charlie-tca>	I am going to consider the artwork action item closed. I will continue to pursue things with the artwork community.
Nov 25 12:12:59 <charlie-tca>	The other two action items, I did not get to.
Nov 25 12:13:36 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] Team updates
Nov 25 12:13:37 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Team updates
Nov 25 12:13:51 <charlie-tca>	mr_pouit, did you make it?
Nov 25 12:14:14 <charlie-tca>	From the developers team: the only "news" since last week is the upload of exo 0.5.5 to natty ;-)
Nov 25 12:14:24 <charlie-tca>	Unless cody-somerville or micahg has more?
Nov 25 12:14:55 <cody-somerville>	Nothing in particular from me today
Nov 25 12:15:02 *	micahg is still learning
Nov 25 12:15:08 <charlie-tca>	From the documentation team:
Nov 25 12:15:41 <charlie-tca>	We do have an individual working the Xubuntu docs. He is working on updating things and I will have more on that the next meeting.
Nov 25 12:16:30 <charlie-tca>	From the bugs and testing team: We are hoping to see more people involved in testing. If we do not have anyone committed to test, we will not produce the image.
Nov 25 12:16:49 <charlie-tca>	For Alpha1, we will have i386 and amd64 images
Nov 25 12:17:37 <charlie-tca>	We already discussed artwork, and we really need a marketing director
Nov 25 12:18:03 <charlie-tca>	Any questions on team updates?
Nov 25 12:18:30 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] Announcements
Nov 25 12:18:31 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Announcements
Nov 25 12:19:19 <charlie-tca>	We will be putting out the Natty Alpha1 cd's next week. These are the first of a great release! It will not have Xfce4.8 in alpha1, though.
Nov 25 12:19:59 <charlie-tca>	We would really appreciate any help with testing these images starting November 30
Nov 25 12:20:12 <charlie-tca>	Any other announcements?
Nov 25 12:20:48 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] Continue working with the new Governance structure 
Nov 25 12:20:49 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Continue working with the new Governance structure
Nov 25 12:21:04 <charlie-tca>	There should have been an action item last time for this, too. 
Nov 25 12:21:40 <charlie-tca>	I sent out an email to both Xubuntu Developers mailing list and the Community Council that we are looking to have a permanent Project Lead.
Nov 25 12:21:56 <charlie-tca>	It does take two nominees to have an election.
Nov 25 12:22:35 <charlie-tca>	I will be a nominee, and will send my name to the CC this next week. Nominations are open until the 15th of December.
Nov 25 12:23:13 <charlie-tca>	I do not want to go through another release without this happening, please. 
Nov 25 12:23:19 <charlie-tca>	any comments?
Nov 25 12:24:08 <charlie-tca>	Feel free to speak up. I promise not to bite anyone!
Nov 25 12:24:48 *	highvoltage is just reading
Nov 25 12:25:13 <highvoltage>	charlie-tca: who may nominate and who may be nominated, btw?
Nov 25 12:25:19 <charlie-tca>	Well, I feel this is very important, and don't really see a need to continue the rest of the governance discussions until we can do something.
Nov 25 12:25:44 <charlie-tca>	any individual may nominate him/her self or another person. 
Nov 25 12:25:57 *	micahg was going to nominate charlie-tca
Nov 25 12:26:00 <charlie-tca>	Nominee names need to be sent to the CC
Nov 25 12:26:10 <highvoltage>	micahg: I second that
Nov 25 12:27:42 <charlie-tca>	see https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2010-November/007614.html
Nov 25 12:29:06 <charlie-tca>	I will accept the nomination, but I think we will need two names to have a vote. I did give the CC a second proposal, though. We will see what happens
Nov 25 12:29:18 *	ejat has quit (Ping timeout: 255 seconds)
Nov 25 12:29:36 *	hakimsheriff has quit (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
Nov 25 12:29:42 <charlie-tca>	Any other discussion on governance?
Nov 25 12:30:17 *	bittin has quit (Quit: [BX] Size DOES matter)
Nov 25 12:30:17 <charlie-tca>	[TOPIC] Any Other Business 
Nov 25 12:30:19 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Any Other Business
Nov 25 12:30:32 <charlie-tca>	Okay, everybody at once now
Nov 25 12:30:57 *	hakimsheriff (~hakimsher@modemcable098.122-130-66.mc.videotron.ca) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Nov 25 12:31:16 <charlie-tca>	going...
Nov 25 12:31:34 <charlie-tca>	going 2....
Nov 25 12:32:25 <charlie-tca>	I will thank all of you for attending. Next meeting is Thursday, 2 Dec, same place, 19:00 UTC. Minutes will be published again.
Nov 25 12:32:42 <highvoltage>	micahg: are you going to email the CC?
Nov 25 12:32:59 <micahg>	highvoltage: charlie-tca said he was going to nominate himseld
Nov 25 12:33:04 <charlie-tca>	Meeting times and minutes are kept at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings
Nov 25 12:33:06 <highvoltage>	ok cool
Nov 25 12:33:12 <micahg>	*himself, does there need to be more people nominating him?
Nov 25 12:33:25 <charlie-tca>	micahg, yes, I think there should be. 
Nov 25 12:33:33 <charlie-tca>	I will not nominate myself if you want to
Nov 25 12:33:40 <micahg>	charlie-tca: ok, I'll be happy to send a mail then
Nov 25 12:33:45 <charlie-tca>	Thank you
Nov 25 12:34:02 <charlie-tca>	Anything else?
Nov 25 12:34:13 <micahg>	charlie-tca: thank you for doing such a great job as Project Lead :)
Nov 25 12:34:16 <charlie-tca>	Thank you very much!
Nov 25 12:34:27 <charlie-tca>	I am learning everyday
Nov 25 12:34:34 <charlie-tca>	#endmeeting
Nov 25 12:34:35 <MootBot>	Meeting finished at 13:35.
</pre>
