{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=04&day=7&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Apr  7th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** apparmor ptrace and signal mediation has landed on desktop and server. Touch images have the userspace and should have kernel updates next week. For anyone seeing apparmor denials in distro/click policy, please file bugs
** oxide is now in main and in use on the touch images
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** openjdk-6 regression
** media-hub landing
** scopes confinement
** install testing
** updates
** mdeslaur
** short week: off friday
** weekly role: triage
** updates
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor
*** reviews for signal and ptrace
*** coordinate upstream landings
*** additional test cases for them
*** review jenkins FTBFS over the weekend
*** travel arrangements
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor
*** lightdm guest session denials
*** follow-up on aa.py patchset
*** travel arrangements
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** MIR: glusterfs
** apparmor reviews
** chrisccoulson
** Oxide
*** reviews
*** grooveshark Bug:1301341
*** file picker upload
*** go down oxide bug list
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** jdstrand asked about file_inherit:<pre>
11:51 < jdstrand> someone reported this denial to me in #ubuntu-devel: 
                  [13395.573516] type=1400 audit(1396873920.517:120): 
                  apparmor="DENIED" operation="file_inherit" 
                  profile="/usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action" 
                  name="/var/lib/NetworkManager/dhclient-9a71cfcd-ec48-4ea2-9a72-928b504f7429-usb0.lease" 
                  pid=1168 comm="nm-dhcp-client." requested_mask="r" denied_mask="r" 
                  fsuid=0 ouid=0
11:51 < jdstrand> this requred /usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action {} 
                  to need a new rule:
11:51 < jdstrand> /var/lib/NetworkManager/*lease r,
11:52 < jdstrand> someone in the #apparmor channel over the weekend saw something similar
11:52 < jdstrand> and then I saw it this morning with my chromium-browser profile
11:53 < jdstrand> it is my understanding that this was intentional, related to file delegation and that maybe at some point we want to make this configurable
11:54 < jdstrand> I have some concerns that this is turned on atm. I didn't see it in any of the rather significant testing we did over the past weeks
11:54 < jdstrand> is this from a new patch to the kernel?
...
11:55 < tyhicks> a quick git blame points at "apparmor: revalidate open files at exec time"
11:55 < tyhicks> it is one of the last few patches in jj's patch set
11:55 < jdstrand> so that is in the kernels we tested
...
12:04 < tyhicks> yeah, I wasn't looking for delegation denials during my testing
12:05 < jdstrand> me either-- I wasn't aware the patchset changed things
12:05 < jdstrand> wrt delegation
12:06 < jdstrand> well, anyway, I guess we can just keep an eye on it
12:07  * sbeattie takes a note to make sure delegation is exercised in the regression tests
12:08 < jdstrand> sbeattie: thanks
</pre>

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-04-07-16.36.html
