{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Log ====
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
05:01	mdz	good day all
05:01	cjwatson	good afternoon Vietnam
05:01	mdz	I'm trying to remember which countries have holidays today
05:02	Mithrandir	.no, .dk, .de, .fr AIUI.
05:02	bdmurray	not me
05:02	Mithrandir	I'm not really here, I'm leaving for dinner at my father's in 15-ish minutes.
05:02	mdz	that certainly accounts for a chunk
05:03	mdz	BenC: kernel team accounted for?
05:03	cjwatson	so I'm expecting BenC, bryce_, kylem, pkl, rtg
05:03	mdz	Keybuk is ill today
05:03	BenC	missing two
05:03	cjwatson	and bdmurray
05:03	mdz	and Riddell is on leave
05:03	mdz	but I believe iwj is expected
05:04	rtg_	here
05:04	bdmurray	I'm here too
05:04	tkamppeter	.pt is not a holiday, I am here.
05:05	BenC	I think everyone thought like I did, meeting in an hour from now
05:05	cjwatson	ok
05:05	cjwatson	bryce_: ping?
05:05	mdz	BenC: why?
05:05	BenC	16:00 UTC == 12 noon my time
05:05	mdz	oh, Scott's reminder and the distro team calendar disagree
05:06	BenC	right
05:06	mdz	I have a conflict at 1700 BST
05:06	cjwatson	iwj: ping?
05:07	mdz	if everyone is here, I'd prefer to do it now
05:07	BenC	pkl and kyle are probably not required, so I say move on, and let them catch up
05:07	cjwatson	mdz: also adilson?
05:08	mdz	he's apparently at lunch, so probably expecting 1600 UTC
05:08	mdz	cjwatson: the email I sent to you/Scott earlier outlines my current areas of interest
05:08	mdz	cjwatson: could you run the meeting at 1600 UTC for me?
05:09	cjwatson	I had been hoping to leave at 1630 UTC today
05:09	cjwatson	but I guess so
05:10	mdz	cjwatson: do you have any agenda items?
05:10	bryce_	cjwatson: I'm here
05:10	cjwatson	mdz: not at this point
05:10	iwj	Hi.
05:11	iwj	Oh, now would be OK.
05:11	bryce_	now's fine for me too
05:11	cjwatson	why don't we just go ahead now; we seem to have nearly everyone
05:11	mdz	sounds good
05:12	cjwatson	first item is UDS output
05:12	cjwatson	all the workshops should be written up, ideally by the end of this week
05:12	mdz	Colin and Scott will review with each of you
05:13	cjwatson	if there are any parts you can't remember, the sysadmins are working on producing voice recordings, but hopefully you all have notes
05:13	mdz	it's important to have the writeups from UDS done soon, as memory fades
05:13	cjwatson	does anyone have any questions about that process?
05:13	mdz	for specs which were produced independent of UDS, the hard deadline is 31 May
05:14	mdz	but enough detail is needed at this stage for the selection process
05:14	cjwatson	mdz and I have done an initial pass over everything we could find and tried to set priorities
05:14	mdz	everything which is concrete and feasible should be proposed as a gutsy goal
05:14	cjwatson	no doubt some things will need to be added, and others tweaked
05:14	iwj	gutsy goal> Oh, I should check that for mine.
05:15	mdz	the tech board, canonical, etc. will review the list and construct the overall roadmap
05:16	mdz	is everyone clear on what's expected for gutsy specs?
05:16	mdz	silent assent :-)
05:17	Mithrandir	is there anything different than before?
05:17	Mithrandir	I'm aware of the template changes Scott made
05:17	Mithrandir	but anything else?
05:17	mdz	the timeline we just explained
05:17	Mithrandir	I meant the content.
05:17	Mithrandir	(sorry for not being clear)
05:17	mdz	nope
05:17	cjwatson	speaking of which, the spectemplate now has a release note as a mandatory item
05:17	cjwatson	I can well imagine that a release note will not be appropriate for everything
05:18	mdz	the template has changed slightly; if it's not self-explanatory, ask
05:18	iwj	I've been writing those in the past tense even though they're in the future.  I assume that's correct ?
05:18	cjwatson	how about "mandatory for user-visible items"?
05:18	cjwatson	iwj: writing which?
05:18	iwj	== Release Note ==
05:18	cjwatson	yes, it's for cut-and-pasting
05:18	mdz	cjwatson: it's a good exercise to describe the value of the work, even if it's not user-visible
05:18	cjwatson	(theoretically)
05:18	iwj	I think the person assembling the release notes can decide to ditch it if it doesn't seem sufficiently interesting.
05:19	cjwatson	in that case, I will edit the template to say that not all notes will necessarily be included
05:19	mdz	it should be obvious who the approver should be for each spec, if it isn't already set
05:19	mdz	cjwatson: works for me
05:19	iwj	mdz: Do you mean that we should set the approvers or do you mean the techboard will know ?
05:19	cjwatson	if in doubt about the approver of a spec, it's the manager of the main person in Canonical responsible
05:20	iwj	Right.
05:20	mdz	iwj: you should
05:20	cjwatson	unless there's some exceptional circumstance (e.g. other expert)
05:20	mdz	otherwise it won't show up on that person's approval list
05:21	mdz	ok
05:22	mdz	we're planning a mobile mini-sprint next month, which just a few folks will attend
05:22	mdz	if you're working on a team project which would benefit from such an event, please let me know
05:22	mdz	that's pretty much all from me today
05:23	mdz	other business for the meeting?
05:24	cjwatson	oh, other item is merges
05:24	cjwatson	I assume everyone is aware from -devel-announce that the merge-o-matic is running
05:25	cjwatson	the gutsy release schedule calls for Debian auto-syncs to be frozen on 21 June, by which time all packages in main requiring a merge should have been merged at least once
05:25	BenC	cjwatson: any chance of getting a merges-bof for people who aren't yet familiar with the process?
05:26	BenC	docs are currently geared toward people who already know debian packaging
05:26	mdz	I think there's an existing MOTU school bit for that
05:26	BenC	ah, maybe those docs are a bit better
05:26	cjwatson	by my count, that would be amitk, asac, bdmurray, bryce, evand, pkl, rtg, maybe kwwii
05:26	cjwatson	but it's not too critical for the kernel team or bdmurray
05:26	cjwatson	or kwwii come to that
05:26	BenC	merges seemed a good way for amitk, pkl and rtg to get into packaging
05:27	bryce_	kees schooled brian and I on merges (but using DaD not MoM)
05:27	cjwatson	BenC: a fair point
05:27	cjwatson	if the MOTU school documentation isn't adequate, let me know and I'll be happy to run a quick bootcamp
05:27	BenC	ok
05:28	mdz	sounds like a good topic for the mailing list, as some new folks aren't at this meeting
05:28	cjwatson	to clarify, after the Debian import freeze on 21 June, merges and explicitly-requested syncs are still permitted without approval until 16 August
05:28	cjwatson	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyReleaseSchedule
05:28	cjwatson	mdz: ok, that's all from me
05:29	mdz	ok
05:29	mdz	last call for other business
05:29	bdmurray	The distro sprint is in early July on that schedule right?
05:29	cjwatson	bdmurray: correct, the "Developer Sprint" item
05:30	mdz	that wasn't on the calendar yet, fixing that
05:30	bdmurray	Some was trying to tell me it was August but I won't name names.
05:30	cjwatson	if it was me, I claim temporary insanity. :)
05:30	BenC	I think it was me, but I claim too much beer in Spain
05:31	bdmurray	heh
05:31	BenC	sprint is London, correct?
05:31	iwj	t
05:32	rtg_	How many days? It starts on a Thursday.
05:32	mdz	BenC: yes
05:32	mdz	rtg_: monday-friday that week
05:32	iwj	rtg_: No, that Thursday is in the middle.
05:32	cjwatson	I'll edit the schedule to note that
05:32	iwj	All of the week-long things are on the schedule `on the Thursday' just because that's how the schedule is laid out.
05:32	ogra	BenC, dont forget the fridge magnet ;)
05:33	cjwatson	any other business?
05:33	BenC	we don't have magnets here, we staple things to the cows
05:33	ogra	so bring a cow then i heard there is lots of space ;)
05:33	mdz	ok, that's a wrap then
05:33	mdz	thanks, all.  apologies for the time confusion
</pre>
