{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by SpamapS at 16:03:52 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-06-26-16.03.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
''ACTION:'' rbasak follow up on IS request to move Ubuntu Server blog  (SpamapS, 16:05:21)

* Quantal Development
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/bugs/974584   (SpamapS, 16:09:57)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/bugs/920197   (SpamapS, 16:10:25)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/bugs/1001846   (SpamapS, 16:10:56)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/bugs/1008537   (SpamapS, 16:11:24)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/bugs/1009579   (SpamapS, 16:12:07)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/bugs/1014005   (SpamapS, 16:12:52)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/bugs/935516   (SpamapS, 16:13:58)

* 12.04.1 Development (jamespage & smoser)
''LINK:'' http://people.canonical.com/~jamespage/server-sru/precise-sru.html   (jamespage, 16:19:27)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

* Welcome jimbaker to Server team (arosales).

* Open Discussion

* Announce next meeting date and time

Meeting ended at 16:38:03 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* rbasak follow up on IS request to move Ubuntu Server blog

=== People present (lines said) ===

* SpamapS (68)
* Daviey (28)
* jamespage (20)
* smoser (13)
* hallyn (10)
* ubottu (9)
* arosales (8)
* smb (8)
* meetingology (4)
* zul (3)
* utlemming (2)
* adam_g (1)
* jimbaker` (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:03:52 <SpamapS> #startmeeting Ubuntu Server Team

 16:03:52 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 26 16:03:52 2012 UTC.  The chair is SpamapS. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03:52 <meetingology> 

 16:03:52 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:04:18 <SpamapS> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:04:24 <SpamapS> arosales to follow up with rbask on finding the correct home for the Ubuntu Server blog.

 16:04:29 <SpamapS> Oh, and hi everybody ;)

 16:04:36 <arosales> rbasak: has made an IS request to have the blogged moved

 16:04:54 <arosales> SpamapS: so that in progress per rbasak's work

 16:05:03 <SpamapS> woot

 16:05:20 <Daviey> \o/

 16:05:21 <SpamapS> #action rbasak follow up on IS request to move Ubuntu Server blog

 16:05:21 * meetingology rbasak follow up on IS request to move Ubuntu Server blog

 16:05:25 <SpamapS> Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:05:27 <SpamapS> oops

 16:05:39 <SpamapS> Ctrl-C before Ctrl-Shift-V...

 16:05:40 <SpamapS> jamespage to follow up with hallyn on servercloud-q-server-iso-tests-review

 16:05:59 <Daviey> 16:53 < jamespage> hallyn, pre-empting my non-action from last weeks team meeting

 16:05:59 <jamespage> SpamapS, I've actually remembered what that is now

 16:06:02 <Daviey> 16:53 < jamespage> the check from the servercloud-q-server-iso-tests-review blueprint was related to checking the functionality of a VM post host upgrade

 16:06:03 <hallyn> inprogress :)

 16:06:05 <Daviey> 16:53 < jamespage> I think

 16:06:07 <Daviey> 16:53 < jamespage> i.e. if we upgrade precise->quantal do VM's keep functioning

 16:06:20 <jamespage> SpamapS, still inprogress

 16:06:27 <jamespage> but I really don't think we need to track it here

 16:06:38 <hallyn> nope

 16:06:41 <hallyn> thx

 16:06:48 <Daviey> sounds sensible to drop it's special treatment :)

 16:07:48 <SpamapS> sorry got lagged out for a second

 16:08:01 <SpamapS> utlemming to follow up with rbasak on getting armhf images using highbank

 16:08:15 <utlemming> SpamapS: in progress

 16:09:12 <SpamapS> do we need to check in on that again next week? Sounds like its getting handled

 16:09:32 <SpamapS> #topic Quantal Development

 16:09:33 <utlemming> if we need follow up next week, I'll raise it

 16:09:42 <SpamapS> Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:09:57 <SpamapS> https://launchpad.net/bugs/974584

 16:09:59 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 974584 in sysvinit (Ubuntu Quantal) "Semaphores cannot be created in lxc container" [High,Triaged]

 16:10:11 <SpamapS> hallyn: ^?

 16:10:25 <SpamapS> https://launchpad.net/bugs/920197

 16:10:27 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 920197 in python-webob (Ubuntu Quantal) "[SRU] webob last stable version 1.1.1 response header bug" [High,Triaged]

 16:10:31 * SpamapS parallelizes

 16:10:42 <SpamapS> zul: ^?

 16:10:56 <zul> crap totally forgot about that one

 16:10:56 <SpamapS> https://launchpad.net/bugs/1001846

 16:10:58 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1001846 in cobbler (Ubuntu) "cobbler fails to install with error code 1" [High,Confirmed]

 16:11:13 <SpamapS> Andres is not here, will skip that

 16:11:24 <SpamapS> https://launchpad.net/bugs/1008537

 16:11:27 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1008537 in sphinx (Ubuntu) "[FTBFS] Segmentation fault during tests" [High,Confirmed]

 16:11:53 <SpamapS> Also no arges here

 16:12:07 <SpamapS> https://launchpad.net/bugs/1009579

 16:12:11 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1009579 in tomcat7 (Ubuntu) "[MIR] tomcat7 (replaces tomcat6)" [High,New]

 16:12:14 <SpamapS> jamespage: ^?

 16:12:27 <jamespage> SpamapS, its in the MIR queue

 16:12:41 <jamespage> tomcat7 got acked - but I pulled in a new dep for testing enablement

 16:12:46 <SpamapS> jdstrand: how is the MIR queue for quantal looking btw?

 16:12:52 <SpamapS> https://launchpad.net/bugs/1014005

 16:12:54 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1014005 in ipxe (Ubuntu) "Please generate and include ipxe.dsk to the ipxe binary package" [Wishlist,Triaged]

 16:13:04 * jamespage is about to add three more package to the MIR queue

 16:13:05 <SpamapS> ipxe, no assignee

 16:13:09 <hallyn> SpamapS: bug 974584, i pinged slangasek yesterday, will do so again today

 16:13:11 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 974584 in sysvinit (Ubuntu Quantal) "Semaphores cannot be created in lxc container" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/974584

 16:13:17 <SpamapS> Daviey: ^^ ? ipxe in your sphere of interest?

 16:13:23 <SpamapS> hallyn: cool

 16:13:35 <hallyn> Daviey somehow things i want to maintain ipxe :)

 16:13:44 <hallyn> so next time we push ipxe, i was going to see about doing 1014005

 16:13:58 <SpamapS> https://launchpad.net/bugs/935516

 16:13:58 <hallyn> haven't looked enough to even be sure it's reasonable

 16:14:00 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 935516 in genshi (Ubuntu Precise) "genshi version 0.6-2 FTBFS on i386 in precise" [High,Triaged]

 16:14:01 <SpamapS> This needs an assignee

 16:14:47 <SpamapS> anyone?

 16:15:13 <Daviey> hallyn: :D

 16:15:44 <SpamapS> moving on

 16:15:45 <SpamapS> Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html

 16:15:46 <Daviey> SpamapS: it's blocked on upstream

 16:16:05 <SpamapS> bad trend line.. ;)

 16:16:23 <arosales> some ARM server blueprint work items came in late

 16:16:46 <hallyn> I think I might need to go through some of my items and break them down further (and other people's lxc items)

 16:16:50 <arosales> I'll try to get the trend line readjusted to accommodate those late additions.

 16:16:54 <hallyn> they certainly are not half-day or less chunks, as we used to aim for

 16:17:19 <SpamapS> I don't know if we can hilight any yet

 16:17:27 <SpamapS> Seems like we're just now really getting definition on them

 16:17:56 <arosales> hallyn: let me know when if you add work items, so I can sync the trend line after that

 16:18:12 <SpamapS> so unless there's a specific blueprint people want to bring up.. I think we should probably move on

 16:18:22 <hallyn> arosales: ok (thanks, didn't know you wanted that)

 16:18:23 <arosales> be nice if we can get a good trend line representation by end of the week

 16:18:47 <SpamapS> indeed

 16:18:50 <SpamapS> #topic 12.04.1 Development (jamespage & smoser)

 16:19:14 <Daviey> desktop-q-xorg-general is essential for server quantal, apparently

 16:19:22 <Daviey> oops, sorry

 16:19:27 <jamespage> http://people.canonical.com/~jamespage/server-sru/precise-sru.html

 16:19:38 <jamespage> Not much to update since last weel

 16:20:09 <jamespage> quite a bit of stuff needs verification - especially around the recent nova upload - zul is there any specific arrangement around that?

 16:20:38 <zul> jamespage: errmm......ill talk to you offline about it

 16:20:41 <SpamapS> With Nova, we need to just make sure the CI tests pass with the packages from proposed

 16:20:46 <jamespage> zul, sure

 16:20:51 <jamespage> SpamapS, ack

 16:21:06 <adam_g> if thats all we need, we can have something referenced on them soon

 16:21:19 <SpamapS> Other than that, verification of any High/Criticals that have actual test cases would be appreciated, but is not necessary. The update will move to -updates when all the CI tests have worked.

 16:21:34 <Daviey> SpamapS / zul: can i be in the offline discussion please

 16:21:49 <zul> Daviey: yep

 16:21:59 <jamespage> if anyone wants to pickup a few SRU's then pick something from the 'Unassigned' list - based on priority would be good

 16:22:19 <jamespage> Daviey, smoser: we also need to sort out what MAAS is going to target for 12.04.1

 16:22:34 <Daviey> jamespage: yes.

 16:22:39 <smoser> roaksoax, clearly is involved in that, and "upstream"

 16:22:45 <jamespage> sure

 16:22:54 <Daviey> jamespage: it's semi-blocked atm fwiw

 16:23:05 <SpamapS> Anything else?

 16:23:10 <jamespage> nope

 16:23:18 <SpamapS> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:23:38 <SpamapS> Velocity is this week, with jcastro and hazmat attending, talking about Juju

 16:24:10 * jamespage <- Euro Python next week (talking about Juju)

 16:24:23 <SpamapS> Also OSCON is coming up July 16 - 20 in Portland, and we will have a juju charm school there

 16:24:59 <SpamapS> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:25:07 <SpamapS> no hggdh today

 16:25:12 <SpamapS> Anybody else have QA news though?

 16:25:25 <Daviey> Sort of..

 16:25:39 <jamespage> QA team are starting to transfer ISO test cases to UTAH - meeting with gema next week to review

 16:25:41 <Daviey> If you have an opportunity to try the daily candidates for A2, please do so :)

 16:26:02 <Daviey> jamespage: Gema will be here?

 16:26:12 <jamespage> no not here - outside of this meeting

 16:26:20 <Daviey> jamespage: can i be pinged into that please?

 16:26:25 <jamespage> Daviey, sure

 16:26:36 <smoser> wait...

 16:26:36 <jamespage> later in the week

 16:26:42 <smoser> wait. daily candidates?

 16:26:46 <smoser> are we not expecting kernel upload still?

 16:26:50 <smoser> smb, ?

 16:26:56 <smb> done

 16:27:13 <smb> Kernel 3.5.0-2.2 has been uploaded to quantal-proposed (i386 ec2 issue)

 16:27:18 <smoser> and we have ISOs that have those in it?

 16:27:20 <smb> about 2 hrs ago

 16:27:33 <Daviey> no, not yet

 16:27:36 <SpamapS> good segue

 16:27:39 <SpamapS> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:27:41 <smoser> well, then testing would make no sense.

 16:27:41 <Daviey> I will spin new images shortly

 16:27:47 <smoser> Daviey, can you do that?

 16:27:52 <smoser> the kernel is in -proposed

 16:27:58 <smb> Apart from ther quantal kernel... Finally the scheduler bug that tried to drive me crazy has been identified. A proper upstream fix is under discussion and testing.

 16:27:59 <smoser> so we wont even pick it up in cloud iamge builds.

 16:28:03 <SpamapS> Daviey: sorry thought you were done begging for ISO testers ;)

 16:28:04 <smb> ..

 16:28:04 <smoser> by design we do not pick up proposed.

 16:28:10 <Daviey> smoser: I'm on the hook for spinning cd's this week

 16:28:27 <Daviey> smb: have the bug number?

 16:28:32 <smoser> i guess i should have realized this change earlier, but did not.

 16:28:44 <smb> Daviey, of what. Things are a bit jumbled up... ;)

 16:28:58 <smoser> ie if we're using -proposed during the development cycle, then our cloud image builds will not pick from it, ever.

 16:29:03 <Daviey> smb: Do you have bug numbers for anything concerning you? :)

 16:29:19 <Daviey> smoser: Yes, same as cd images.

 16:29:33 <smb> bug 999755

 16:29:34 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 999755 in linux (Ubuntu) "Kernel crash in rb_next doing ohai loops" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/999755

 16:30:23 <smb> Otherwise nothing of immediate importance

 16:31:10 <SpamapS> Settled then?

 16:31:21 <SpamapS> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:31:44 <Daviey> ta

 16:33:35 <SpamapS> rbasak: ^^

 16:33:55 * Daviey does a little jig whilst waiting.

 16:34:33 <SpamapS> rbasak: we'll come back if you have anything

 16:34:42 <SpamapS> #topic Welcome jimbaker to Server team (arosales).

 16:34:58 <SpamapS> jimbaker`: welcome.. again? ;)

 16:35:01 <arosales> SpamapS: sorry that didn't removed from last week

 16:35:10 <arosales> but welcome jimbaker` to the server team :-)

 16:35:11 <Daviey> woot.. double welcome, he must be special

 16:35:16 <SpamapS> we should make it a weekly item tho

 16:35:18 <jimbaker`> thanks!

 16:35:18 <Daviey> (my fault for not remvoing it)

 16:35:20 <SpamapS> really, we want to be welcoming

 16:35:26 <SpamapS> #topic Open Discussion

 16:36:12 <SpamapS> o/` Henry Kissinger.. I've been missing ya.. o/`

 16:37:05 <SpamapS> Alright, everybody is busy and ready to work, so... without further adue..

 16:37:24 <SpamapS> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:37:41 <Daviey> lets go home.

 16:37:54 <SpamapS> Tuesday, July 3, 16:00 UTC, here in #ubuntu-meeting

 16:38:03 <SpamapS> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
