{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** No previous (May 20th) actions to follow up on.
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

No outstanding actions for this meeting, other than reminding everyone to keep work items updated.

Louis (caribou) reported that he's improving the networked kernel crash dump functionality and has a PPA available to test: ppa:louis-bouchard/networked-kdump
More details about this work can be found at: http://caribou.kamikamamak.com/2014/05/20/remote-kernel-crash-dump-for-debian-and-ubuntu/

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Jun 3rd at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <matsubara> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue May 27 16:00:17 2014 UTC.  The chair is matsubara. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <matsubara> Hello, welcome to this week Ubuntu server team meeting!
[16:00] <beisner> o/   hi
[16:00] <rharper> \o
[16:00] <matsubara> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:00] <matsubara> No previous (May 20th) actions to follow up on.
[16:00] <matsubara> #topic Utopic Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Utopic Development
[16:01] <matsubara> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
[16:01] <coreycb> o/
[16:01] <smoser> o/
[16:01] <lutostag> o/
[16:01] <matsubara> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:01] <matsubara> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:02] <matsubara> (first time chairing this meeting so bear with me)
[16:02] <matsubara> some juju bugs there that need triage
[16:03] <matsubara> and another bug assigned to Ben with no status
[16:03] <matsubara> oh, actually it's invalid.
[16:03] <matsubara> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:04] <matsubara> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-u-servercloud-overview.html
[16:04] <matsubara> that's a 404
[16:04] <matsubara> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
[16:04] <matsubara> this one should be the right one
[16:05] <matsubara> looking good, some progress being made towards utopic.
[16:05] <matsubara> If anyone wants to raise something, please do stop me :-)
[16:05] <matsubara> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server
[16:06] <matsubara> everyone, please keep your work items updated to reflect in the status.ubuntu.com page above...
[16:06] <matsubara> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:07] <matsubara> caribou, anything from you today?
[16:07] <caribou> matsubara: not a bug but I've been working on improving the kernel crash dump functionality
[16:07] <caribou> more precisely on networked kernel dumps
[16:07] <caribou> there is a test PPA available.
[16:07] <caribou> aside from that, nothing particular
[16:08] <matsubara> caribou, thanks, if you can paste the link to the PPA, I'll include it in the meeting minutes
[16:09] <caribou> matsubara: ppa:louis-bouchard/networked-kdump
[16:09] <matsubara> thanks
[16:09] <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:09] <matsubara> psivaa-sprint, anything from you guys sprinting?
[16:10] <matsubara> moving on
[16:10] <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
[16:11] <matsubara> no smb or sforshee today
[16:11] <matsubara> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:12] <matsubara> Any upcoming server team event?
[16:12] <matsubara> ok, moving on
[16:12] <matsubara> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:13] <matsubara> If you have anything server team related to raise, now is the time. :-)
[16:13] <caribou> matsubara: details about my kdump work : http://caribou.kamikamamak.com/2014/05/20/remote-kernel-crash-dump-for-debian-and-ubuntu/
[16:14] <caribou> btw, I created a blueprint for this but now I realize that it will not be required
[16:14] <caribou> as the enhancement will come in Debian first
[16:14] <matsubara> thanks caribou. I'll make sure to publish that as well. Is there any action you need someone in the server team to take related to that?
[16:15] <caribou> no not atm
[16:15] <matsubara> caribou, ok. thanks for the update!
[16:15] <matsubara> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:16] <matsubara> Next meeting on the 3rd of June, same bat time. Thanks for joining.
[16:16] <arosales> matsubara, thanks for charing :-)
[16:16] <gnuoy> thanks matsubara
[16:16] <caribou> thank matsubara
[16:16] <matsubara> you're welcome.
[16:16] <matsubara> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:16] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue May 27 16:16:49 2014 UTC.
[16:16] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-05-27-16.00.moin.txt
</pre>
