{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   10:00 mdz        time to get started
   === pitti calls doko
   10:01 mdz        will SMS  BenC
   10:01 fabbione   somebody sends an SMS to benc?
   10:01 fabbione   score
   10:01 mdz        sfllaw: you're up first
   10:01 sfllaw     Backwards again?
   10:01 sfllaw     STATISTICS
   10:01 sfllaw     ==========
   10:01 sfllaw     Since last week's Distro meeting...
   10:01 sfllaw     Unconfirmed and unassigned bugs of severity >= normal: 1218 -> 1152
   10:01 sfllaw     Needs Info bugs: 1341 -> 1356
   10:01 sfllaw     Dapper bugs: 106 -> 104
   10:01 sfllaw     Bugs without packages: 1056 -> 998
   10:01 sfllaw     Ever since we started the current Bug Day, until now, we have closed 316 bugs.
   10:01 sfllaw     SUMMARY
   10:01 sfllaw     =======
   10:01 sfllaw     Bug triaging, bug triaging, bug triaging.
   10:01 sfllaw     Met with lifeless and BenC about kernel bug triaging.
   === doko_ [n=doko@dslb-088-073-095-044.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:02 sfllaw     Organised stuff in the wiki to support bug triaging.
   10:02 sfllaw     Collected volunteers to do bug triaging, and then trained them.
   10:02 sfllaw     To do: Create the dial-up team.
   10:02 sfllaw     And more triaging.
   10:02 pitti      doko's mobile is off, sorry
   10:03 infinity   pitti: The same doko who just joined the channel?
   10:03 mdz        pitti: he just joined
   10:03 pitti      oh, heh; doko: good morning :)
   10:03 Riddell    "dial-up team" good idea, kppp needs some testing
   10:03 sfllaw     I should probably fix my WvDial bugs too, eh?
   10:03 infinity   sfllaw: Yes please, so I can sync your Debian changes.
   10:04 mdz        sfllaw: might want to skip the headings and otherwise shorten your paste, so it doesn't get so throttled
   10:04 sfllaw     Ah.  I wasn't ready, so I was typing the summary on the fly.
   10:04 sfllaw     I expected to be on the end, this week.
   10:04 mdz        aha
   10:04 mdz        sfllaw: when there are stragglers, we often start at the opposite end ;-)
   10:05 mdz        sfllaw: thanks for the stats
   10:05 mdz        wiki is looking good as well
   === slomo_ [n=slomo@ubuntu/member/slomo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:05 mdz        seb128: next?
   10:05 seb128     this week: bugs triage and fixing (still lot of new bugs, not easy to keep up with dholbach busy on icons and other stuff most of the time)
   10:05 seb128     next week: bugs triage and fixing
   10:06 pitti      seb128: that's 100% the same as last week :)
   10:06 mdz        dholbach: I asked mvo to see if he could help you with icons
   10:06 seb128     pitti: yeah, my weeks are boring :p
   10:06 dholbach   mdz: yes, I'll chat with him after the meeting - thanks.
   10:06 seb128     pitti: but I didn't mention dholbach being busy previous week I think
   === sivang is here as well
   10:06 mdz        seb128: any new bugs of note?
   10:07 seb128     "of note"?
   10:07 pitti      seb128: I think I shall find some time this week to tackle the gnomevfs naming weirdness, maybe with some hints from you
   10:07 mdz        seb128: worth mentioning
   10:07 seb128     pitti: would be nice :)
   10:07 seb128     mdz: not really, most of new bugs are duplicates or minor issues
   10:07 mdz        that's my impression as well
   10:07 seb128     mdz: the number of dapper milestoned bugs is going down
   10:07 seb128     which is good :)
   10:07 dholbach   yeah
   10:08 mdz        seb128: thanks
   10:08 mdz        Riddell: next?
   10:08 Riddell    done: flight 7 testing, linuxtag meetings, memory requirements testing, breezy upgrade testing, bugfixing, ubiquity programming
   10:08 Riddell    also: testing heno's winfoss (really nice), testing new adept
   10:08 Riddell    next week: bug triage and fixing
   10:08 mdz        Riddell: happy with ubiquity now?
   10:09 Riddell    mdz: I've some changes to push today but yes it's working well
   10:10 mdz        Riddell: I came across that old ICEauthority ownership bug and thought it warranted a look for dapper; any other long-standing bugs that deserve attention for the release?
   10:11 Riddell    changing timezones needs to be looked at, it doesn't make the symlinks correctly
   10:11 Kamion     ubiquity worldclock needs to be sorted out or deferred
   10:11 Kamion     and the qtparted comes-up-with-the-wrong-size bug needs to be sorted
   10:11 pitti      mdz: in kubuntu? gdm has a function for sanitizing .ICEauthority, this could be copied if necessary (it's not nice, but works)
   10:11 Riddell    pitti: interesting
   10:11 Kamion     Riddell: would you mind subscribing to ubiquity bugmail? a lot of the new ones coming in are KDE-specific
   10:11 Riddell    Kamion: probably deferred
   10:12 pitti      Riddell: let's talk after the meeting if you want
   10:12 mdz        pitti: I referred to bug #8785
   10:12 Riddell    Kamion: ok (although any that mention kde already come though to me)
   10:12 Ubugtu     Malone bug 8785 in kdelibs "kdeinit changes ownership of ~/.ICEauthority if run via (a kde program via) sudo" [Major,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/8785
   10:12 Kamion     Riddell: they do? you don't show up as subscribed
   10:12 Kamion     oh, you have a mad ubuntu-bugs filter I guess
   10:12 Riddell    Kamion: I filter ubuntu-ubugs on kde and kubuntu
   10:13 Riddell    mdz: that one should be fixed, will investigate
   10:13 mdz        Riddell: yes, I know; I made the fix ;-)
   10:13 mdz        it was 1.5 years old and seemed to generate a lot of questions on the lists and forums
   10:14 mdz        anyway, something to look for as you're browsing the bug list.  fixing that sort of bug is a win for polish
   10:14 mdz        Riddell: thanks
   10:14 mdz        pitti: next?
   === ogra always thought that was an exclusive k3b bug
   10:14 pitti      reducing-duplication: no progress since last week
   10:14 pitti      firewall: bounty deadline is over; I contacted Carsten three weeks ago, and again last week; the final settlements with his uni got delayed a bit because he got ill, but now he is well and up again and promised to contact me soon
   10:14 pitti      general stuff done in the past two week:
   10:14 pitti      * some security updates (quite a few not-too-terrible ones are outstanding, will catch up soon)
   10:14 pitti      * bug fixing
   10:14 pitti      * cups 1.2 final! yeah!
   10:14 pitti      * fixed a bunch of packages missing a POT file; together with mvo and Riddell we killed the original list; carlos updated it yesterday, we are almost there: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissingPotFiles
   10:15 pitti      * bug triage status: At the expense of spending half of my day on Malone every day, I am now in control of my bugs; assigned and +packagebugs (exception: gnome-cups-manager) are all at least looked at, have correct severity, and the low-hanging fruit bugs and most of the really bad ones are fixed
   10:15 mdz        ogra: it's only that a lot of people ran k3b under sudo
   10:15 pitti      plan for next week:
   10:15 pitti      * deal with final bits of POT file generation in packages, coordinate with carlos, build new langpacks tomorrow
   10:15 ogra       ah
   10:15 pitti      * start gnome-cups-manager bug triage and fix some which bite many people
   10:15 pitti      * finally deal with SoC applications (yes, I'm a slacker, sorry)
   10:15 JaneW      pitti!
   10:15 ogra       pitti, we could send you pygi :)
   10:15 JaneW      we have till 22 to finalise those, so we mustn't lag to much...
   10:15 pitti      ogra: pygi what for?
   10:16 mdz        pitti: any dapper-targeted bugs on your list?
   10:16 ogra       pitti, nagging you to do your SoC stuff, he's pretty good in that :)
   10:16 pitti      mdz: yes, 8 so far
   10:16 mdz        pitti: all fixable in time for the release?
   10:16 pitti      mdz: I'll take a look at my bug list again soon and will probably mark some more, but the current list is pretty good, I think
   === silbs [n=jane@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:17 seb128     (pitti: thank you for not mentionning me on the POT update task :p)
   10:17 pitti      mdz: 'Gimp help files are not installed by default' (bug 14597) requires some discussion, the rest should be fine
   10:17 Ubugtu     Malone bug 14597 in gimp "Gimp help files are not installed by default" [Wishlist,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/14597
   10:17 pitti      seb128: oops, sorry
   10:17 seb128     np ;)
   10:17 pitti      yes, seb128 rocked there
   10:18 pitti      mdz: oh, bug 23102 is not for dapper, sorry
   10:18 Ubugtu     Malone bug 23102 in gnome-volume-manager "Enable autoprinter by default" [Wishlist,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/23102
   10:18 mdz        unfortunately there are quite a few bugs with bogus milestones due to random people setting them
   10:18 mdz        but I try to prune the list from time to time
   10:18 mdz        I've asked for malone to show in a tooltip who set the milestone, and also to have some access control for changing it
   10:19 mdz        thanks pitti
   10:19 mdz        ogra: next?
   10:19 ogra       * general: doc work, bug triage, linuxtag talk, fixed all non whishlist ltsp bugs, dropped all unused sounds from gcompris binaries (gains 5.5M on the CD)
   10:19 ogra       * next-week: triage/fix RC bugs, flight 8, final polish (artwork/docs) for edubuntu CDs
   10:19 mdz        ogra: how was linuxtag for you?
   10:19 ogra       great
   10:20 ogra       i'm invited to talk in front of teachers from a district in baden wuertemberg
   10:20 ogra       (mvo's area)
   10:20 sfllaw     Stylish!
   10:20 ogra       they probably want to use edubuntu on several schools there
   10:20 mdz        about how many people attended the Ubuntu talks?
   10:20 ogra       marks ~500
   10:20 ogra       i havent seen raphnik
   10:20 ogra       mine ~70-80
   10:20 ogra       Riddell, might know about raphniks
   10:21 Riddell    he had about the same size audience as ogra did
   10:21 dholbach   mvo: we had about 120+?
   10:21 mvo        yeah > 100 I think, the room was pretty filed
   10:21 mdz        ogra: is the final artwork/docs ready to be uploaded today?
   10:21 ogra       for me the intresting part was that the people followed me for another 30min afterwards :)
   10:21 ogra       mdz, yep
   10:21 mdz        ogra: did they ask for your autograph? ;-)
   10:21 dholbach   they asked for mine! WHOOO!
   10:22 ogra       hehe, nope, but a lot ltsp and edubuntu questions :)
   10:22 juliux     dholbach, and you didnt give me one ;)
   10:22 mdz        nice
   10:22 mdz        ogra: thanks
   === mvo hugs dholbach
   10:22 mdz        mvo: next?
   10:22 mvo        Did:
   10:22 mvo        * linuxtag presentation with dholbach
   10:22 mvo        * bug triage/fixing (lvm2, devmapper, update-manager, unattended-upgrades, gnome-app-install, update-notifier, dist-upgrader, ..)
   10:22 mvo        * upgrade testing
   10:22 mvo        * Goggle SoC review
   10:22 mvo        * 3rd party packages work (for the app-installer)
   10:22 mvo        Will do:
   10:22 mvo        * more bugfixing/bug triage
   10:22 mvo        * help dholbach with the icons
   10:22 mvo        * setup ppc auto-dist-upgrade (either infinites ppc or dholbachs new but aged g4 ppc machine)
   10:23 fabbione   mvo: do you want access to mine too?
   10:23 fabbione   i can slam it somewhere online for you
   10:23 mdz        mvo: for some reason, awareness of the dist-upgrade feature in update-manager seems to be low still
   10:23 mdz        mvo: according to elmo there were relatively few downloads of it during the days after beta
   10:23 mvo        mdz: I can announce it again (maybe on u-d-a?)
   10:24 mdz        I've also corrected people on -users about the best way to upgrade
   10:24 mdz        I think that people just don't click through to the upgrade instructions if they have done it before
   10:24 mvo        fabbione: yeah, lets talk about it after the meeting
   10:24 mdz        or read the release notes
   10:24 fabbione   mvo: yup
   10:24 mdz        mvo: maybe something on the fridge?  someone's blog on planet?
   10:24 dholbach   a blog entry with screenshot might help :)
   10:24 dholbach   i can do that
   10:25 mdz        ok, cool
   10:25 mvo        dholbach: can you do it? that would be lovely
   === mvo should consider getting a log
   10:25 dholbach   mvo: add it to the list of things to chat about
   10:25 mvo        blog
   10:25 mdz        mvo: any bugs found in upgrade testing?
   10:25 mvo        mdz: no, we look good currently, one issue with nvidia-glx and dpkg-divert needs more investigation
   10:25 mdz        I hate that package
   10:26 infinity   Amen.
   === fabbione sighs
   10:26 infinity   mvo: I seem to recall following up to that bug.
   === angystardust [n=angystar@adsl203-164-061.mclink.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:26 mvo        and I got some positive feedback from people doing a sucessful upgrade
   10:26 mdz        add to the edgy list: remove dpkg-divert from dpkg
   10:26 fabbione   mvo: did you address the main -> universe demotion thingy?
   10:26 mvo        infinity: yes you did, the ball is in my court
   10:26 mvo        dpkg 2.0!
   10:26 Keybuk     mdz: can we remove update-alternatives too?
   10:26 mvo        fabbione: not yet
   10:26 fabbione   mvo: ok thanks
   10:27 Keybuk     mvo: http://multiarch.alioth.debian.org/dpkg2.pdf
   10:27 mdz        Keybuk: I'd like to, but I think that touches more packages ;-)
   10:27 mdz        mvo: thanks
   10:27 mdz        Mithrandir: next?
   10:27 Mithrandir misc: flight-7 release, bug triage, booked flights to Paris, SoC application rating
   10:27 Mithrandir next week: flight 8 preparation, some popcon fiddling, casper bugfixes, bug triage, Constitution Day (May 17th)
   10:27 Mithrandir blocked: no
   10:27 mvo        Keybuk: cool! will we get it for edgy?
   10:28 Mithrandir I'm going to announce the flight 8 freeze on u-d-a this time, probably on Wednesday evening or something.
   10:28 JaneW      Mithrandir: yes please give ogra at least a day's warning...
   10:28 heno       Mithrandir: did you get my popcon layout stuff (by email)?
   10:28 mdz        Mithrandir: do you think we can trim any further unionfs memory usage in casper?
   10:28 mdz        the kernel module locking is a tricky one
   10:28 JaneW      mdz: and the flight announcement to go to u-d-a as well this time?
   10:28 Mithrandir heno: no, I'm planning to do that and cron popcon today or tomorrow.
   10:28 ogra       JaneW, he already warned me :)
   10:29 JaneW      ogra: good :)
   10:29 mdz        JaneW,Mithrandir: yes, fine...as the sab wishes it
   10:29 Mithrandir mdz: I'll have to test a bit, but yes, we should be able to cut it somewhat.
   === imbrandon [n=brandon@unaffiliated/imbrandon] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:29 mdz        I wonder if we should add a low-memory boot option which disables l-r-m
   10:29 Mithrandir mdz: I need to see what unionfs thinks about me removing files underneath its feet.
   10:29 ogra       mdz++
   10:30 mdz        19M is a lot of memory
   10:30 ogra       yep
   10:30 Kamion     we're 5M down on that
   10:30 ogra       was a major gain in ltsp to drop it
   10:30 Mithrandir heno: that is, I got it, but I haven't done anything about it.
   10:30 Kamion     if you're including templates.dat-old
   10:30 mdz        Kamion: I mean l-r-m alone is 19M
   10:30 Kamion     oh, wow
   10:30 mdz        yes, nvidia+nvidia_legacy is close to 10
   10:31 mdz        and I expect very rarely used on the live CD
   10:31 pitti      mdz: it's just nice for the sake of installing it with ubiquity
   10:31 Mithrandir hmm, it'd be sweet if we could use a compressed tmpfs instead of just a regular one, too.
   10:31 ogra       we should probably also drop xscreensaver-data-gl from the liveCd as well then
   10:31 Mithrandir but that's eft material, I think.
   10:31 mdz        pitti: we don't need the modules in memory for that; they'll be linked on first boot of the real system
   10:32 pitti      ah, yes
   10:32 infinity   mdz: capser could write out a temporary /etc/default/l-r-m that disabled nvidia and fglrx linking, so only the networky modules are built.
   10:32 mdz        thoughts on whether we should drop everything but the wireless driver from l-r-m on the live CD?
   10:33 Mithrandir infinity: sure, that'd work.
   10:33 mdz        that would save us 17M of memory
   10:33 mdz        and folks who really need them can just run lrm-manager, right?
   10:33 Kamion     ogra: at the moment we have no mechanism for something to be in desktop (i.e. installed by default on d-i installs) but not on the live CD, and given how ubiquity works I don't think it's wise to try to create one
   10:33 ogra       Kamion, well, yes, but its probably an option for edgy
   10:33 infinity   mdz: Erm, if we fiddle with /etc/default/l-r-m, then lrm-manager will also ignore them.  But casper could let them link and then unlink them, I guess.
   10:33 mdz        infinity: indeed
   10:34 mdz        Mithrandir: could you and infinity brainstorm about that a bit?  it's well worth the savings I think
   10:34 Mithrandir mdz: sure.
   10:34 mdz        so long as it's a single command to get them back if the user really wants them, that's easy to document
   10:34 mdz        Mithrandir: thanks
   10:34 mdz        Kinnison: next?
   10:34 Kamion     ogra: no, I don't think it is either, it's a fundamental problem
   10:34 Kamion     ogra: ubiquity cannot copy it to the installed system if it's not on the live CD
   10:35 ogra       right
   10:35 ogra       :/
   10:35 Kinnison   gnome-power-manager: Lots of bugs dealt with for this, I have another update for later today related to brightness buttons.
   10:35 Kinnison   distro-other: Tidied an acpi-support issue for toshibas, got new upstream for powernowd done, various other bits of bug investigation etc. Provided fairly simple consultancy on dbus stuff for gnome logout screen.
   10:35 mvo        Kamion: would it be possible to install it on the target system with apt (or python-apt)?
   10:35 Kinnison   launchpad: Helped with the multi-libraryfilealias issue a bit more, vaguely attended the soyuz-workup-for-dapper meeting.
   10:35 Kinnison   ongoing: Some more g-p-m stuff, and continuing with the general bugs today. I only have one day for "next week" because I'll be off work moving house.
   10:35 Kinnison   bug-status: The bug list isn't shrinking but the growth rate is smaller :-)
   10:35 Kinnison   request: Will someone please volunteer to take on g-p-m for the week I'm away?
   10:35 sladen     if lspci gives no ATI/Nvidia PCI IDs, it would seem logical not to build them on that boot
   10:36 Kamion     mvo: requires network access
   10:36 Kamion     mvo: which we only really want to do for language packs, imho
   10:36 mvo        Kamion: agreed
   10:37 Kinnison   paris: finally heard I'm going to be going as a soyuz representative, need to book flights
   10:37 Kinnison   [end]
   10:37 Kinnison   sorry, dunno why that took so long to get through
   10:37 mdz        Kinnison: do you expect it to need anything more than watching for uber-critical bugs?
   === Kinnison doesn't expect g-p-m to need more than critical fixes, and I don't expect any of those
   === Kinnison just doesn't want people left without the ability to suspend, esp. since we're working to make the logout dialog signal g-p-m to do the work
   10:38 pitti      Kinnison: we still need to sort out that dbus atconsole bug one way or the other
   10:38 pitti      I think that's fairly critical
   10:38 Kinnison   pitti: Yes, but is that not a dbus issue directly?
   10:38 mdz        that sounded messy to fix for dapper
   10:38 pitti      Kinnison: well, it is in our ubuntu version
   10:38 pitti      I doubt that we'll get a dbus solution for dapper
   10:38 pitti      so we should at least do the 'cooperative' workaround with g-p-m checking the foreground console itself
   10:38 Kinnison   pitti: can we talk about this after the meeting? I may have time today to engineer a solution into g-p-m
   10:39 pitti      Kinnison: yes, let's
   10:39 Kinnison   pitti: cool
   10:39 sladen     Kinnison: I'll see how the next week goes, and look over the g-p-m bugs with slightly more attention...
   10:39 Kinnison   sladen: thanks
   10:39 mdz        ok
   10:39 mdz        Kinnison: thanks
   === Kinnison will have his cellphone and will endeavour to put his new landline on the wiki as soon as he knows it
   10:39 mdz        Keybuk: next?
   10:39 mvo        sladen: ping me in case you need a sponsor
   10:40 Keybuk     gah, need to unbury my postit
   10:40 Keybuk     nothing much to report, fixed a whole lot of bugs, had an n-m bug day and got them all filed upstream, decided to drop the iftab-fixing code after all as it was generating more bugs than it closed; we can look at a Debian/SuSE-style fix later. done SoC stuff. done some ftp master stuff.
   10:40 mdz        Keybuk: any particular bug targets for next week?
   10:40 Keybuk     I haven't got any particular bugs I need to fix before release
   10:41 Keybuk     so I'm going to go roaming through Malone looking for some that could use a loving hand
   10:41 JaneW      SoC evals for you then
   10:41 sfllaw     JaneW: You're a quick draw.
   10:41 mdz        Keybuk: "exclude bugs with packages specified" could use a scan for major issues, as we discussed
   10:41 Keybuk     yup
   10:41 mdz        JaneW: when is the deadline?
   10:41 JaneW      sfllaw: desperation breeds it
   10:41 Kinnison   Keybuk: there may be low-hanging fruit in the powermanagement arena if you want to have a flick through gnome-power-manager acpi-support acpid laptop-mode-tools et al.
   10:42 sfllaw     22 May, is it?
   10:42 Keybuk     JaneW: I did SoC stuff this morning
   10:42 mdz        horrible timing, that
   10:42 JaneW      mdz: we need to have selected, ranked, and matched to mentors by 22 May
   10:42 JaneW      mdz: yes the timing sucks
   10:42 mdz        JaneW: I can help with the ranking starting next week
   10:42 JaneW      but after that it should slack off for a week or 2 as things settle in
   === Hobbsee_ [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:42 JaneW      mdzL great thanks, you can do the final sweep and approve reject round
   10:43 mdz        ok
   10:43 mdz        Keybuk: thanks
   10:43 JaneW      Keybuk: yes I noticed, thanks
   10:43 mdz        Kamion: next?
   === heno just got the candidates to debate amongst themselves on the mailing list, hoping that the good choices will become clear
   === angystardus1 [n=angystar@adsl203-164-061.mclink.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:43 JaneW      heno: that was a good idea
   10:44 mdz        heno: guerilla selection ;-)
   10:44 Kamion     ubiquity: Keeping on top of bugs, just about. Worked on manual partitioner correctness, missing features relative to d-i (hw-detect, initramfs-tools setup), keymaps, i18n, memory usage. Still spending a fair bi
   10:44 Kamion     t of time correcting mistaken duplications/rejections/etc. by triagers. :-(
   10:44 Kamion     next-week: More of the same. I urgently need to sort out final string changes, and look at UTC/local hardware clock configuration and the remaining crash bugs. Also CD image renaming.
   10:44 mdz        Kamion: is the infamous LinuxTag ubiquity bug fixed?
   10:44 Kamion     mdz: LinuxTag the what?
   10:44 mdz        Kamion: apparently there was a crash during the demo at linuxtag
   10:44 ogra       Kamion, ask mvo and dholbach :)
   10:44 JaneW      heno: and helps to find sustained commitment and enthusiasm not just one good write up
   10:44 dholbach   I couldn't reproduce that at all afterwards.
   10:44 Kamion     mdz: nobody identified it as such to me
   10:44 mdz        I believe it was mvo who mentioned it to me
   10:45 Kamion     mdz: it may well be fixed but I have no idea what it was
   10:45 Kamion     dholbach: did you get a crash dump?
   10:45 mvo        Kamion: we had a crash on stage when we demoed ubiquity, but i wasnt able to reproduce it on my home machine (we had it on dholbachs laptop)
   10:45 dholbach   No, sorry - I just tried to save what was to save.
   10:45 Kamion     this is the first I've heard of it
   10:45 ogra       mdz, given that half the world crashed for them it might not even have been an ubiquity bug
   10:46 mdz        note to all: if ubiquity ever crashes, TELL KAMION
   10:46 dholbach   I'll watch out for it during my next test installs.
   10:46 mvo        dholbach: maybe we still have the log?
   10:46 Kamion     about 80% of crashes are duplicates, but there are still a few new ones appearing
   10:46 mvo        dholbach: on your machine?
   10:46 dholbach   mvo: I'll have a look.
   10:46 mdz        Kamion: duplicates of fixed crashes or remaining ones?
   10:46 Kamion     mdz: bit of both
   10:47 Kamion     there's a really WEIRD one to do with partman error handling that I haven't tracked down yet; it's getting a lot of dups
   10:47 mdz        ok, time
   10:47 mdz        Kamion: thanks
   === raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:47 JaneW      me next?
   10:47 mdz        JaneW: yes
   10:47 JaneW      This week:
   10:47 JaneW      * Canonical Monthly Report input - long one this month!
   10:47 JaneW      * Ubuntu Dev Team Meeting report, got eaten up in an OOo crash and all changes vanished. Sorry everyone. I haven't had a chance to redo it, so will merge it with this week's report.
   10:47 JaneW      * Google SoC, added new SoC info and co-ord page, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SummerofCode2006, corresponded with mentors and students re applications, co-ordinated with Google's SoC administrator, reviewed applications and assisted with rankings, and ploughed through SoC ML posts and asked and answered questions as appropriate.
   10:47 JaneW      * Edubuntu: Set up EC, inducted new council, approved first Edubuntu member and sent out notices. Team meeting to discuss tech progress (looking great thanks ogra!), cookbook progress and what is still required to complete, artwork - nearing completion ogra to package this soon and explicitly show all 3 themes to management for approval.
   10:47 JaneW      * Assisted with UDS planning, responded to questions and gathered request for sponsorship applications and prepared them for management consideration.
   10:47 JaneW      * Worked with cbx33 to start a proposal to showcase Edubuntu at BETT 2007
   10:47 JaneW      To Do in next week:
   10:47 Keybuk     "UDS" ?
   10:47 JaneW      * Ubuntu dev team meeting report, asap, to make up for last week's lack of report.
   10:47 JaneW      * Get all SoC applications properly evaluated by the mentors and ranked. Top 30 to be unique projects and students and assigned to (preferably unique)mentors.
   10:47 JaneW      * respond to press enquiries re Ubuntu's SoC participation.
   10:47 JaneW      * Plan UDS further, notify successful and unsuccessful sponsorship applicants of their applications status, contact other invited guests, figure out logistics of how to handle UDS scheduling with Jamesh's 'Schedul-o-matic', co-ord UDS staff arrangements.
   10:47 mvo        JaneW: did you report the OOo crash to doko :P ?
   10:47 JaneW      * * Edubuntu: Look at including Chris' Installing Edubuntu Tutorial video, need to get it in .ogg format too. Chase cookbook deadline to make sure we'll have something completed in time, make sure artwork is packaged and completed successfully.
   10:48 JaneW      * Whatever else comes up.
   10:48 JaneW      sorry very verbose!
   10:48 JaneW      Ubuntu dev Summit
   10:48 mdz        JaneW: speaking of the monthly report, saw some odd stuff in there...mentions of LTSP changes which were surely made months earlier
   10:48 dholbach   I thought that was UFK now! :-p
   10:48 infinity   Shouldn't that be "Ubuntu Avec Fromage" or something?
   === ogra still likes UbuntuFrenchKiss :)
   10:48 JaneW      mvo: I think it was self-caused, and preceded by several FF crashes
   10:48 JaneW      a reboot fixed it
   === dholbach high-fives ogra
   === ogra high fives back
   10:48 sivang     infinity: hmmm
   10:48 Kinnison   UbuntuFrenchLetter
   10:48 sivang     infinity: sounds yummy
   10:49 JaneW      mdz: yes the LTSP change was mentioned in beta announcement, but it transpired it was pretty old news, sorry
   10:49 ogra       mdz, i merged all changes we did in flights for the beta
   10:49 mdz        JaneW: I'm always happy to review the report input with you before it goes out
   10:50 JaneW      mdz: yes I think I will do that next time, I was not wanting to bother you, as it was a busy time
   10:50 ogra       (in the announcement that is)
   10:50 mdz        JaneW: doesn't take long to scan over it; much less time than when I try to write something
   10:50 JaneW      mdz: noted
   10:50 mdz        JaneW: thanks
   10:50 mdz        iwj: next?
   10:51 iwj        Last week: firefox bugs, dpkg bugs, gs bugs, other bugs.
   10:51 iwj        Last week: firefox 1.5.0.3.  Frank Shoep's ff themes.
   10:51 iwj        Next week: more of the same.
   10:51 infinity   iwj: Doing firefox 1.5.0.3 again next week? :)
   10:51 iwj        :-P
   10:51 mdz        iwj: anything notable on the dpkg radar?
   10:51 iwj        Not really, no.
   10:52 iwj        infinity: seriously, I wouldn't be surprised if a 1.5.0.4 turned up at the most inconvenient possible moment.
   10:52 pitti      iwj: do you happen to have any inclination to update tbird to 1.5.0.2?
   10:52 mdz        iwj: we could use your help in a lot of areas beyond firefox; are there any critical issues remaining there?
   10:52 pitti      tbird is fairly critical; I can do it myself if nobody else has time, though
   10:52 iwj        I have a list of 13 bugs that ought to be investigated and probably fixed.
   10:53 iwj        But I might have a bit of time left over.  Anywhere in particular I should direct my attention ?
   10:53 mdz        iwj: if they are important to fix for dapper, please set a dapper milestone and I wil monitor that list
   10:53 infinity   pitti: It's on my list, as I have to merge some stuff from asac.
   10:53 mdz        iwj: sfllaw is the person to speak to regarding bug targets
   10:54 infinity   pitti: I was waiting for him to get 1.5.0.2 into Debian (which he's done), but the merge is non-trivial, since we're forked currently.
   10:54 iwj        mdz: sfllaw> Right.
   10:54 mdz        iwj: it's worth having a conversation and seeing where he needs the most help
   10:54 mdz        ok
   10:54 mdz        iwj: thanks
   10:54 mdz        infinity: next?
   10:54 pitti      infinity: so maybe we shuold just update our version for now to get the plethora of security fixes?
   10:54 infinity   last week distro: Been hacking on initramfs-tools (and related: evms, mdadm, lvm) bugs, and when I get stumped there and need a brain refresher, I've context-switched to pulling PHP patches from CVS, fixing random bugs on my list, and doing archive maintenance.
   10:54 infinity   last week buildd: Did a mass give-back on the failed builds, monitoring those, also going through all the failed logs from a recent -autotest run and starting to categorise and triage those.
   10:54 infinity   next week distro: Should be uploading a mess of initramfs-tools versions (well, if I do this right, only a few), plus some pending UVF bumps, and the PHP security junk.
   10:54 infinity   next week buildd: Need to finish going through build failures, make the universe logs available to MOTU, and start another -autotest run.
   10:54 infinity   general 1: During the last couple of weeks of release crunch, I'm intending to mangle my core hours a bit more than usual to be more available to the Europeans.  This will be particularly useful if I end up having to drive launchpad by hand at any point.
   10:54 infinity   general 2: While it's not strictly my domain as core-dev or a Canonical employee, I'm sick of getting bug reports about segfaults caused by symbol clashes when two MySQL client libs are loaded at the same time.  I'd like to transition all of universe to libmysqlclient15 and drop the old ones from the archive, if that's okay.
   10:55 dholbach   infinity: I can file bugs for that, if you want me to.
   10:55 dholbach   infinity: the MOTU crowd is happy to work on those bugs.
   10:55 infinity   dholbach: Sure, but the time it takes to file a bug is about the time it takes to edit debian/control and upload.
   10:55 Mithrandir infinity: that's mostly just rebuilding with changed Build-deps, isn't it?
   10:56 infinity   Mithrandir: Yeah.
   10:56 fabbione   Mithrandir: most of them yes
   10:56 dholbach   infinity: i have a massfile script :)
   10:56 infinity   dholbach: Either way, if you're prefer to hand it to MOTU, go nuts, but I do want to see these bugs fixed.
   10:56 infinity   Since the symbol clashes affect packages in main, and the bug reports are never well-aimed.
   10:56 mdz        infinity: can you post the list of build failures to -devel to distribute that task some?
   10:56 infinity   ("apache crashes, help!" being the most common type of report)
   10:57 ogra       tell them to use apache2 :P
   10:57 infinity   mdz: Yeahp, I'll do so when done triaging, so people with more QA time can poke at them.
   10:57 infinity   ogra: Same problem.
   10:57 ogra       infinity, i wasnt serious :)
   10:57 mdz        infinity: thanks
   10:57 mdz        heno: next?
   10:57 heno       * kubuntu-winfoss: completed
   10:57 heno       * example-content: making some changes based on user feedback.
   10:57 heno       * ubuntu accessibility: I need to devote this week to testing and following up reports. The core AT packages work reliably on my installed system, but people are reporting mixed results on the Live CD. Key applications like Firefox and OpenOffice still have poor AT support (but that's true of every distro). Ubiquity reveals some access info when poked, but doesn't work with the screen reader.
   10:57 heno       * Other: We have two very promising SoC a11y projects emerging; a new on-screen keyboard and a new magnifier
   10:58 mdz        heno: silbs noted that you were handling the community-contributed wallpaper to be included in dapper; I remember that being in example-content but it seems to be gone now.  does it have a new home?
   10:58 Riddell    kubuntu-winfoss is lovely, thanks heno
   === ogra hopes not the Xgl magnifier
   10:58 JaneW      heno: have you managed to find the best proposal for each yet?
   10:58 JaneW      heno: let me know if you want me to find all the urls for you or something
   10:59 dholbach   mdz: I was supposed to package that for Universe, but nobody provided me with a list or tarball yet.
   10:59 heno       mdz: it's no longer in e-c, right. It should be packaged with aubuntu-artwork I guess or separately
   10:59 mdz        I'm happy for it to go in -artwork; as I recall it was reasonably sized
   10:59 heno       the art team ws supposed tp pick some. I'll ping them about it
   10:59 dholbach   Ok.
   10:59 Riddell    heno: kwwii will be looking at kubuntuifying example-content, I'll need to think about the best way to package that
   11:00 mdz        Riddell: what sort of content would be kubuntu-specific?
   11:00 heno       and if they still don't manage I can pick some
   11:00 Riddell    mdz: not much, just stuff like the presentation slides with kubuntu logo instead of ubuntu
   11:00 heno       Riddell: OK let me know what comes out of that
   === angystardust [n=angystar@adsl203-164-061.mclink.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:01 heno       JaneW: there are still 2-3 good candidates for each project
   11:01 JaneW      heno: ok let them fight it out :)
   11:01 mdz        Riddell: if it's different enough to be a separate package, it's probably too late; that would need casper integration etc.
   11:01 mdz        Riddell: but if there's something small we could add to the existing package, that's grand
   11:01 Riddell    ok, we'll keep it small
   11:01 mdz        heno: thanks
   11:01 mdz        fabbione: next?
   11:02 fabbione   * ubuntu-cluster: no more testing done, hopefully is gold.
   11:02 fabbione   * X bug squashing: down to ~320 bugs. Don't trust LP bug count. Next is to check one evdev problem that is unclear if it is due to new upstream or user configs mess up. Usual stuff like triaging, bug fixing on going.
   11:02 fabbione   * last week: X bugs. Started training zakame to go full power on X.
   11:02 fabbione   * next week: holidays. Any volunteer to keep going on X??? NO??? ladies!!!!
   11:02 fabbione   * notes: due to some real life events, i am 99.999% sure i will not be in Paris.
   11:02 infinity   fabbione: What about the evdev build failure on some arches?
   11:02 mdz        yay for X bug volunteers ;-)
   11:02 fabbione   infinity: that's in the list
   11:03 infinity   fabbione: Kay, cool.  Thanks.
   11:03 mdz        fabbione: enjoy the holidays
   11:03 fabbione   mdz: don't open champagne now.. let see how long he will last :)
   11:03 fabbione   mdz: thanks
   11:03 mdz        doko_: next?
   11:03 doko_      - openoffice.org: new upload, nothing spectecular, -l10n still problematic on the buildd, no further progress with scim.
   11:03 doko_      - java updates: finished, sending status by email.
   11:03 doko_      - vnc4: updated, not yet uploaded. vnc (3.x) is in main, but still uses an oldish Xfree86 server for the build.
   11:03 doko_      - bug triage: not much progress since last update. assigned RC reports: seven, addressing the license issues today.
   11:03 doko_      - next week: Debconf (leaving tomorrow morning)
   11:03 sfllaw     Oh yeah, I'm going to that too.
   11:03 JaneW      enjoy mexico
   11:03 sfllaw     Leaving Saturday morning.
   11:03 mdz        doko_: did that ooo-build update represent new upstream code?  the changelog was a bit unclear
   11:03 doko_      fabbione: could need your input on vnc
   11:04 doko_      mdz: two patches
   11:04 fabbione   doko_: to use the new server?
   11:04 mdz        doko_: ok
   11:04 Keybuk     doko_: ooo is kinda not building/installable atm, no?
   11:04 doko_      fabbione: yes
   11:04 fabbione   doko_: well i am not sure if i will have the time.. but we can try
   11:05 infinity   Keybuk: It's building fine, except for the -l10n package, which I'll be looking into shortly.
   11:05 doko_      Keybuk: ooo does, ooo-l10n not, doesn't happen in a new chroot
   11:05 Keybuk     ahh
   11:05 Keybuk     I did notice that one of the help packages showed up in anastacia
   11:05 doko_      will have a look
   11:06 mdz        doko_: ok, thanks. see you at debconf
   11:06 mdz        dholbach: next?
   11:06 dholbach   BugSitutation: HUGDAY next week - Kernel stuff? After LinuxTag and icon stuff went down from 3000 -> 1600 unread desktop-bugs mails, more catching up to do
   11:06 dholbach   IconSituation: artwork deadline next week, new Human icons, look into xcursors to add, other artwork (wait on Jeff and kwii), possible tangerine split, hack on icon table on the weekend
   11:06 dholbach   this week (done): icons, bugs, lots of uvf exception processing
   11:06 dholbach   this week (todo): more bug fixing, gparted update(?)
   11:06 dholbach   next week: more bug fixing, some unresolved fixes (brltty, scrollkeeper), look into gnome-pilot, cd testing, motu unbuildable packages list(?)
   11:07 Kamion     dholbach: I'm pretty unsure about the gparted update at this stage
   11:07 dholbach   Kamion: I understand - I sent a mail to you and Kinnison this morning.
   11:07 Kamion     dholbach: the fixes that it might bring in seem counterbalanced by the risk of importing a new advanced partitioner three weeks before release
   11:07 dholbach   Kamion: I'm happy with either decision.
   11:07 Kamion     dholbach: yeah, read it
   11:07 dholbach   Ok.
   11:07 dholbach   I'll communicate that to Bart.
   11:07 mdz        dholbach: do you have the final artwork (minus beta markings) in hand for when the time comes?
   11:07 Kamion     can you look for any particular patches we might want, and see if they can reasonably be backported?
   11:08 Kamion     dholbach: give Bart my apologies as well, he did try and I know we started out on this a bit late
   11:08 dholbach   mdz: I have to ask Jeff, if there's not a different wallpaper for that.
   11:08 dholbach   Kamion: I can do that.
   11:08 mdz        dholbach: gnome-pilot seems like a mess; so many bug reports and few people with relevant hardware
   11:08 dholbach   mdz: there was a discussion about different gdm circle of friends as well - I'll phone him about that all.
   11:08 mdz        dholbach: do we really want it in main for dapper?
   11:09 dholbach   I got in touch with upstream who provided me with a tarball - unfortunately it didn't build
   11:09 dholbach   mdz: that depends, if we can rip out the functionality out of evolution - seb128?
   11:09 Keybuk     gnome-pilot is fundamentally broken :)
   11:09 seb128     some people use it
   11:09 mdz        some people try ;-)
   11:10 seb128     I'm not that comfortable with dropping it now
   11:10 dholbach   I don't have necessary hardware as well, I was just glad that I got in contact with upstream people.
   11:10 mdz        does anyone here use it?
   11:10 mdz        apparently not ;-)
   11:10 dholbach   Hum...
   11:10 seb128     hehe
   11:10 sladen     no.  pilot-xfer and jpilot when I used to...
   11:10 mdz        seb128: ok, if you think we're safer keeping it
   11:10 Keybuk     I've lost every pilot I've ever owned
   11:11 Keybuk     if we didn't have gnome-pilot, people wouldn't nag me that the /dev/pilot symlink doesn't work :)
   11:11 mdz        I worry for jbailey if someone needs support with it ;-)
   11:11 seb128     mdz: I'm not happy with the software itself, but I think some people use it and we have no better alternative to ship atm
   11:11 sladen     Keybuk: Bug Between Keyboard and Screen.
   11:11 dholbach   Seems like we do the update for Edgy. :-/
   11:11 seb128     mdz: speaking about support, do you think we can drop "disks-admin" now?
   11:12 ogra       whee, that'd be great to drop
   11:12 mdz        seb128: it's broken?
   11:12 seb128     mdz: it doesn't do anything useful and is misleading in the way it has buttons supposed to be useful
   11:12 mdz        seb128: ok, fine with me
   11:12 seb128     like you can change the mointpoint for a partition but it's not change fstab
   11:13 dholbach   grrr g-s-t grrr
   11:13 seb128     s/change/changing
   11:13 mdz        dholbach: want to rewrite it for edgy? ;-)
   11:13 Mithrandir seb128: it's useful for the live cd.
   11:13 ogra       does it still open nautilus with root privileges through the browse button ?
   11:13 seb128     and layout get messed with some locales, and we have several bug saying it doesn't list the partition correctly, etc
   11:13 dholbach   mdz: I'd love to work on that with mvo and seb128.
   11:13 seb128     ogra: no, that is fixed, but still...
   11:13 seb128     Mithrandir: how so?
   11:13 ogra       yep
   11:14 pitti      mdz: we should rather consider making our Google SoC 2005 bounty  better and integrating it
   11:14 pitti      (pysdm)
   11:14 mdz        dholbach: what artwork are you waiting on?
   11:14 Mithrandir seb128: people use it to mount their hard drive.
   11:14 seb128     Mithrandir: starting it on my box display a bunch of notify bubble saying some /tmp mounts have low space
   11:14 Mithrandir pitti: it's slightly too late to do anything about SoC 2005, isn't it?
   11:14 mdz        dholbach: I thought the current Ubuntu stuff was final, modulo the beta text (which you added, right?)
   11:14 ogra       hehe
   11:14 dholbach   mdz: new icons (more sizes), possible wallpaper/gdm stuff, xcursors I have, not easy to integrate :/
   11:14 seb128     Mithrandir: should the liveCD mount detected partitions by default?
   11:14 pitti      Mithrandir: I don't understand?
   11:14 ogra       pitti, we have 2006 ;)
   11:14 dholbach   mdz: I hope it is that way, I can strip that stuff off easily.
   11:14 Mithrandir pitti: oh, sorry, I misread.
   11:14 imbrandon  SoC 2006
   11:14 dholbach   mdz: I'll have to ask Jeff.
   11:15 Mithrandir seb128: so some people argue.  There's also an UDU spec for that.
   11:15 pitti      ogra: so what, the package is there, and the author, too; the package works fine in principle, it could just use some UI polish
   11:15 iwj        Are we nearly done here ?  My laptop is about to run out of juice ...
   11:15 ogra       pitti, ah, sorry
   === ealden [n=ealden@203.177.231.80] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:15 mdz        iwj: yes, we are nearly done here. why are you on battery?
   11:15 ogra       pitti, i thought you proposed a 2006 bounty
   11:15 iwj        mdz: To avoid having to have breakfast at 0830 :-).
   11:15 mdz        dholbach: from kwii, you need the final usplash image?
   11:15 pitti      no, I'm proposing to make use of our finished ounes :)
   11:16 dholbach   mdz: Yes, that's what Riddell told me.
   11:16 mdz        dholbach: I think I have that for you (the ubuntu one)
   11:16 dholbach   mdz: ok cool.
   11:16 mdz        ok
   11:16 mdz        dholbach: thanks
   11:16 Kamion     seb128: it's problematic due to stuff breaking if it automounts hibernated filesystems
   11:16 mdz        I think we will need to extend this meeting officially to ~90 minutes in the future; there are just too many of us
   11:16 Kamion     seb128: it should mount Windows partitions, but anything else is painful
   11:17 mdz        and everyone should get a few minutes if needed
   11:17 Kamion     was nice while it lasted (60 minutes)
   11:17 mdz        we're always rushing toward the end
   11:17 JaneW      mdz: agreed
   11:17 mdz        any urgent business to discuss?
   11:17 seb128     if we do that please move the 4am one early :)
   11:17 Kamion     but since we can manifestly get it done in less, we should be fascist about keeping it to time again
   11:18 Riddell    are syncs from debian being processed by ubuntu-archive?
   11:18 Kamion     Riddell: yes
   11:18 infinity   Riddell: Yes.
   11:18 mvo        seb128++
   11:18 mdz        Kamion: I think with the current team we get an average of 3 minutes apiece, which doesn't seem to be enough
   11:18 Kamion     not necessarily in FIFO order, but they're being processed
   11:18 Kamion     mdz: I agree
   11:18 Riddell    great, I'll wait patiently then
   11:18 mdz        at any rate, we're done for today; adjourned
   11:18 mdz        thanks all

</pre>
