{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ''ACTION:'' Daviey set priority on s-cycle BPs
** ''ACTION:'' Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic
* Saucy Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-saucy/group/topic-saucy-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 02 Jul at 16:03 &mdash; 16:47 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-07-02-16.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20130625 doesn't exist. ACTION: arosales to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase for meeting of 25 June
** Daviey set priority on s-cycle BPs, and Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic. Daviey believes that priorities are all good now. He will check that they are all on the status tracker, but we can mark this item done.

==== Saucy Development ====
The discussion about "Saucy Development" started at 16:08.

* '''Release Tracking Bug Tasks''' (16:08)

** Bugs being tracked were discussed and assigned as needed. Notable bugs:
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nagios-plugins/+bug/1031680 - rbasak will take to the mailing list
* '''Blueprints''' (16:22)
** arosales will file a bug to have the trend line updated.
** MariaDB/Percona: zul says that he hasn't heard anything. Daviey will reach out to them this week. ''ACTION:'' Daviey to speak to Percona about Saucy inclusion

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:33.
* Linaro Connect is in Dublin next week.
* An Openstack 3rd birthday event is in London on the 19th.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)" started at 16:34.

* plars reported that the server images were having problems on the day of the meeting, and that the release team are looking into it.''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1196981

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)" started at 16:35.

* smb noted that kernel 3.10 is now available in Saucy.
* jamespage has fixed openvswitch. He will work on iscsi-target next: https://launchpad.net/bugs/1195607

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)" started at 16:41.

* No updates.
* Daviey asked about mongodb status. rbasak reported that it is still on his TODO list.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:42.

* rbasak suggested that with the problems with chairs not completing post-meeting procedures, perhaps they should remain the chair, without rotation, until post-meeting procedures are completed, as an incentive to get things done. rbasak proposed that this start with him. Nobody had any comments.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:46.

The next meeting will be on Tuesday, 9 July 2013 at 1600 UTC. yolanda will chair.

=== Vote results ===

* None

=== Action items ===

* arosales to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase for meeting of 25 June
* Daviey to speak to Percona about Saucy inclusion

=== Action items, by person ===

* arosales
** arosales to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase for meeting of 25 June
* Daviey
** Daviey to speak to Percona about Saucy inclusion

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rbasak (91)
* Daviey (59)
* jamespage (33)
* arosales (11)
* ubottu (10)
* meetingology (5)
* plars (4)
* zul (3)
* xnox (3)
* roaksoax (3)
* smb (2)
* yolanda (1)
* utlemming (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:03 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul  2 16:03:09 2013 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03 <meetingology> 

 16:03 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:03 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <arosales> Daviey set priority on s-cycle BPs

 16:03 <arosales> Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic

 16:04 <rbasak> I don't see last week's meeting logs

 16:04 <arosales> rbasak, I just updated the wiki page with those two actions

 16:05 <rbasak> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20130625 doesn't exist.

 16:05 <Daviey> arosales: Broadsided me :-)

 16:05 <rbasak> I'll look at the IRC logs.

 16:05 <Daviey> I believe the priorities are all good NOW.. I need to double check they are all on the status tracker.

 16:05 <arosales> rbasak, yes sorry I didn't add that there

 16:05 <Daviey> Mark it done, will double check following this.

 16:05 <arosales> the moin logs are at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-06-25-16.00.moin.txt

 16:05 <arosales> rbasak, I'll get those added to the wiki

 16:06 <rbasak> Thanks

 16:06 <rbasak> #action arosales to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase for meeting of 25 June

 16:06 * meetingology arosales to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase for meeting of 25 June

 16:07 <rbasak> Sorry I'm just catching up.

 16:07 <arosales> rbasak, thank you

 16:07 <rbasak> Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic

 16:07 <rbasak> Did you just cover that?

 16:08 <Daviey> Yes

 16:08 <rbasak> OK

 16:08 <rbasak> #topic Saucy Development

 16:08 <rbasak> #subtopic Release Tracking Bug Tasks

 16:08 <rbasak> #link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:09 <rbasak> Shall I go through these?

 16:09 <Daviey> rbasak: Please do

 16:09 <rbasak> Would it be an idea to make sure someone is assigned to each of them?

 16:09 <rbasak> bug 1124384

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1124384 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Saucy) "Configuration reload clears event that others jobs may be waiting on" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1124384

 16:10 <rbasak> utlemming: any comment? Do you want to follow that through?

 16:10 <rbasak> bug 1196921

 16:10 <ubottu> bug 1196921 in vim (Ubuntu Saucy) "updating packages to lua5.2 in main" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1196921

 16:10 <rbasak> Nobody is assigned at the moment. Any volunteers?

 16:11 <Daviey> Looks like 1124384 has become a hard problem, but smoser and utlemming are tracking it.  Not worried it will be resolved

 16:11 <Daviey> 1196921 looks like a transition that could be painful.. As it's not a blocking package, i think we can leave it for this week

 16:11 <rbasak> bug 1183634

 16:11 <ubottu> bug 1183634 in cheetah (Ubuntu Saucy) "cheetah pkg does not depend on markdown, but egg requires.txt does" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1183634

 16:12 <rbasak> Looks like it's waiting on the MIR team.

 16:12 <Daviey> adam_g is tracking that

 16:12 <rbasak> bug 1170393

 16:12 <ubottu> bug 1170393 in quantum (Ubuntu Saucy) "Quantum services should be respawned by upstart if necessary" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1170393

 16:12 <Daviey> I think 1183634 needs an upload to make it show on c-m list

 16:13 <Daviey> jamespage: what am i looking at on that bug?  Shows Won't Fix?

 16:13 <jamespage> I'll take that quantum one

 16:14 <rbasak> May I assign it, so that we remember for next week?

 16:14 <Daviey> jamespage: Why does the recent change show Won't Fix?

 16:14 <jamespage> not a clue - rbasak - I've already done that

 16:14 * jamespage shrugs

 16:14 <rbasak> Thanks!

 16:15 <Daviey> Ah, i see.. the development series was thrown away, with a dedicated saucy task

 16:15 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apache2/+bug/1188069 is security and the security team are tracking it.

 16:15 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1188069 in apache2 (Ubuntu Saucy) "apache2 mod_rewrite CVE 2013-1862" [Low,Confirmed]

 16:15 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libasm4-java/+bug/1196979

 16:15 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1196979 in ow-util-ant-tasks (Ubuntu Saucy) "[MIR] libasm4-java (b-d of jarjar)" [Undecided,New]

 16:15 <jamespage> anyone want to help with something java-ish

 16:15 <jamespage> ?

 16:15 <jamespage> ^^

 16:15 <jamespage> two packages to transition to asm4 in main

 16:15 <jamespage> so we can get rid of asm3

 16:16 <Daviey> jamespage: Happen to know why jarjar is in main?

 16:16 <jamespage> cglib

 16:16 <jamespage> which is one of the things that needs to be transitioned

 16:16 <jamespage> I suspect its actually broken right now

 16:16 <jamespage> as asm upstream don't version their package namespaces and they are not backwards compat

 16:16 <Daviey> ugh!

 16:16 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nagios-plugins/+bug/1031680

 16:16 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1031680 in nagios-plugins (Ubuntu Raring) "check_apt always report 0 critical updates" [High,Triaged]

 16:17 <Daviey> jamespage: Do you have capacity to triage that?

 16:17 <jamespage> nagios or asm4?

 16:17 <Daviey> (java one)

 16:17 <jamespage> yeah - sure

 16:17 <Daviey> ta

 16:17 <jamespage> (I discussed with doko earlier in -devel anyways)

 16:18 <rbasak> I've been looking at this one. It's a complex issue and there's a workaround (use a different, much simpler plugin). I'm not sure it can be fixed in _this package_ for Saucy without introducing a horrible delta.

 16:18 <Daviey> rsome good triage there

 16:18 <rbasak> xnox: any comment on that? You targetted it for Saucy.

 16:18 <Daviey> rbasak: seems xnox raised it with upstream?

 16:18 <rbasak> I raised it.

 16:19 <Daviey> Oh sorry.

 16:19 <rbasak> The only comment is that we need to provide input since upstream need help. But the only sane way of fixing it is to ditch the plugin and use update-notifier directly, for Ubuntu.

 16:19 <Daviey> rbasak: lets wait to see if upstream respond?

 16:19 <rbasak> They sort of have.

 16:19 <xnox> rbasak: looking... trying to remember.

 16:19 <rbasak> " I'm less keen on having

 16:19 <rbasak> the behaviour depend on whether or not some tool is available, though; as

 16:20 <rbasak> that's problematic with respect to maintenance and support. And I guess

 16:20 <rbasak> update-notifier is a bit too Ubuntu-ish to add a hard dependency on

 16:20 <rbasak> apt-check ...

 16:20 <rbasak> Sorry I thought that'd paste on one line.

 16:20 <Daviey> So do we simply recommend using the other tool?

 16:20 <rbasak> IMHO, yes.

 16:20 <Daviey> WFM

 16:20 <rbasak> The alternative isn't packaged, though.

 16:20 <Daviey> if it's a drop in feature compatible

 16:20 <rbasak> It's not.

 16:20 <Daviey> Pah

 16:20 <rbasak> But it'll do for 99% of use cases IMHO.

 16:21 <rbasak> The existing plugin's interface is very much based on the way it works. It's not really a clean interface.

 16:21 <rbasak> How about I take this to the ML?

 16:21 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virtinst/+bug/1192290

 16:21 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1192290 in virtinst (Ubuntu Saucy) "virt-install cannot install Raring" [Undecided,Confirmed]

 16:22 <Daviey> mdeslaur seems to be working on it

 16:22 <rbasak> OK that's all the bugs on that report for us.

 16:22 <Daviey> \o/

 16:22 <rbasak> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:22 <rbasak> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-saucy/group/topic-saucy-servercloud-overview.html

 16:23 <rbasak> That link appears to be broken.

 16:23 <jamespage> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html

 16:23 <rbasak> Thanks!

 16:23 <rbasak> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html

 16:23 <rbasak> I'll amend the agenda for next time.

 16:24 <Daviey> Ta

 16:24 <xnox> rbasak: yeah, i only mangled bug statuses to have this bug bubble up for saucy cycle. Ideally it should be resolved one way or the other, but could be regretfully postponed.

 16:24 <Daviey> arosales: Are you able to adjust the trend line?

 16:24 <arosales> Daviey, unfortunately no

 16:24 <arosales> Daviey, a bug report should get the right folks looking at it though

 16:25 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/launchpad-work-items-tracker/+filebug

 16:25 <rbasak> xnox: OK, thanks. I'll email the ML with what I think we should do and copy you in.

 16:25 <Daviey> utlemming / ivoks: What is servercloud-s-webscale MIR's blocked on?

 16:25 <jamespage> that topic is stilling missing bp's btw

 16:25 <xnox> rbasak: cool =) back in the day I used to do a lot of nagios/check_mk large scale monitoring.... =)

 16:26 <jamespage> Daviey, the MIR's are dependent on the other work items happening first

 16:26 <Daviey> jamespage: Will sweep up after this, but we  have enough to track development of what is there for now

 16:26 <arosales> jamespage, I think Daviey has an action out to follow up on missing BPs

 16:26 <Daviey> jamespage: OIC

 16:26 <utlemming> Daviey: er, I am not sure...I'll look into that today. I've been out on vacation

 16:27 <Daviey> jamespage: Would you be able to work with zul to help with the direction of servercloud-s-openstack-hypervisor ?

 16:27 <jamespage> Daviey, can do

 16:27 <Daviey> jamespage: I suspect you are well placed to have some good guidance, based on last Friday

 16:27 <jamespage> ack

 16:28 <rbasak> Any more on Blueprints?

 16:28 <Daviey> roaksoax: What is our zeromq story right now?

 16:28 <Daviey> (servercloud-s-openstack-charms-ha-v2)

 16:28 <roaksoax> Daviey: have not look at it yet (been busy with charms mainly)

 16:28 <Daviey> ok

 16:29 <Daviey> Any more news on MariaDB/Percona ?

 16:29 <roaksoax> i'll have more information next week

 16:29 <zul> Daviey:  they have gone silent

 16:29 <Daviey> I saw the ITP in Debian for xtrabackup

 16:29 <roaksoax> zul: didn't jcastro mentioned they were going to provide their own charm too?

 16:29 <Daviey> Okay, i'll reach out to them this week.

 16:29 <zul> roaksoax:  they did but i havent heard anything else

 16:30 * Daviey Daviey to speak to Percona about Saucy inclusion

 16:30 <Daviey> #ACTION Daviey to speak to Percona about Saucy inclusion

 16:30 * meetingology Daviey to speak to Percona about Saucy inclusion

 16:30 <rbasak> I'd really like to see the alternatives in this cycle. Otherwise we'll end up not even being able to consider doing anything but supporting mysql for another LTS cycle.

 16:31 <Daviey> jamespage: Any news on juju-core snapshot in saucy ?

 16:31 <Daviey> rbasak: right

 16:31 <jamespage> Daviey, the juju-core team hit some issues end of last week

 16:31 <jamespage> should be resolved ~2 days ish

 16:32 <Daviey> super

 16:32 <Daviey> The rest looks ok, thanks.

 16:33 <rbasak> Thanks Daviey!

 16:33 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:33 <rbasak> Linaro Connect is in Dublin next week.

 16:33 <rbasak> (I'll be there)

 16:33 <rbasak> Any other upcoming events?

 16:33 <Daviey> Hmm

 16:34 <Daviey> 19th London, Openstack Meetup

 16:34 <Daviey> Openstack's 3rd birthday event

 16:34 <Daviey> EOF

 16:34 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)

 16:34 <rbasak> plars: hello!

 16:34 <plars> Hi

 16:34 <zul> it seems i am in the wrong part of the world for events

 16:34 <plars> Not much to report, except that the server images had some problems today

 16:34 <plars> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1196981

 16:34 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1196981 in Ubuntu CD Images "Saucy server installations fail due to dependancy issues on python-newt " [Undecided,Fix released]

 16:35 <plars> I believe the release team is looking into it

 16:35 <rbasak> Thanks plars! Does anyone have any questions for plars?

 16:35 <rbasak> OK.

 16:35 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:35 <smb> Hi

 16:35 <smb> Not much to report. Currently working on a pre-release-pre-debian version of xen 4.3 to have the pieces together when the release happens. Any issues from server after kernel v3.10 hit the block?

 16:36 <rbasak> I still appear to be using a 3.9 based cloud image as of today.

 16:36 <rbasak> Any questions for smb?

 16:36 <Daviey> jamespage fixed openvswitch, iscisitarget is still broke

 16:37 <jamespage> next on my list

 16:37 <Daviey> jamespage: is there a bug for iscsi-target?

 16:37 <jamespage> yes

 16:37 <rbasak> Should we target that for Saucy?

 16:37 <jamespage> bug 1195607

 16:37 <ubottu> bug 1195607 in iscsitarget (Ubuntu Saucy) "iscsitarget-dkms broken since kernel 3.10.0" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1195607

 16:37 <jamespage> it already is

 16:37 <Daviey> Thanks

 16:37 * jamespage wonders about the release bugs list again

 16:37 <rbasak> It didn't come up on the tracking page though?

 16:38 <Daviey> it's not tagged

 16:38 <Daviey> Tags are useless. :-)

 16:38 <jamespage> it should not need to be tagged

 16:38 <jamespage> it has a release task and its subbed by ubuntu-server

 16:38 <rbasak> Other bugs in the report are not tagged.

 16:38 <jamespage> that should be sufficient IMHO

 16:39 <rbasak> It dosen't look like it's subbed by ubuntu-server to me.

 16:39 <rbasak> It doesn't appear in the "May be notified" list

 16:40 <rbasak> Can an ~ubuntu-server admin fix that please?

 16:41 <rbasak> Daviey? jamespage?

 16:41 <jamespage> ack

 16:41 <rbasak> Thanks!

 16:41 <rbasak> (and to smb!)

 16:41 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:41 <rbasak> Nothing new to report. Any questions for me?

 16:41 <Daviey> rbasak: Any news on mongo?

 16:42 <rbasak> I've not looked at it, sorry.

 16:42 <Daviey> no problem

 16:42 <Daviey> EOF

 16:42 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion

 16:43 <rbasak> Is there anything anybody wants to bring up?

 16:43 <rbasak> I do, actually, related to the next item.

 16:44 <jamespage> rbasak, congrats btw

 16:44 <rbasak> I have a proposal that I hope is constructive. Instead of rotating the chair weekly, how about we rotate the chair once the chair completes the post-meeting procedure?

 16:44 <rbasak> Thanks jamespage!

 16:44 <jamespage> for those that don't know rbasak is now a MOTU and member of ubuntu-server-dev

 16:45 <yolanda> congrats

 16:45 <Daviey> +1!

 16:45 <rbasak> Thanks :)

 16:46 <rbasak> If we do that, then the previous chair will have his notes, and there won't be a delay at the start with confusion over who's chairing. And it's an incentive to get it done :)

 16:46 <rbasak> I propose it starts with me, so I might as well volunteer to chair next week unless I get it done.

 16:46 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:47 <rbasak> The next meeting will be on 9 July at 1600 UTC as usual. I may be absent as I'll be at Linaro Connect. So I hope I'll get it done and yolanda will chair :)

 16:47 <rbasak> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
