{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** smoser review coreycb MP for bug 1347567
** smb look at / update bug 1355891 (aka bug 1350522) 
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* coreycbs MP reviewed by zul
* Bug#1355891 marked as a duplicate

===== Utopic Development =====

* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
* ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
* ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server

====== Release Bugs ======

* ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1360471
** ''ACTION:'' gaughen bug utlemming about bug 1360471
* ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1361357
* ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1359421

===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====

Nothing to report. 

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) =====

Some discussion of virtio+bcache

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

Nothing to report. 

===== Meeting Actions =====

* ''ACTION:'' gaughen bug utlemming about bug 1360471

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 2nd at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <gnuoy> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug 26 16:00:39 2014 UTC.  The chair is gnuoy. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <matsubara> o/
[16:00] <gnuoy> Welcome all to the Ubuntu Server Team Meeting. Please shout if I stray from the correct path as this is my first time chairing one of these.
[16:00] <gnuoy> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:00] <gaughen> gnuoy, just so you know, matsubara holds the world record for fastest mtg.
[16:00] <gnuoy> smoser to review coreycb mp for https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openstack-trove/+bug/1347567
[16:00] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1347567 in openstack-trove (Ubuntu Utopic) "trove unit tests disabled" [High,In progress]
[16:01] <gnuoy> Looks like zul reviewed
[16:01] <coreycb> o/
[16:01] <zul> indeed
[16:01] <gnuoy> bug 1355891 (aka bug 1350522)  still needs looking at I think
[16:01] <smoser> thank you zul
[16:01] <ubottu> bug 1355891 in linux (Ubuntu) "crash on utopic ec2 instance" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1355891
[16:01] <ubottu> bug 1350522 in linux (Ubuntu Utopic) "EC2 kernel crash due to vmalloc" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1350522
[16:01] <gnuoy> smoser ^ ?
[16:01] <smb> I should have marked that as duplicate
[16:02] <smb> Pretty sure it is the same as bug 1350522
[16:02] <ubottu> bug 1350522 in linux (Ubuntu Utopic) "EC2 kernel crash due to vmalloc" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1350522
[16:02] <gnuoy> ok, I'll leave it with you
[16:02] <gnuoy> #topic Utopic Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Utopic Development
[16:02] <gnuoy> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
[16:02] <gnuoy> Thursday was FeatureFreeze
[16:02] <smb> smoser, btw, I got a work-around patch applied to utopic today. So at least pv guests should work until I figure out the real fix
[16:03] <smoser> k.
[16:04] <gnuoy> Anyone got anythin else to add with regard to the release schedule before we look at release bugs?
[16:04] <gnuoy> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:04] <gnuoy> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:04] <gnuoy> Looks like these are new:
[16:04] <gnuoy> #link http://launchpad.net/bugs/1360471
[16:04] <gnuoy> #link http://launchpad.net/bugs/1361357
[16:04] <gnuoy> #link http://launchpad.net/bugs/1359421
[16:04] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1360471 in walinuxagent (Ubuntu Utopic) "update walinuxagent to 2.0.7" [Medium,Confirmed]
[16:04] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1361357 in nova (Ubuntu Utopic) "metadata service performance regression ~100x" [Medium,Confirmed]
[16:04] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1359421 in librtas (Ubuntu Utopic) "Update librtas for LE support" [Undecided,In progress]
[16:05] <kickinz1> o/
[16:05] <gnuoy> Hmm, I wonder if we lost some config on the way which has contributed to/caused 1361357
[16:05] <gnuoy> s/some config/some network config on serverstack/
[16:05] <smoser> gnuoy, after i went down a rathole... i suspected network.
[16:06] <gnuoy> smoser, mtu settings had been tweaked and they didn't persist after a reboot
[16:06] <gnuoy> other settings could have gone I guess
[16:06] <smoser> i'd really hope that isnt it.
[16:07] <smoser> we can talk more outside this meeting.
[16:07] <gnuoy> ack
[16:07] <smoser> and i will make sure to bother you
[16:07] <gnuoy> thanks!
[16:08] <gnuoy> 1360471 seems unloved. What do we normally do there?
[16:08] <hallyn> bug 1360471
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1360471 in walinuxagent (Ubuntu Utopic) "update walinuxagent to 2.0.7" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1360471
[16:08]  * gaughen opens bug
[16:08]  * gaughen waits for system
[16:09] <gaughen> smoser, would we need to get an FFE for this package?
[16:10] <smoser> we would normally bother utlemming on that. and let him do what he needs to do.
[16:10] <gaughen> this package = walinuxagent
[16:10] <smoser> i'll bother him
[16:10] <gaughen> gnuoy, put me down for bugging utlemming
[16:10] <zul> yeah i have something to add
[16:10] <gnuoy> #action gaughen bug utlemming about bug 1360471
[16:10] <meetingology> ACTION: gaughen bug utlemming about bug 1360471
[16:10] <ubottu> bug 1360471 in walinuxagent (Ubuntu Utopic) "update walinuxagent to 2.0.7" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1360471
[16:10] <zul> gnuoy: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1361737
[16:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1361737 in Ubuntu "[ffe] New dependency for openstack python-oslo.utils" [High,New]
[16:11]  * utlemming shows up late
[16:12] <gnuoy> zul, ok, looks like package update o'clock
[16:12] <zul> gaughen:  also an archive admin havent reviewed python-lxc or openstack-granite either
[16:13] <gnuoy> Is the normal form here to twiddle thumbs until someone leaps up and grabs the bug?
[16:14] <gaughen> zul, do you have the bug #s for those handy? else I'll find them and go looking for an admin
[16:14] <zul> gaughen:  nope it was done before the FF though
[16:17] <gnuoy> #action gaughen find archive admin to  review  python-lxc and openstack-granite
[16:17] <meetingology> ACTION: gaughen find archive admin to  review  python-lxc and openstack-granite
[16:17] <gnuoy> I'm going to move onwards and upwards
[16:17] <gnuoy> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:17] <gnuoy> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
[16:17] <gnuoy> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server
[16:18] <gaughen> I think blueprints need some love
[16:18] <gaughen> although I do think smoser's are current
[16:19] <gaughen> gnuoy, that's all I have to say. move along.
[16:19]  * smoser looks
[16:19] <gnuoy> will do
[16:19] <gnuoy> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:19] <caribou> gnuoy: everything is fine from my end, thanks
[16:19] <gnuoy> caribou, ta
[16:20] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:20] <psivaa> no update is from us this week :)
[16:20] <gnuoy> psivaa, ta
[16:20] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
[16:20] <smb> I am trying to not go completely bonkers while reading xen/x86 bootup code mangling pagetables around. Not sure how successful. :-P Is there anything else I/we should be aware or have a look at?
[16:21] <kickinz1> what is the current status of virtio+bcache?
[16:21] <arges> kickinz1: hey
[16:21] <arges> kickinz1: i've found the patch that causes the regression. I also created a test patch that I'm asking for some review. I'll probably post that on the upstream ML soon
[16:22] <kickinz1> arges: cool, thanks.
[16:22] <gnuoy> smb, not that I know of, anyone else ?
[16:23] <arges> kickinz1: are there any other kernel issues you've found in your bcache testing? If so please ping me
[16:24] <gnuoy> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:24] <kickinz1> arges: not for now (hung tasks messages + virtio), I'll ping you if some new.
[16:25] <gnuoy> This one confuses me a little. What are we trying to achieve with this section? Is it making people aware of events they might like to attend?
[16:25] <gnuoy> or "Please say this when you're there?"
[16:25] <rharper> gnuoy: I always assumed it was to mention up coming events that the team was involved in ...
[16:25] <gnuoy> to what end?
[16:26] <rharper> other folks might be going to those as well and might meet up?
[16:26] <gnuoy> kk
[16:26] <rharper> gnuoy: dunno, I'm too noob here to know, smoser might
[16:26] <gnuoy> I shall take silence to mean everyone is staying home
[16:26] <gnuoy> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:27] <gnuoy> Anything anyone wants to openly discuss?
[16:28] <gnuoy> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:28] <gnuoy> next meeting will be : Tue Sept 2 16:00:00 UTC 2014
[16:28] <smoser> i think gnuoy 's understanding of the intent of "upcoming events" was correct.
[16:28] <smoser> basically discuss upcoming "cloud" like events.
[16:28] <smoser> that you might want to attend.
[16:28] <gnuoy> ack, thanks
[16:28] <smoser> or that people are attending. or
[16:29] <smoser> or someone might say "Oh, i can meet *the* rharper if I go to cloudwhizbangconf in WrigleyVille?  I'm so there!"
[16:29] <gnuoy> I AM so there!
[16:29] <gnuoy> (if he brings homebrew)
[16:29] <gnuoy> #endmeeting
</pre>
