{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon May 15th 2017 16:30 UTC
* '''End''': 16:54 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Tyler Hicks (tyhicks)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson
* ratliff

=== Not present ===
* none

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** None
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** finish overlayfs/apparmor/snaps investigation
** snappy-debug work
*** fix to work with journald
*** update for snapd 2.25/2.26
** gnome3/wayland/plasma interfaces
** snappy forum discussions and PR reviews
** miscellaneous snappy policy updates PR
** embargoed issue
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** git updates
** kde4libs updates
** libytnef updates
** gather qemu test results and then publish updates
*** cpaelzer is running tests
** additional security updates as time allows
** sbeattie
** weekly role: community
** openjdk-7 updates to test and publish
** kernel USNs
*** figure out precise/esm publishing
** additional security updates as time allows
** !AppArmor upstream issues
** tyhicks
** weekly role: bug triage
** finish seccomp v5 patch set
** start reviewing/using fscrypto userspace
** roadmap sprint followups
** jjohansen
** finish 4.11 !AppArmor port
*** memory corruption (crashing) issue is left to solve
** !AppArmor kernel patch upstreaming
*** need someone to review the upstream securityfs patch
*** LSM backlog to ensure that there are no proposed changes that affect upstreaming
*** IMA changes to fs/namespace.c are a possibility
*** fixing typesplitting so that unix mediation can go up
** virt-aa helper upstreaming thread
** sarnold
** weekly role: cve triage
** xdelta3 mir
** shadow regression (LP: #bug:1690820)
** !AppArmor patch review to support jjohansen's upstreaming work
** pick up other MIRs
** !ChrisCoulson
** thunderbird updates
*** upstream has not yet cut the release
** re-automate the uploading of firefox debug symbols
** internal issue
** work on the Firefox start page
*** move away start.ubuntu.com
*** provide Ubuntu-specific design once we hear back
** ratliff
** weekly role: happy place
** internal tasks
** technical content
*** participating in webinar
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** The Ubuntu Security Team has revived their twitter account. Follow us @ubuntu_sec!

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-05-15-16.30.moin.txt
