{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
** Active work that may need wider communication
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (tbd)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
* Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:00.

No actions from previous meeting to discuss.

==== Yakkety Development ====
The discussion about "Yakkety Development" started at 16:01.

nacc working on php cleanup. 

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:03)

Main discussion deferred to "Assigned merges/bugwork" section of agenda

** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:04.

caribou has been working on corosync, clamav & kexec-tools among other things.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team" started at 16:05.

QA person starting at beginning of July

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:06

Nothing was raised.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:07.

None

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:08.

None

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:08.

teward reported that a security fix was released last week for nginx and has been uploaded to Yakkety. However, merge is on hold because Debian indicating they're still 'testing' dynamic module support which may indicate that it's not entirely stable yet. teward will keep an eye on that, but that todo on the blueprint will remain BLOCKED or TODO until it looks OK

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:10.

next meeting will be in a week date 14th of june, same time

==== Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)" started at 16:10.

- We now regularly track progress on community important bugs here. See the full log for details.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <gnuoy> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun  7 16:00:08 2016 UTC.  The chair is gnuoy. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <gnuoy> Thanks to cpaelzer for covering for me last week. Let's get cracking...
[16:00] <jgrimm> o/
[16:00] <nacc> o/
[16:00] <cpaelzer> o/ , your welcome
[16:00] <gnuoy> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:00] <gnuoy> I see no actions from the lastn meeting, so onwards and upwards unless anyone knows any different?
[16:00] <caribou> o/
[16:00] <cpaelzer> gnuoy: I forgot to put me at the end of the list - move me with you afterwards as "payment" :-)
[16:01] <rbasak> o/
[16:01] <gnuoy> cpaelzer, wil do!
[16:01] <gnuoy> #topic Yakkety Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Yakkety Development
[16:01] <gnuoy> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
[16:01] <gnuoy> Anyone got anything to highlight vis-Ã -vis Yakkety Development?
[16:02] <jgrimm> ah, nacc any movement on php cleanup?
[16:02] <nacc> jgrimm: still working on it, refocusing on that this week
[16:02] <jgrimm> great! steve brought that up to me in 1x1 yesterday
[16:02] <nacc> got a few packages fixed in debian, but then the debian maintainers also said they'd rather delete a package then get an NMU fix
[16:03] <nacc> so... we'll see where that goes
[16:03] <jgrimm> no worries, just wanted to poke it forward a bit
[16:03] <gnuoy> thanks nacc, jgrimm
[16:03] <nacc> jgrimm: ack
[16:03] <gnuoy> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:03] <gnuoy> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:03] <gnuoy> I believe rbasak will go over current assigned bugs at the end, anything for now?
[16:04] <jgrimm> looks good
[16:04] <gnuoy> ta
[16:04] <gnuoy> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:04] <caribou> been working on a few merges :
[16:04] <caribou> corosync that turns out to be a sync
[16:05] <gnuoy> \o/
[16:05] <caribou> clamav & kexec-tools
[16:05] <jgrimm> nice
[16:05] <caribou> & a few sponsored uploads
[16:05] <gnuoy> thanks caribou
[16:05] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team
[16:05] <gnuoy> Not sure who to prod for this, jgrimm ?
[16:06] <jgrimm> gnuoy, I have a new QA person starting at beginning of July
[16:06] <jgrimm> so nothing else to report there
[16:06] <gnuoy> tip top!
[16:06] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:06] <smb> nothing new here
[16:06] <gnuoy> any q's for smb et al?
[16:07] <gnuoy> I shall take silence as consent to move on...
[16:07] <jgrimm> all good
[16:07] <gnuoy> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
[16:07] <gnuoy> Ok, moving on
[16:08] <gnuoy> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:08] <gnuoy> jgrimm: anything coming up?
[16:08] <jgrimm> no sir
[16:08] <gnuoy> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:08] <teward> o/ (late, sorry)
[16:08] <teward> situational awareness wrt nginx:
[16:08] <teward> security fix released last week, uploaded to Yakkety
[16:09] <teward> merge is on hold because I observed Debian indicating they're still 'testing' dynamic module support
[16:09] <teward> makes me think it's not entirely stable yet
[16:09] <teward> so i'll keep an eye on that, but that todo on the blueprint'll remain BLOCKED or TODO unâ€Žtil it looks OK
[16:09] <jgrimm> thanks teward! on top of things as always
[16:09] <gnuoy> would anyone like to get anything else off their chest?
[16:09] <cpaelzer> gnuoy: before you close, you might want to pass chair to rbasak for bug discussion
[16:10] <gnuoy> yep, one step ahead of you
[16:10] <cpaelzer> :-)
[16:10] <gnuoy> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:10] <gnuoy> next meeting will be in a week date 14th of june, same time
[16:10] <gnuoy> #topic Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)
[16:10] <gnuoy> #chair rbasak
[16:10] <meetingology> Current chairs: gnuoy rbasak
[16:10] <rbasak> Thankg gnuoy!
[16:10] <rbasak> Thanks!
[16:10] <gnuoy> my pleasure!
[16:10] <rbasak> Can I have status first please?
[16:10] <rbasak> cpaelzer: bug 1507681, bug 1495988
[16:11] <ubottu> bug 1507681 in psmisc (Ubuntu Precise) "killall with 65 arguments kills more than expected" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1507681
[16:11]  * jgrimm hangs head in shame
[16:11] <ubottu> bug 1495988 in apache2 (Ubuntu) "ProxyErrorOverride leads to slow 404 responses" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1495988
[16:11] <rbasak> jgrimm: bug 1397250
[16:11] <ubottu> bug 1397250 in libnss-ldap (Ubuntu) "SIGPIPE not caught in do_atfork_child()" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1397250
[16:11] <jgrimm> rbasak, no progress, please keep with me tho (as discussed, low priority)
[16:11] <cpaelzer> 1507681 waiting for sponsoring (as last week), 1495988 just subscribed sponsors a few minutes ago
[16:12] <rbasak> cpaelzer: sorry, I did say I'd review that. I will make a note.
[16:12] <rbasak> nacc: bug 1423498, bug 1524635, bug 1570472, bug 1553563, bug 1570923
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1423498 in squid3 (Ubuntu Trusty) "FTP upload causes squid hang" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1423498
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1524635 in haproxy (Ubuntu) "haproxy syslog configuration causes double logging" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1524635
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1570472 in puppet (Ubuntu) "Set systemd as default service provider" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1570472
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1553563 in bacula (Ubuntu) "bconsole to Bacula Director fails with authorization problem message" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1553563
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1570923 in bacula (Ubuntu Xenial) "bacula-dir won't start with "undefined symbol: mysql_init"" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1570923
[16:13] <rbasak> rharper: bug 1384503, bug 1457957, bug 1511735, bug 1491406
[16:13] <ubottu> bug 1384503 in rsync (Ubuntu Trusty) "rsync fails on large files with compression" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1384503
[16:13] <ubottu> bug 1457957 in puppet (Ubuntu Vivid) "puppet uses upstart for service status checks in vivid" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1457957
[16:13] <ubottu> bug 1511735 in libnl3 (Ubuntu Trusty) "libnl: fail to bind() netlink sockets" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1511735
[16:13] <ubottu> bug 1491406 in augeas (Ubuntu) "augeas-lenses-1.2.0 - NagiosCfg lens broken for /etc/nagios.cfg due to spaces" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1491406
[16:13] <rbasak> I don't see magicalChicken here so I'll ask him in #ubuntu-server after this meeting.
[16:13] <cpaelzer> rbasak: as I "only" wait for sponsoreing review - you may pass me another one - might find no time but better I know one if time suddenly shows up
[16:13] <rbasak> cpaelzer: that's a good point, thank you,.
[16:13] <nacc> rbasak: nothing on the bacula bugs (although they are moving to the top of my list today). 1524635 submitted a fix, but it didn't quite work (I believe i made a mistake, testing a fix now). I would think 1570472 and 1457957 are the same, possibly?
[16:14] <nacc> (the latter being assigned to rharper)
[16:14] <caribou> cpaelzer: 1495988 only have a task for the dev release. What series do you need to SRU to ?
[16:14] <cpaelzer> trusty
[16:14] <caribou> cpaelzer: ok, will take care of that
[16:14] <cpaelzer> caribou: +1 karma
[16:15] <nacc> rbasak: 1423498, waiting for user testing
[16:15] <rbasak> Thanks caribou!
[16:15] <cpaelzer> caribou: let me know if there is anything not as it should be
[16:15]  * rbasak is catching up on nacc's responses
[16:15] <caribou> cpaelzer: sure
[16:15] <nacc> rbasak: 1570472, gave feedback to sdeziel, waiting on a new patch to review
[16:16] <rbasak> nacc: OK so bug 1524635 is making progress, but I think you need a bug task for Trusty? Shall I create that?
[16:16] <ubottu> bug 1524635 in haproxy (Ubuntu) "haproxy syslog configuration causes double logging" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1524635
[16:17] <nacc> rbasak: yes, please (was going to ask for it once i had filled out the SRU template, as that's the order on the wiki page)
[16:17] <rharper> sorry, here now
[16:17] <rharper> rbasak: on the augeas bug, I'm working on a reproducer; should have that today with a suggestion from someone
[16:17] <rbasak> Ah, OK. I presume the SRU page has that order to prevent needless bug tasks, but I think for our team here it's fine to create them in advance if we reasonably think that an SRU will be needed.
[16:17] <nacc> rbasak: ack, will update my mental model :)
[16:18] <rharper> rbasak: for libnl3, that's all fixed released at this point; I don't think there is anything left to do in that bug.
[16:18] <jgrimm> \o/
[16:19] <rharper> rbasak: rsync, I don't know what else to do with it, we're stuck without a reproducable data, someone hits it but never shares their datafile;  I tried the simple Xenial rsync to Trusty but wasn't that trivial to hit (as we've said multiple times)
[16:19] <rharper> will poke at the puppet bug today as well;
[16:19] <rbasak> nacc: for bug 1423498, I think it's OK to mark it cleared for now. Please follow up if it makes any progress.
[16:19] <ubottu> bug 1423498 in squid3 (Ubuntu Trusty) "FTP upload causes squid hang" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1423498
[16:20] <nacc> rbasak: yep, agreed
[16:20] <nacc> rharper: you may want to look at 1570472, and your puppet bug may be a dupe
[16:21] <rharper> nacc: thanks for the heads up;
[16:21] <rharper> ISTR that someone else was looking at a similar issue before X released
[16:22] <rbasak> nacc: puppet dupes> yeah, seems likely. Please can you or rharper agree, dupe and assign to just one of you as necessary?
[16:22] <rharper> rbasak: ack
[16:22] <nacc> rbasak: ack
[16:22] <rharper> nacc: you're bug looks nicer (see debdiff attached) =)
[16:23] <nacc> rharper: i spent some time on my puppet bug this week, i can look at yours and decide
[16:23] <nacc> rharper: also true :)
[16:23] <rharper> cool
[16:23] <rharper> also sdeziel is on yours which helps move things along =)
[16:23] <nacc> yep
[16:24] <rbasak> OK so I'll mark rharper's 957 as cleared in my tracking spreadsheet, but please do mark the dupe in LP too. Thanks!
[16:24] <rharper> np
[16:24] <nacc> yep
[16:25] <rharper> rbasak: any other thoughts on the rsync bug ... I mean, we can only say so many times that we need a dataset that reproduces it to fully understand the fix and regression potential
[16:25] <rbasak> rharper: agreed but I'm still catching up, sorry. I'll get there in a moment.
[16:25] <rharper> rbasak: np
[16:25] <rbasak> nacc: I think I'm done with your progress updates - thank you.
[16:26] <nacc> rbasak: np, thanks -- feel free to add more bugs to my plate as you go
[16:26] <nacc> i may start a pad or something to help track my own status on them, fwiw
[16:26] <rbasak> I've got some new bugs to assign lined up. I'll cover them after I catch up on progress.
[16:26] <rbasak> Sorry this is taking a while - I'm juggling a ton of bug numbers :)
[16:28] <rbasak> rharper: OK so bug 1384503 next. I agree with you. I would update the bug description with a "[Status]" section right at the top with basically what you just said, and then we can leave it Incomplete and consider it cleared from a tracking perspective. If you could stay subscribed or assigned please, then if it does make any progress we can track it again.
[16:28] <ubottu> bug 1384503 in rsync (Ubuntu Trusty) "rsync fails on large files with compression" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1384503
[16:28] <rbasak> rharper: I find that updating the status right at the top makes it really clear for those who comment and complain etc without actually reading all the comments.
[16:29] <rharper> rbasak: OK ,will do
[16:29] <rbasak> rharper: marking bug 1511735 as cleared - thank you for driving and suffering all that pain!
[16:29] <ubottu> bug 1511735 in libnl3 (Ubuntu Trusty) "libnl: fail to bind() netlink sockets" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1511735
[16:30] <rharper> rbasak: sure
[16:30] <rbasak> Noting bug 1491406 as making progress, thank you.
[16:30] <ubottu> bug 1491406 in augeas (Ubuntu) "augeas-lenses-1.2.0 - NagiosCfg lens broken for /etc/nagios.cfg due to spaces" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1491406
[16:31] <rharper> rbasak: yep, I should have the reproducer done today, and iwth that I can create a debdiff with the fix pulled from upstream/current-release
[16:31] <rbasak> Sounds good!
[16:31] <rbasak> OK I'm done with progress updates I think. Did I miss anything?
[16:32] <jgrimm> nicely done. thanks
[16:32] <rbasak> I have four bugs lined up to assign, mainly for continued ramp up.
[16:33] <rbasak> If anyone has any others that may be more important to point out, please do.
[16:33] <rbasak> Bug 1581839 is a good one for packaging practice.
[16:33] <ubottu> bug 1581839 in clamav (Ubuntu Xenial) "package clamdscan 0.98.7+dfsg-0ubuntu4 failed to install/upgrade: trying to overwrite '/usr/share/man/man1/clamdscan.1.gz', which is also in package clamav-daemon 0.98.7+dfsg-0ubuntu0.14.04.1" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1581839
[16:34] <rbasak> Also I have bug 1524526, bug 1544400 and bug 1472639. I don't know if are valid and need an actual upload but it would be good to get these off the list.
[16:34] <ubottu> bug 1524526 in dovecot (Ubuntu Xenial) "Crashes with undefined symbol" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1524526
[16:34] <ubottu> bug 1544400 in squid3 (Ubuntu) "squid3: systemctl reports squid is running when there is a bungled squid.conf and it has exited." [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1544400
[16:34] <ubottu> bug 1472639 in openldap (Ubuntu) "apparmor profile denied for kerberos: /run/.heim_org.h5l.kcm-socket" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1472639
[16:34] <rbasak> That will do for now I think, unless anyone has any others that need attention?
[16:34] <rbasak> nacc, I would definitely put your bacula bugs above all of these.
[16:35] <nacc> rbasak: ack
[16:35] <rbasak> Any takers?
[16:36] <rbasak> Well, cpaelzer already volunteered, so I'm going to give him bug 1581839 and bug 1524526.
[16:37] <ubottu> bug 1581839 in clamav (Ubuntu Xenial) "package clamdscan 0.98.7+dfsg-0ubuntu4 failed to install/upgrade: trying to overwrite '/usr/share/man/man1/clamdscan.1.gz', which is also in package clamav-daemon 0.98.7+dfsg-0ubuntu0.14.04.1" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1581839
[16:37] <ubottu> bug 1524526 in dovecot (Ubuntu Xenial) "Crashes with undefined symbol" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1524526
[16:37] <rbasak> nacc's plate is full I think.
[16:37] <cpaelzer> rbasak: thanks
[16:37] <rbasak> rharper, shall I give you bug 1472639 so you don't end up empty?
[16:37] <ubottu> bug 1472639 in openldap (Ubuntu) "apparmor profile denied for kerberos: /run/.heim_org.h5l.kcm-socket" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1472639
[16:37] <rharper> rbasak: sure
[16:37] <cpaelzer> rbasak: as I said this time it might take more time as I'm also a day off, but I'll look into them as soon as I can
[16:37] <rbasak> cpaelzer: sure, that's absolutely fine.
[16:38] <rbasak> We're still on fairly low priority bugs at the moment, but I think things are ramping up well.
[16:38] <rbasak> Please do make a note of anything you think needs more attention and we can assign them next week.
[16:38] <rbasak> Thanks all!
[16:38] <jgrimm> thanks rbasak
[16:38] <rbasak> Any comments or questions before I close?
[16:39] <rbasak> #endmeeting
</pre>
