{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 18 Apr at 16:01 &mdash; 16:32 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-04-18-16.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:01.

** ''ACTION:'' rbasak, powersj, cpaelzer to draft mysql triage response page like nginx has (carried over)
** ''ACTION:'' smoser to write a release notes entry on cloud-init (ds-identify) (carried over)
** ''ACTION:'' nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carry over)
** ''ACTION:'' nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carry over)
** ''ACTION:'' rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carry over)
** ''LINK:'' https://code.launchpad.net/~raharper/cloud-init/+git/cloud-init/+merge/321397 
** ''ACTION:'' rharper to write a release notes entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carry over)
** AA has not opened up yet, so we dont yet have a ReleaseSchedule link

==== AA Development ====
The discussion about "AA Development" started at 16:08.

** AA has not opened up yet, so we dont yet have a ReleaseSchedule link
* '''blueprints''' (16:08)
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-aa-server-core 
** planning for php7.1 in 17.10, and php7.2 for 18.04
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:10)
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1682499 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads" started at 16:14.

** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** cloud-init SRU mostly done, one or two left

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:18.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 
** virt tests on jenkins not green anymore, cpaelzer to look at issues

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:22.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:26.

** ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/ 
** no upcoming CfPs were mentioned.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:27.

** no server team events mentioned

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:28.

** caribou transitioned STS reporting to slashd for future meetings
** ''ACTION:'' rharper to update meeting template (caribou -> slashd)
** no updates

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:31.

** next meeting will be a week from now minus 31 minutes; chair will be powersj

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* caribou
** rharper to update meeting template (caribou -> slashd)
* cpaelzer
** rbasak, powersj, cpaelzer to draft mysql triage response page like nginx has (carried over)
* nacc
** nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carry over)
** nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carry over)
* powersj
** rbasak, powersj, cpaelzer to draft mysql triage response page like nginx has (carried over)
* rbasak
** rbasak, powersj, cpaelzer to draft mysql triage response page like nginx has (carried over)
* rharper
** rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carry over)
** rharper to write a release notes entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carry over)
** rharper to update meeting template (caribou -> slashd)
* smoser
** smoser to write a release notes entry on cloud-init (ds-identify) (carried over)

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rharper (67)
* nacc (17)
* powersj (10)
* meetingology (10)
* cpaelzer (7)
* ubottu (3)
* smoser (2)
* caribou (2)
* rbasak (2)
* smb (2)
* dpb1 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:01 <rharper> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Apr 18 16:01:30 2017 UTC.  The chair is rharper. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:01 <meetingology> 

 16:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:01 <rharper> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:01 <cpaelzer> o/

 16:01 <dpb1> hola

 16:02 <rharper> hey, just getting started, reviewing previous meeting topics

 16:02 <rharper> previous item: rbasak, powersj, cpaelzer to draft mysql triage response page like nginx has (carried over)

 16:02 <rharper> do we need to still carry that?

 16:02 <cpaelzer> yes, no changes afaik

 16:03 <rharper> #action rbasak, powersj, cpaelzer to draft mysql triage response page like nginx has (carried over)

 16:03 * meetingology rbasak, powersj, cpaelzer to draft mysql triage response page like nginx has (carried over)

 16:03 <rharper> smoser to write a release notes entry on cloud-init (ds-identify)

 16:03 <smoser> i'll go put something there.

 16:03 <rharper> #ACTION smoser to write a release notes entry on cloud-init (ds-identify) (carried over)

 16:03 * meetingology smoser to write a release notes entry on cloud-init (ds-identify) (carried over)

 16:03 <rharper> nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot

 16:03 <rbasak> draft mysql triage> carry over again please

 16:03 <rharper> carry over?

 16:04 <nacc> rharper: yep

 16:04 <rbasak> Oh, you did that, thanks.

 16:04 <rharper> #action nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carry over)

 16:04 * meetingology nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carry over)

 16:04 <rharper> nacc: server guide?

 16:04 <nacc> rharper: still needed to

 16:04 <nacc> although serverguide isn't doing a release for this cycle, iirc

 16:04 <rharper> #action nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carry over)

 16:04 * meetingology nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carry over)

 16:05 <rharper> rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init

 16:05 <rharper> #action rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carry over)

 16:05 * meetingology rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carry over)

 16:05 <rharper> though I did write up docs for it in cloud-init

 16:06 <rharper> #link https://code.launchpad.net/~raharper/cloud-init/+git/cloud-init/+merge/321397

 16:06 <rharper> #action rharper to write a release notes entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carry over)

 16:06 * meetingology rharper to write a release notes entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carry over)

 16:06 <rharper> ok, that's all the previous actions

 16:07 <rharper> next up is AA Release, did we get a ReleaseSchedule yet ?

 16:07 <nacc> not afaik

 16:07 <rharper> #info AA has not opened up yet, so we dont yet have a ReleaseSchedule link

 16:08 <rharper> #topic AA Development

 16:08 <rharper> #info AA has not opened up yet, so we dont yet have a ReleaseSchedule link

 16:08 <rharper> #subtopic blueprints

 16:08 <rharper> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-aa-server-core

 16:08 <nacc> talked to ondrej, we'll move to php7.1 in 17.10

 16:09 <rharper> we should start updating that with items

 16:09 <nacc> and then php7.2 probably in 18.04

 16:09 <nacc> (that's sort of in the blueprint)

 16:09 <rharper> #info planning for php7.1 in 17.10, and php7.2 for 18.04

 16:09 <rharper> any other known planning items?  if not already added, please update blueprint  as you know

 16:10 <rharper> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:10 <rharper> any critical zesty bugs ?

 16:10 <nacc> i think the nm one is the big one

 16:10 <nacc> not really server

 16:10 <rharper> bug link ?

 16:11 <nacc> looking

 16:12 <nacc> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1682499

 16:12 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1682499 in systemd (Ubuntu Zesty) "disable dnssec" [High,Confirmed]

 16:12 <nacc> which isn't nm, i guess, systemd

 16:12 <nacc> but nm used systemd, and that's where people were hitting it

 16:12 <nacc> (systemd-networkd i think)

 16:12 <nacc> so i imagine server would also be affected

 16:13 <nacc> i think this is high priority but probablya n upstream issue: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/open-iscsi/+bug/1615694

 16:13 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1615694 in open-iscsi (Ubuntu) "[860730] Host experiencing constant session termination and recreation while using jumbo frames" [High,Triaged]

 16:13 <rharper> nacc: thanks

 16:14 <rharper> any other items related to zesty ?

 16:14 <rharper> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads

 16:14 <rharper> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:15 <rharper> there are quite a few cloud-init sru's in-flight, smoser

 16:16 <rharper> smoser: updates there?  mostly done? a lot left?

 16:16 <smoser> all but 1 really is eitehr verification done or just about

 16:16 <nacc> nice

 16:17 <rharper> #info cloud-init SRU mostly done, one or two left

 16:18 <rharper> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:18 <powersj> Last week completed final Zesty server ISO testing, cloud-init bug triage, updated a few merge requests, lots of server team bug triage, and updated docs on server QA.

 16:18 <rharper> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/

 16:18 <powersj> This week qemu huge pages testing, few more doc updates, work on jenkins slaves, and bug day work. For bugs I'll update my SRUs and then continue focus on cloud-init and want to look at openvpn.

 16:18 <powersj> FYI did have to reboot torkoal this morning after it seemed to go unresponsive

 16:18 <cpaelzer> powersj: any huge page testing on the bug we are currently on or in general?

 16:18 <rharper> powersj: hopefully not huge page related =/

 16:20 <powersj> cpaelzer: for ericson

 16:20 <cpaelzer> ok different case

 16:20 <cpaelzer> thanks

 16:20 <rharper> anything else for powersj ?

 16:20 <powersj> cpaelzer: we should look at virt tests btw

 16:21 <rharper> powersj: cpaelzer and I had a discussion this morning about bring in some more dpdk related testing;

 16:21 <cpaelzer> what happened there they were all green

 16:21 <powersj> ok

 16:21 <powersj> yeah... not so green anymore

 16:21 <powersj> Looks like a test issue, but I wasn't sure where to start on fixing those

 16:22 <cpaelzer> powersj: I will look at it, but more likely "my" tomorrow

 16:22 <powersj> no rush :)

 16:22 <rharper> #info virt tests on jenkins not green anymore, cpaelzer to look at issues

 16:22 <rharper> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)

 16:22 <smb> Nothing to report. Not much changed since the release last week (at least kernel-wise). Is there anything anybody wants to bring up?

 16:23 <rharper> yes ,one thing

 16:23 <rharper> Bug 1682456

 16:23 <ubottu> bug 1682456 in linux (Ubuntu Xenial) "md devices may leave remnants in /sys/class/block after removal" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1682456

 16:23 <rharper> fun with md driver w.r.t references on devices leaving stuff in sysfs ... appears to be known issue upstream;

 16:24 <rharper> it's not fatal (that is, you can still create new md devices after stopping them) but somethings not quite right

 16:24 <smb> rharper, ok, yeah. I'll keep an eye on that (and upstream)

 16:24 <rharper> smb: thanks, I'm waiting on a zesty kernel with the upstream bits; I can easily recreate (the bug also has reproduce instructions)

 16:25 <rharper> anything else for smb ?

 16:26 <rharper> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:26 <rharper> #link https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/

 16:27 <rharper> #info no upcoming CfPs were mentioned.

 16:27 <rharper> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:27 <rharper> anyone going to events soon ?

 16:27 <caribou> Since this is most probably my last meeting as part of the STS sustaining engineering team, I will ask slashd to take over responsabilities for the future meetings

 16:27 <caribou> please update the meeting template accordingly

 16:27 <rharper> caribou: ack; thanks for all of your help!

 16:28 <rharper> #info no server team events mentioned

 16:28 <rharper> #topic Open Discussion

 16:29 <rharper> #info caribou transitioned STS reporting to slashd for future meetings

 16:30 <rharper> #action rharper to update meeting template (caribou -> slashd)

 16:30 * meetingology rharper to update meeting template (caribou -> slashd)

 16:30 <rharper> any thing else to discuss ?

 16:31 <rharper> #info no updates

 16:31 <rharper> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:32 <rharper> next meeting will be a week from now minus 31 minutes; chair will be powersj

 16:32 <rharper> #info next meeting will be a week from now minus 31 minutes; chair will be powersj

 16:32 <powersj> woohoo!

 16:32 <rharper> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
