{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ====
TZ UTC -5
<pre>
(02:00:15 AM) cjwatson: so just waiting for asac
(02:02:14 AM) cjwatson: will wait one more minute
(02:02:23 AM) ogra: cjwatson, sorry, no report yet, i was smart enough to dd something to /dev/sda instead of /dev/sdd yesterday afternoon ... :( sda is a member of my raid1 while sdd is my usb stick ....
(02:02:30 AM) cjwatson: oops!
(02:02:51 AM) ogra: at least i had a week old backup about 4am i had it played back ....
(02:03:07 AM) ***ogra votes for distinct names for usb sticks in the future
(02:03:09 AM) cjwatson: I found my fingers typing 'dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sda' rather than 'dd if=/dev/zero of=alt.img' yesterday and was glad that (a) I didn't press Enter (b) I hadn't put sudo on the front
(02:03:26 AM) ogra: heh, i did both
(02:03:34 AM) cjwatson: ok, let's start, asac can catch up when he arrives
(02:03:41 AM) ogra: no big damage done though just took lots of time
(02:03:53 AM) cjwatson:  * Actions from last week
(02:03:53 AM) cjwatson:   * scim-bridge testing results?
(02:03:55 AM) calc: i've done rm -rf ~ (hit enter before completing the path), that was painful
(02:04:00 AM) cjwatson: that was asac and ogra IIRC
(02:04:05 AM) TheMuso: ogra: I *think* its called lack of sleep. :p
(02:04:39 AM) ogra: TheMuso, no, thats how i'm feeling right now after 3h of sleep this night :P
(02:04:52 AM) slangasek: ogra: clearly it should be corporate policy to not give Canonical employees root on their systems, to avoid such mishaps
(02:04:58 AM) ogra: lol
(02:05:40 AM) cjwatson: ogra: did you get a chance to test scim-bridge for dead-key support last week?
(02:06:36 AM) ArneGoetje: I didn't receive any feedback for dead-key support under scim-bridge... but some users' feedback in some LP bugs suggest that it works for them... so I decided to go for scim-bridge anyways.
(02:06:45 AM) ogra: i tried it once and didnt find any difference to the normal behavior ... but note that i still have an xorg.conf from the gutsy that was installed, not sure that has any influence
(02:07:14 AM) cjwatson: keyboard handling is one of the few things that has not changed much in xorg.conf
(02:07:25 AM) cjwatson: so that sounds ok
(02:07:32 AM) ogra: yeah, but i dont know if scim changed :)
(02:07:42 AM) ogra: so i mentioned it
(02:07:59 AM) cjwatson: ArneGoetje: I mentioned something related in /msg, but I think you may have missed it
(02:08:02 AM) cjwatson: 08:49 <cjwatson> installing im-switch at the moment will cause scim to be started for everyone, AFAICS
(02:08:06 AM) cjwatson: 08:49 <cjwatson> even those not in a CJK locale
(02:08:17 AM) ArneGoetje: correct.
(02:08:19 AM) cjwatson: perhaps im-switch should put 'default' below 'none' for all_ALL?
(02:08:48 AM) cjwatson: it sounds like it won't break anything (from the testing above), but also seems inefficient?
(02:09:04 AM) cjwatson: (but if there's a good reason not to do that, I'll back down)
(02:09:43 AM) ArneGoetje: 'default' seems to disable scim, because the envirenment variables are empty in that configuration.
(02:10:03 AM) ogra: i wonder if scim by default couldnt solve our kbd issues with x
(02:10:22 AM) ogra: afaik thats one of the reasons we still keep an xorg.conf for
(02:10:33 AM) ArneGoetje: ogra: which kbd issues?
(02:10:41 AM) ogra: it seems to handle non CJK setups just fine
(02:10:42 AM) slangasek: (well, I know one problem it doesn't solve is oversized CDs... :)
(02:10:49 AM) cjwatson: ArneGoetje: oh. I apologise, I was looking at my local configuration and assuming it's the default
(02:11:01 AM) ArneGoetje: cjwatson: common mistake ;)
(02:11:35 AM) ArneGoetje: cjwatson: in fact the im-switch setup is not as straight forward as it could be...
(02:11:43 AM) ogra: ArneGoetje, Xorg can wonderfully work without xorg.conf nowadays ... we keep a config file because we have no sane way of handling keymaps and mice yet
(02:11:51 AM) cjwatson: ogra: input hotplug needs some more work than that, I think
(02:12:01 AM) cjwatson: Timo tried the obvious hal approach and it broke for him
(02:12:07 AM) ogra: but scim seems o be there already
(02:12:13 AM) ogra: *to
(02:12:29 AM) ogra: (i dont talk about hardy :) )
(02:12:43 AM) cjwatson: scim doesn't do generalised keyboard layout handling, just specialised CJK-type things
(02:13:28 AM) cjwatson: ok, I'll add im-switch to desktop at the next opportunity on Arne's behalf, then; it's tiny
(02:13:38 AM) ArneGoetje: thanks
(02:13:46 AM) cjwatson:  * Alpha-6 status
(02:13:51 AM) ArneGoetje: question remains:
(02:13:51 AM) cjwatson: ... I gather size may be relevant here ...
(02:14:13 AM) ArneGoetje: should scim be enabled or disabled by default for all_ALL?
(02:14:35 AM) cjwatson: my vote is for disabled
(02:14:42 AM) ArneGoetje: currently it's enabled
(02:15:00 AM) ogra: can you select by locale ?
(02:15:19 AM) cjwatson: ArneGoetje: but as you said above all_ALL points to 'default' by default, which doesn't start scim
(02:22:20 AM) slangasek: there are still a few bugs listed on https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/hardy-alpha-6 that could use some attention; most of the remaining bugs are not actually blockers for alpha-6 so I'll be moving them around later this evening, but everything there is at least high-priority for release
(02:22:20 AM) cjwatson: it's probably time to start gardening the targeted-to-hardy bug list too
(02:23:21 AM) slangasek: as ogra notes, there are some size issues currently with the images - we have about half a dozen packages newly seeded on the Ubuntu liveCD since alpha-5, for instance, and between that and the death-of-a-thousand-cuts growth of individual packages, we're hurting to get the images down to size
(02:23:21 AM) slangasek: because we've already pruned almost all of the language packs in earlier alphas, leaving us with almost nothing left to prune in that department right now(!)
(02:24:06 AM) slangasek: mvo has already helped out with this last night by shrinking one of the new packages for me, but if anyone can think of changes they've made since alpha-5 that are costing us space and that we might be able to squeeze more space out of, that would be helpful
(02:24:22 AM) slangasek: otherwise I'm going to see what I can do with the langpacks still
(02:24:34 AM) ogra_: slangasek, artwork ?
(02:24:48 AM) ogra_: my new wallpaper says its 3.5M big
(02:24:55 AM) TheMuso: Mousetweaks has been added, but I think its small. I shall investigate however...
(02:24:57 AM) slangasek: and yes, at this point the targeted-to-hardy bug list also includes a number of bugs we should be working on in parallel: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+bugs
(02:25:07 AM) ogra_: (compared to 900k or so with the defaults we had before)
(02:26:15 AM) slangasek: ogra_: I don't mean to take up the meeting with brainstorming; I'm around for several hours after the meeting, we can take this up out-of-band
(02:26:27 AM) ogra_: indeed
(02:26:59 AM) slangasek: cjwatson: that's it for my report
(02:27:02 AM) cjwatson: sounds like today is going to be a weight-watchers day for Ubuntu
(02:27:05 AM) cjwatson: ok, thanks Steve
(02:27:10 AM) cjwatson: any other business?
(02:27:18 AM) TheMuso: I've had another idea that could give us 1.2MB of space back.
(02:27:23 AM) slangasek: (more like Slim-Fast, I think :)
(02:27:26 AM) ***TheMuso will take to devel
(02:30:59 AM) slangasek: no other business for me
(02:32:00 AM) calc: sorry my router ate itself
(02:34:01 AM) calc: i can't see anything, is the meeting still going on?
(02:34:19 AM) evand: calc: yes, we're on AOB
(02:36:36 AM) cjwatson: we're on "Colin had thought it was done and wasn't paying attention" :-)
(02:36:46 AM) cjwatson: adjourned, thanks all
</pre>
