{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** No action items
* Precise Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* rbasak to try precise on pandaboard
* hallyn to swap rbasak for NCommander in arm agenda section

===== Review Actions from previous meeting =====

There were no action items from the previous meeting.

===== Precise Development =====

Daviey pointed to http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
and http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/triage-report.html need some
love.  rbasak agreed to take bug 906735 ("package installation should create /var/log/puppet"),
and SpamapS thought bug 898340 ("mysql clients statically link libmysqlclient in") should be
on the release radar.

adam_g completed charms for openstack, and SpamapS will review.

jamespage is off the stable rotation now, and will have time to work on the CI lab.

Daviey asked that everyone look for good bug targets for next week.

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

Next week, some of the server team will be sprinting in Budapest, and Fosdem

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

jamespage put a few new iso install tests live, so we now have daily testing.  patrickmw has put up a new precise dashboard reporting daily testing results at https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com.  Precise ec2 images are broken due to a kernel oops (bug 911204).  smb believes xen guests were broken by some upstream rtc changes.  Openstack automated testing should be picking up in the next few days.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====

Bug 902951 ("CONFIG_VIRTIO_BLK shouldnt be a module") was brought up, but appears to be stalled.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander) =====

Daviey is concerned that ARM kernel bugs will be found late in the cycle.  rbasak therefore agreed to try precise on a pandaboard.

===== Open Discussion =====

rbasak asked about bug 858878  ("lack of csrf protection in cobbler-web").  RoAkSoAx says it's a security issue and therefore goes through a different process than SRUs, so he can't do any more to kick it.  adam_g asked zul to bake the next openstack snapshot in a ppa for a few days before the friday release.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Jan 17 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>

 16:00:22 <hallyn> #startmeeting

 16:00:22 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan  3 16:00:22 2012 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 16:00:22 <meetingology> 

 16:00:22 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:00:32 <RoAkSoAx> was just about to start it :P

 16:00:42 <Daviey> o/

 16:00:44 <hallyn> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:00:45 <SpamapS> RoAkSoAx: you're after me. :)

 16:00:53 <hallyn> no  topics :)

 16:00:55 <m_3> o/

 16:01:00 <hallyn> #topic Precise Development

 16:01:03 <hallyn> over to Daviey

 16:01:06 <RoAkSoAx> SpamapS: ;)

 16:01:26 <jamespage> o/

 16:01:31 <Daviey> We are all catching up on backlog email no dohbt ;)

 16:01:31 <SpamapS> Daviey: back from the hinterlands?

 16:01:35 <Daviey> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html needs some lovin'

 16:02:10 <SpamapS> Daviey: I have another one for that list I think

 16:02:10 <Daviey> SpamapS: i'm still on holiday :)

 16:02:12 * smb awes at the use of German... :)

 16:02:15 <Daviey> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/triage-report.html needs some love!

 16:02:27 <Daviey> Is there anything of particular nature onanyones mind?

 16:02:40 <hallyn> eh what?  netcf is packaged.  Fixed the status of that bug

 16:02:44 <rbasak> I can take bug 906735, that seems simple enough

 16:02:45 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 906735 in puppet (Ubuntu) "package installation should create /var/log/puppet" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/906735

 16:02:50 <SpamapS> bug #898340 needs to be on the release radar I think

 16:02:51 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 898340 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu) "mysql clients statically link libmysqlclient in" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/898340

 16:02:59 <hallyn> right now p11-kit is on my mind - can't check email over mutt!

 16:03:14 <Daviey> adam_g: How are the charms looking for openstack?

 16:03:28 <adam_g> Daviey: horizon + keystone submitted to for approval in to the charm store

 16:03:48 <Daviey> SpamapS: are you one of the reviewers? :)

 16:03:54 <m_3> adam_g: gotta tag them with new-charm to hit the review queue

 16:04:10 <adam_g> i submitted them after EOD friday prior to holiday

 16:04:15 <SpamapS> I will definitely review

 16:04:17 <Daviey> jamespage: Are you off rotation from stable now?

 16:04:21 <adam_g> m_3: ah, ill do that

 16:04:25 <jamespage> Daviey: yep!

 16:05:06 <Daviey> jamespage: viable to work on the CI lab this week?

 16:05:19 <jamespage> Daviey: almost certainly

 16:05:23 * SpamapS goes afk to usher family out the door

 16:05:27 <jamespage> (== yes)

 16:05:43 <hallyn> bug 607039 needs module-init-tools love, but i'm not sure how best to do it since we differ from debian

 16:05:44 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 607039 in nfs-utils (Ubuntu) "NFS4 automount using replicated servers doesn't work" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/607039

 16:05:51 <Daviey> So.. If everyone can make sure they: - review WI'

 16:06:17 <Daviey> s to make srue they uare up to date. - udp

 16:06:20 <Daviey> up to date

 16:06:20 <Daviey> ()[Ddamn lag)

 16:06:33 <smb> Daviey, less coffee

 16:06:45 <Daviey> Burn through the incoming bug list..

 16:06:45 <Daviey> and look for targets for next week, that would rock

 16:06:45 <Daviey> any questions?

 16:06:46 <hallyn> pour some on the intertubes

 16:07:00 <hallyn> 'look for targets for next week'?

 16:07:25 <Daviey> hallyn: Things that are better addressed face-to-face

 16:07:29 <Daviey> ()[DSome of Canonical server team are meeting face to face next week

 16:07:30 <hallyn> ok

 16:07:48 <hallyn> moving on?

 16:07:53 <Daviey> rocking

 16:07:55 <hallyn> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:08:14 <hallyn> little shindig next week, according to rumors

 16:08:15 <Daviey> Next week, some of server team in Budapest

 16:08:50 <Daviey> Fosdem in feb

 16:09:20 <Daviey> ()[D4-5th

 16:09:44 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:10:19 <Daviey> jamespage: have you been closer to this?

 16:10:53 <jamespage> in some areas probably

 16:11:02 <hallyn> ?

 16:11:07 <hallyn> what is 'this'?

 16:11:14 <Daviey> jamespage: how is automated looking?

 16:11:24 <Daviey> (QA and testing)

 16:11:41 <hallyn> ah

 16:11:41 <jamespage> I put a few new ISO install tests live just before Chirstmas; so we now have daily testing of Multi-volume LVM and RAID-1 installs

 16:12:03 <hallyn> neat

 16:12:18 <jamespage> patrickmw has put a new precise dashboard live for the daily testing - https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Precise%20ISO%20Testing%20Dashboard/view/Daily/?

 16:12:21 <hggdh> which means we are pretty much complete for ISO testing, I guess

 16:12:29 <Daviey> oooo

 16:12:43 <Daviey> hey hggdh  o/

 16:13:02 <jamespage> you will notice the the precise ec2 images are broken ATM - nice kernel oops

 16:13:37 <hggdh> Daviey: happy new year, etc :-)

 16:13:40 * jamespage digs for the bug

 16:13:48 <Daviey> eeek

 16:14:05 <jamespage> bug 911204

 16:14:07 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 911204 in linux (Ubuntu) "precise ec2 images fail to boot with kernel oops" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/911204

 16:14:17 <smb> Seems someone upstream managed to break Xen/EC2 guests on Precise by some rtc changes. I believe to understand the problem by now. Need to start discussion.

 16:14:53 <Daviey> \o/

 16:14:57 <jamespage> :-(

 16:15:10 <hggdh> and minimal-virtual still shows about 100M more than it should for installed size... must be something we are adding in on the jenkins test

 16:15:41 <jamespage> hggdh: no - the test takes that into account - amd64 is to large

 16:15:52 <hggdh> jamespage: by 100M?

 16:16:01 <hggdh> er, O(100)

 16:16:05 <jamespage> yes I think so

 16:16:13 <smb> jamespage, I hope to be able to try a patch later on. At least I can see it to some degree on my local system, too.

 16:16:52 <jamespage> Openstack automated testing progress has been slow but hopefully progress in the next few days

 16:17:21 <jamespage> adam_g, zul and I need to catchup as we have all been working on misc pieces of the puzzle

 16:17:30 <adam_g> jamespage: id love to actually pair with you on that now that we can deploy keystone + horizon with the other charms

 16:17:31 <zul> indeed

 16:17:41 <jamespage> +1 to that

 16:18:22 <jamespage> I'll make sure that all of the infrastructure pieces are done this week

 16:18:32 <jamespage> it will make a good target to complete early during the sprint

 16:18:44 <jamespage> thats it from me...

 16:18:54 <hallyn> ok, thanks - moving on

 16:18:59 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:19:17 <Daviey> sm	hey

 16:19:20 <smb> Beside of the new precise breakage... not much to report yet

 16:19:24 <Daviey> I hear the ec2 precise kernel is bad.. :)

 16:19:49 <smb> Just when one does not look for 2 weeks

 16:20:08 <smb> On the other hand the change to make it boot at all came in via upstream. :-P

 16:20:12 <Daviey> bug 902951 ?

 16:20:13 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 902951 in linux (Ubuntu) "CONFIG_VIRTIO_BLK shouldnt be a module" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/902951

 16:20:49 <smb> Probably goes alongside with the problem we have with the xen pv drivers

 16:20:57 <Daviey> zul: ^?

 16:21:31 <zul> Daviey: thats with the amd64 kernel i havent tried it recently

 16:21:35 <smb> While I think that one was already in the installer but needed a special action to load the module

 16:21:55 <Daviey> ahh

 16:22:27 <Daviey> smb: Are you aware how the various ARM kernels are doing?

 16:22:27 <Daviey> rbasak: ^^?

 16:22:38 <smb> Daviey, No

 16:22:46 * rbasak doesn't know

 16:23:08 <Daviey> I'm concerned we'll notice something late in the cycle.

 16:23:40 <rbasak> I've not tried precise on a pandaboard yet but I can stick that in my todo if you like

 16:23:50 <smb> Daviey, Have we committed really there. Given that Xen on arm is just being done

 16:24:01 <hallyn> #action rbasak to try precise on pandaboard

 16:24:01 * meetingology rbasak to try precise on pandaboard

 16:24:30 <Daviey> smb: Not in specific to xen on arm, that is a nice to have / SRU / Universe thing, if possible

 16:24:42 <Daviey> Just general ARM kernel support.

 16:25:04 <Daviey> Last cycle we noticed missi g modules very late

 16:25:55 <smb> Daviey, Ah... Ok, have not noticed anyone shouting at me. But you can ask ppisati maybe

 16:26:06 <Daviey> ok, thanks!

 16:26:14 <Daviey> ..

 16:26:28 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)

 16:26:40 <hallyn> (should we swap in rbasak for that?)

 16:27:35 <hallyn> i'll take that as a yes, and ask rbasak: any other arm related news?

 16:27:57 <hallyn> (rbasak: you interface regularly with NCommander?)

 16:28:37 <rbasak> OK, I'll check with NCommander in the weekly ARM meeting, I can swap Daviey for rbasak in their agenda too

 16:29:05 <hallyn> hm, well moving on

 16:29:09 <hallyn> oops

 16:29:35 <hallyn> rbasak: thanks

 16:29:42 <rbasak> No news as far as I'm aware. I'll test precise on a panda this week

 16:30:08 <hallyn> #action hallyn to swap rbasak for NCommander in arm agenda section

 16:30:08 * meetingology hallyn to swap rbasak for NCommander in arm agenda section

 16:30:09 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community

 16:31:31 <hallyn> moving on,

 16:31:36 <hallyn> #topic Open Discussion

 16:31:56 <rbasak> bug 858878 - RoAkSoAx, where are we with that?

 16:31:57 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 858878 in cobbler (Ubuntu Oneiric) "lack of csrf protection in cobbler-web" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/858878

 16:32:04 <rbasak> (this is for the SRU rather than Precise)

 16:32:28 <RoAkSoAx> rbasak: so changes were uncommitted as the security process is different, so really there's nothing I can do

 16:32:36 <adam_g> zul: when is the next openstack snapshot going out?

 16:32:44 <RoAkSoAx> rbasak: as it is a security update not an SRU

 16:32:51 <rbasak> OK, so does someone else need to sponsor it?

 16:33:00 <RoAkSoAx> rbasak: uyes someone from the security team

 16:33:00 <zul> adam_g: friday

 16:33:02 <RoAkSoAx> rbasak: I can'

 16:33:02 <rbasak> or are we just waiting on the security team?

 16:33:11 <rbasak> OK I'll poke them, thanks

 16:33:26 <Daviey> rbasak: is there a prepped security update?

 16:33:26 <RoAkSoAx> rbasak: I can't recall who was helping me on that and said that he will push it thru, but then I went on holidays and forgot, sorry :(

 16:33:43 <adam_g> zul: any chance it can roast for a day or two in a PPA first?

 16:33:48 <rbasak> Daviey: yes, except that I need to change the pocket presumably

 16:34:14 <rbasak> Daviey: lp:~racb/ubuntu/oneiric/cobbler/security_201112

 16:34:15 <zul> adam_g: sure i can let it stew in a ppa by thursday

 16:35:08 <adam_g> zul: if you can let it simmer there, that'd be cool. we can boil out any bugs before end of week so we're in good shape in budapest

 16:35:21 <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: rbasak I think its wise to check the security ppa, cause, AFAIK, it was supposed to hit the PPA in order to test, and I was gonna be ping to do so

 16:35:23 <rbasak> ah, the pocket is correct. so just waiting for sponsor/review

 16:35:33 <zul> adam_g: no worries

 16:35:54 <hallyn> all right, moving on,

 16:35:56 <hallyn> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:36:01 <hallyn> none next week i assume, so

 16:36:06 <hallyn> Tuesday, Jan 17 at 16:00 UTC

 16:36:12 <hallyn> thanks, all

 16:36:15 <hallyn> #endmeeting

</pre>
