{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   01:02 mdz        good morning folks
   01:02 ogra       hmm
   01:02 mdz        do we have everyone?
   01:02 seb128     hi mdz
   === ogra wonders if he got his TZs wrong
   01:03 Mithrandir pong
   === pitti yawns a 'yes'
   01:03 mdz        BenC is on holiday
   01:03 fschoep    kwwii: I feel your pain, same problem here although for a different reason.
   01:03 pitti      right, pokering himself rich
   === mvo is here
   01:03 dholbach   here
   01:03 zul        here..
   01:03 doko       core dump
   01:04 mdz        Kamion,fabbione,Keybuk,sfllaw,rodarvus,Riddell,iwj: ping
   01:04 Kamion     here
   01:04 rodarvus   mdz, pong
   01:04 fabbione   mdz: yeps i am here
   01:04 Kamion     (was talking before you arrived, didn't realise you had no scrollback)
   01:04 Keybuk     mdz: yes, here
   01:04 mdz        Kamion: iwj doesn't seem to be online; could you ring him?
   01:04 Riddell    pong
   01:04 ogra       doko, stp throwing your peach leftovers around
   01:04 ogra       *stop
   01:04 Kamion     I understood iwj was sending an update via sfllaw
   01:04 Kamion     isn't he travelling?
   01:05 ogra       on a marriage iirc
   01:05 mdz        oh, right, he's off today
   01:05 Kamion     yes he's going to the same wedding tomorrow that I am but travelling earlier
   01:05 sfllaw     It's not in my inbox...
   01:05 sfllaw     I'll look again.
   01:06 mdz        ok, let's get started
   01:06 sfllaw     Mmm.  Nope.
   01:06 mdz        fschoep requested an early slot, so he's up first
   01:06 mdz        fschoep: go
   01:06 fschoep    Done:
   01:06 fschoep    * wide-theme-selector: contacted bersace to update spec
   01:06 fschoep    * write up technical limitations / possibilities for artwork targets based on existing documentations
   01:06 fschoep    * community artwork checkpoint one
   01:06 fschoep    * sudden vacation
   01:06 fschoep    Ongoing:
   01:06 fschoep    * ubuntu-art-login-manager, ubuntu-art-login-splash, ubuntu-art-usplash, ubuntu-art-wallpaper: ongoing proposals, made sketches for usplash and GDM theme
   01:06 fschoep    * art-polish-human-gtk-theme: identify areas for improvement
   01:06 fschoep    * ubuntu-art-complete-highcontrast-icons, art-polish-human-icons: find and document icons which need work
   01:06 fschoep    * wide-theme-selector: fix spec, determine feasibility
   01:07 fschoep    In the spotlight this week:
   01:07 fschoep    * community artwork finishes Propose phase, gather results, summarize and decide direction for artwork production
   01:07 Kamion     sfllaw: he phoned me earlier this evening and was definitely intending to send an update. Must have got stuck in a mail queue somewhere. :-(
   01:07 mdz        fschoep: art-polish-human-icons has status Unknown; is it started or no?
   01:08 mdz        fschoep: also, cd-dvd-artwork has status Needs Infrastructure, but I don't see anything in the status whiteboard which explains what infrastructure it's waiting on
   01:08 fschoep    Well, it is started, but not in the sense that icons are being produced. I'm finishing up the list of work.
   01:08 mdz        fschoep: I'd call a-p-h-g-t Started then
   01:08 fschoep    OK
   01:08 kwwii      mdz: on the DVD artwork side, I guess I could add a few questions to that
   01:09 kwwii      erm cd-dvd-artwork
   01:09 fschoep    For the media artwork - I haven't decided yet if we want to do it with the community.
   01:09 kwwii      I will ask a few questions :-)
   01:09 mdz        kwwii: note that it's possible that we won't send Edgy CDs via shipit, but rather continue to ship Dapper CDs
   01:10 mdz        that's why that item is deprioritized, fwiw
   01:10 kwwii      at least we should get a general idea of what kind of graphics are necessary for that before we even start suggesting anything
   01:10 Keybuk     mdz: really?  that's, err, interesting
   01:10 mdz        Keybuk: it's, err, complicated
   01:10 kwwii      mdz: even so, starting a new design idea would be a good idea, I think (if we could pull it off decently)
   01:10 mdz        we can chat about it later if you like
   01:11 mdz        fschoep: thanks for the update
   01:11 mdz        kwwii: next?
   01:12 mdz        kwwii: if you aren't prepared, we'll need to come back to you
   01:12 mdz        doko: next
   01:12 doko       - this week
   01:12 doko         openoffice.org: 2.0.3 packages in edgy and dapper-proposed, still need work before the next knot, next upload will have again native amd64 packages called -experimental.
   01:12 doko         edgy-toolchain: glibc FTBFS with -fstack-protector, beeing worked on; glibc ABI problems with long-double-128 on sparc and powerpc, beeing worked on; backport and test of the -mtune=generic patches for gcc-4.1, build gnat-4.1 from separate sources
   01:12 doko         other: some sync request, mostly python related, ia32-libs* updates
   01:12 doko       - next week
   01:12 doko         openoffice.org: 2.0.3 packages for dapper-proposed, so that we can have a decision about including these in the dapper point release.
   01:13 doko         more openoffice.org work
   === jsgotangco [n=jsg123@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:13 doko       all other specs: no progress this week
   01:13 mdz        doko: I did an emergency upgrade of my desktop to amd64 today; I'm interested in testing the oo.o stuff
   01:13 pitti      me too :)
   01:13 mdz        doko: earlier today, oo.o upgrade was impossible on i386. is that sorted now?
   01:13 doko       mdz: will have to wait for the next upload; will do that tomorrow
   01:14 doko       mdz: I know the bugs and fixes, fixed for the next upload
   01:14 kwwii      mdz: ready now...
   01:14 mdz        ok
   01:14 mdz        doko: is that the only fallout from -fstack-protector so far?  should we do a full rebuild test?
   01:15 Kamion     yaboot broke too
   01:15 pitti      mdz: glibc is special since it does some runtime detection of ssp and uses it for only some files
   01:15 mdz        doko: is the python transition complete for main, or do some still remain? if so, is there a list?
   01:15 doko       mdz: I would propose to do that one after the -mtune-generic update
   01:15 mdz        ok
   01:15 pitti      mdz: don't we do rebuild tests anyway?
   01:15 doko       mdz: it's difficult to tell, because we didn't remove old packages yet.
   01:15 pitti      closer to the release, at least
   01:15 doko       python2.4-XXX
   01:15 mdz        pitti: yes, but not until later
   01:15 Kamion     doko: on the contrary I've removed most of the python ones
   01:16 Kamion     I left out a couple where the new versions hadn't built yet
   01:16 doko       Kamion: ohh, didn't know. will check tomorrow
   01:16 mdz        doko: the ones which are obsolete should show up in anastacia
   01:16 Kamion     but I think I got everything else
   01:17 mdz        doko: ok, thanks
   01:17 mdz        kwwii: next
   01:17 Kamion     (haven't removed all other NBS binaries yet, though I've done some; it takes a while)
   01:17 Kamion     (if you're being careful anyway)
   01:17 kwwii      more and more input coming from the community...lots of time spent on
   01:17 kwwii      irc
   01:17 kwwii      hacking on kdm theme. Implemented various ideas using the xml from
   01:17 kwwii      dapper as well (those on the wiki)
   01:17 Keybuk     Kamion: I've tended to do them while doing the NEW queue
   01:17 kwwii      tweaking icons for qt bzr ui
   01:17 kwwii      worked on wallpaper variants (http://wiki.kubuntu.org/Artwork/Kubuntu-
   01:17 kwwii      Edgy-Ideas)
   01:17 Keybuk     though that's mostly NBS due to soname change
   01:17 kwwii      working on the default color scheme (computing color contrasts,
   01:17 kwwii      tweaking palette)
   01:17 kwwii      working on buttons for window deco (and kdm)
   01:17 kwwii      ouch
   01:17 kwwii      that did not come out how I wanted it, sorry
   01:17 mdz        kwwii: try not to word-wrap next time; it'll go faster
   01:18 kwwii      mdz: sorry
   01:18 mdz        kwwii: thanks
   01:18 kwwii      should I repost, line for line?
   01:18 mdz        Mithrandir: next
   01:18 Mithrandir sane-installer-keyboard: a fair amount of progress.  Tested the latest version of console-setup from Debian and apart from some minor faff, it appears to work.  Will hand over to Colin before going on vacation.
   01:18 mdz        kwwii: no, that's OK
   01:18 Mithrandir live-cd-stacked-filesystems: casper side implemented, server side discussed with Adam.
   01:18 Mithrandir other specs: no progress
   01:18 Mithrandir misc: gotten in touch with the Debian people about casper again, relationship working better now.
   01:18 Mithrandir next week: vacation.  I'll be away until the distro sprint for wedding preparations, wedding and honeymoon.  Colin or Adam (I think) will handle knot-2 and I'll be back for knot-3.
   01:18 mdz        kwwii,fschoep: if you're dividing the artwork specs between you, please set Assignee accordingly so it's clear who is doing what
   01:18 Mithrandir Kamion: I'll mail you about the sane-installer-keyboard stuff since you're gone tomorrow.
   01:18 Kamion     Mithrandir: thanks
   01:18 mdz        Mithrandir: please update s-i-k status in LP
   01:19 fschoep    mdz: sounds like a plan, right now we're using ubuntu-art as a general assignee.
   01:19 Mithrandir mdz: willdo
   01:19 mdz        Mithrandir: I'd like to hear about the casper relationship outside of the meeting, especially if there's any hope of getting them to participate in revision control properly
   01:20 mdz        Kamion: confirm that you'll fill in for knot-2?
   01:20 Kamion     mdz: yes
   01:20 mdz        ok
   01:20 kwwii      mdz: all the specs for Edgy are for both Ubuntu and Kubuntu (and Xubuntu as well, I guess)
   01:20 mdz        Mithrandir: thanks, and enjoy your break
   01:20 Mithrandir mdz: they seem to do that now; now I just miss cherrypicking in bzr..
   01:20 mdz        rodarvus: next
   01:20 rodarvus   Done This week:
   01:20 rodarvus     * Finished X.Org libs update to 7.1 (actually, to the latest version available, most of them, past 7.1), Mesa 6.5, xorg-server 1.1.1 (with new ABI)
   01:20 rodarvus     * Updated X.Org input drivers to latest version available (+ accomodate xorg-server ABI bump)
   01:20 rodarvus     * Started X.Org video drivers to latest version available (+ accomodate xorg-server ABI bump)
   01:20 rodarvus     * Started implementation of fully-automatic-swap-server
   01:20 rodarvus     * Work on i810 bugs on LaunchPad (escalated support requests)
   01:20 rodarvus     * Miscelaneous Edubuntu work
   01:20 rodarvus   Next week:
   01:21 rodarvus     * Finish update of X.Org video drivers (another 6-8 hours of work)
   01:21 rodarvus     * Finish implementation of fully-automatic-swap-server
   01:21 rodarvus     * Finish catching up with X bugs (primarily based on result from libs + drivers upgrades) (postponed from last week)
   01:21 rodarvus   Soon (no timeframe):
   01:21 rodarvus     * Officially start Ubuntu OLPC effort
   01:21 rodarvus     * Investigate other Linux distros (Fedora, OpenSuSE, etc) for nice X.Org patches which are not included in Ubuntu)
   01:21 rodarvus   Outsanding issues:
   01:21 rodarvus     * xorg-server (on sparc) and xserver-xorg-input-evie (all archs) FTBFS due to missing includes - check possible update of l-k-h with BenC and fabbione
   01:21 rodarvus   Apologies:
   01:21 rodarvus     * For publishing xorg-server before I had all X.Org {input|video} drivers ready to be uploaded - I was unaware of the ABI upgrade (rationale: I tested upgrade locally on two different machines, but as they use binary drivers, they were unnafected by this bug)
   01:21 rodarvus   (finally, sorry for the long report, I'll try to trim it next time)
   01:21 sfllaw     rodarvus: The xserver-xorg-video-* packages don't upgrade cleanly.  I think they need a Replaces: line in debian/control.
   01:21 Mithrandir rodarvus: have you any thoughts on the "dualhead with two cards broken in dapper" bug?  I'm thinking we should do an xserver-xorg update for it.
   01:21 mdz        rodarvus: I think we need for xserver-xorg-core to conflict with the versions of the drivers which use the old ABI in order to resolve the bug I filed
   01:22 mdz        oherwise they can get out of sync
   01:22 rodarvus   sfllaw, they already have a replaces tag there.
   01:22 Kamion     probably Breaks now
   01:22 sfllaw     I'm blind.
   01:22 Kamion     (now that we have it)
   01:22 mdz        rodarvus: it might be a good idea to add a Provides: to xserver-xorg-core for the ABI version, and have the drivers depend on that
   01:22 rodarvus   Mithrandir, I think so, lets talk about this after the meeting, or tomorrow
   01:22 mdz        Kamion: unless I missed something, only dpkg has it
   01:22 Keybuk     mdz: according to the spec, APT isn't supposed to need to know about it
   01:22 Kamion     mdz: yes, we should start using it where appropriate though
   01:22 Keybuk     other than for prettyness
   01:23 Mithrandir rodarvus: tomorrow's fine.
   01:23 rodarvus   mdz, hmm, yeah, I think you're right - I'll update xorg-server later
   01:23 rodarvus   (today, I mean)
   01:23 sfllaw     rodarvus: Nope.  xserver-xorg-video-all doesn't.
   01:23 mdz        Keybuk: hmm, I ought to have a look over that
   01:23 rodarvus   mdz, regarding abi version, yes, this is planned too
   01:23 mdz        I'd expect the ordering mechanism to need to know about it
   01:23 rodarvus   sfllaw, oh, so this one is missing - thanks for the report
   01:23 rodarvus   I'll update it too
   === rodarvus takes notes
   01:23 mdz        rodarvus: ok, thanks
   01:23 mdz        sfllaw: next
   01:23 sfllaw     Done
   01:23 sfllaw     * OttawaLinuxSymposium 2006
   01:23 sfllaw     * Gave a talk at the UniversityOfWaterloo
   01:23 sfllaw     To do
   01:23 sfllaw     * Write up Waterloo experience
   01:24 sfllaw     * Test plans for new features: QuietenGrub, ReviveTaskSel, HomeUserBackup
   01:24 sfllaw     * Bug triaging
   01:24 mdz        sfllaw: did you hear something back from the LP folks about getting bug stats?
   01:24 Kamion     sfllaw: happy to talk with you early next week about revive-tasksel if you need that
   01:25 sfllaw     mdz: That's something I have to write to them about.  I hadn't collected what I wanted to and e-mail was sporadic at the conference.
   01:25 sfllaw     Kamion: That would be lovely.
   01:25 ogra       the new Ubugtu feature is really nice btw ...
   01:25 mdz        sfllaw: thanks
   01:25 dholbach   yeah
   01:25 mdz        fabbione: next
   01:25 zul        sfllaw: if you need help with quietengrub im avaialble as well
   01:25 sfllaw     We can thank Seveas for that.
   01:25 fabbione   Done
   01:25 fabbione   * ubuntu-edgy-cluster: lot of work on the redhat-cluster-suite again. We have 2
   01:25 fabbione   regressions to fix compared to dapper but generally it doesn't look too bad.
   01:25 fabbione   * finally got pkgsum.u.c up and running (server spec from dapper) so i might up
   01:25 fabbione   load the client for edgy when i am back and after retesting it with the new inst
   01:25 fabbione   aller.
   01:25 fabbione   To do
   01:25 fabbione   * become a father, no really.
   01:25 mdz        ogra: what new Ubugtu feature?
   01:26 dholbach   mdz: announce of new bugs in #ubuntu-bugs
   01:26 mdz        fabbione: fabbione-birthing, Priority: Essential
   01:26 fabbione   mdz: ehehhe
   01:26 mdz        dholbach: oh, nice
   01:26 ogra       mdz, see -devel
   01:26 dholbach   it's quite depressing, but nice
   01:26 sfllaw     It's more frequent than I thought it'd be.
   01:26 sfllaw     And I'm pessimistic.
   01:26 sfllaw     fabbione: Congrats!
   01:26 mdz        it's about as frequent as I thought it would be
   01:26 seb128     mdz: not that nice after reading the chan for some hours and noticing how they come :/
   01:27 mdz        sfllaw: should hopefully provide a good entry point for new volunteers
   01:27 mdz        seb128: maybe there should be a separate channel
   01:27 doko       fabbione: the status is already "implemented"?
   01:27 mdz        seb128: or separate main and universe
   01:27 mdz        fabbione: thanks
   01:27 mdz        Kamion: next
   01:27 seb128     separate main and universe would be nice
   01:27 fabbione   thanks guys :)
   01:27 Kamion     Done:
   01:27 Kamion       revive-tasksel: Done except for a pending Soyuz patch to make the archive side work (sent to Celso and waiting for deployment). I tested the whole thing today and it seems to be working OK.
   01:27 Kamion       ubiquity: Continued with the big pile of bug-fixing and produced an initial dapper-updates upload.
   01:28 Kamion       ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Some more prodding at the custom disk bar widgets; not getting very far here, so I'm switching to writing the partman debconffilter glue and am making much better progress there. If anyone would like to volunteer to help write custom GTK (and Qt?) widgets to my specifications, that would be great. Doing them in Python where possible is fine.
   01:28 Kamion       libata-for-all-ata-disks: Did most of the required installer changes in conjunction with Scott et al. Some bootloader installer changes may still be needed.
   01:28 Kamion     To do:
   01:28 Kamion       ubiquity: Didn't get to #47742 last week, so try again this week.
   01:28 Kamion       ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Finish initial attempt at the partman glue. I'd like to have an initial crude presentation without the disk bar widgets by the end of next week if I can manage it.
   01:28 Kamion       dapper-point-release-process: Do the first Dapper point release. Most of the pieces are in place now; if you know of something that needs to go in, please tell me as soon as possible! (If I can squeeze in some required SPARC fixes, I will.)
   01:28 mdz        Kamion: do you have an approximate timeline for the point release?
   01:29 Kamion     mdz: I'd like it to end by the middle of next week; if infinity could start on livefs builds tomorrow, that would be lovely
   01:29 mdz        Kamion: if you send me an email with a description of what you need for the UI, I think we should be able to get some pygtk muscle with no problem.  perhaps Riddell can suggest someone for the Qt side
   01:29 fabbione   Kamion: please stay in contact with Ben for testing these bits. I will ask Davem too to test
   01:29 doko       Kamion: I would like to see OOo 2.0.3 in the point release; what would be the latest date for a decision?
   === Viper550 [n=viper550@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Amaranth [n=travis@ubuntu/member/amaranth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:29 Kamion     doko: anything later than the weekend or so is going to start running us into build time problems
   01:30 doko       ok
   01:30 Riddell    mdz: I could yes
   01:30 Kamion     mdz: testing should be light but focused on known-changed areas, I think
   01:30 mdz        if we hope to reduce the size of the dapper->dapper-updates upgrade, we should get oo.o in
   01:30 Kamion     we have some reasonable idea of what's been changed as far as the live CD goes
   01:30 Kamion     mdz: UI> OK, I can do that on Monday
   01:30 mdz        sfllaw: can you help Kamion with a test plan for known-changed stuff and regression tests?
   01:31 Kamion     fabbione: ok, thanks
   01:31 mdz        Kamion: please ask Adam about the ordering stuff for the point release as well; I assume that's pretty straightforward to do and should be quite safe
   01:32 Kamion     ok
   01:32 Kamion     is Adam on holiday?
   01:32 mdz        he couldn't make this meeting
   01:33 mdz        but he'll be in touch
   01:33 Kamion     ok, I'll mail him
   01:33 mdz        is BenC doing the kernel side of libata-for-all-ata-disks?
   01:33 Kamion     doko: have you had reasonable testing of the packages in dapper-proposed so far?
   01:33 Keybuk     it's done, no?
   01:33 Keybuk     well, other than the bootloader dep bit
   01:33 mdz        Keybuk: I thought when it was done, ATA disks would become /dev/sd* devices
   === Viper550 [n=viper550@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   01:34 Keybuk     mdz: vi /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-pata
   === Viper550 [n=viper550@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:34 Keybuk     mdz: adjust to taste
   01:34 doko       Kamion: did run the qa-tools on it; tested it except upgrades ... :-/
   01:34 mdz        Keybuk: are we not going to throw the switch and use them by default?
   01:34 Keybuk     mdz: yeah, that switch is in module-init-tools though -- probably need yaboot and $ia64bootloader to be done first ;)
   01:34 doko       Kamion: i386 and amd64 (i386) only, no powerpc and sparc testing
   01:35 mdz        Keybuk: ok
   01:35 mdz        Kamion: thanks
   01:35 mdz        mvo: next
   01:35 mvo        Did:
   01:35 mvo        - general catchup after my vacation (mail, specs, pkgs)
   01:35 mvo        - apt work:
   01:35 mvo          * automatic-dependency-removal bugfixing
   01:35 mvo          * fix some apt-ftparchive breakage
   01:35 mvo          * catchup with the deity list and various bugfixes
   01:35 mvo          * work on the ddtp branch (bugfixes, added support to synaptic)
   01:35 mvo          * sha256 support branch created that checks sha256 instead of md5 for all authentication (needs infrastructure support)
   01:35 mvo        - gnome-app-install:
   01:35 mvo          * better support for packages that are not available on all architectures
   01:35 mvo          * updated edgy desktop files
   01:35 mvo          * added popcon information to the desktop files
   01:35 mvo        - some work with pitti on the automatic crash reports spec (gui, update-notifier detects crashreports and tell the user about them)
   01:35 mvo        - some work on the smartpm spec (upgraded, pkg split)
   01:35 mvo        - added support in software-properties for the "easy-popcon participation" spec
   01:35 mvo        Will do:
   01:35 mvo        - work on the gnome-app-install desktop file caching/speedu
   01:35 mvo        - look into what aptitudes needs to natively work with the new apt auto-remove
   01:35 mvo        - work on a custom upload format for launchpad and the package description translations
   01:35 mvo        - see what my SoC student is doing
   === mvo apologizes that it is a bit long this time
   01:35 mdz        mvo: are you mostly caught up from when you were away?
   01:36 mvo        mdz: mostly, my bug backlog is terrible
   01:36 Riddell    mvo: I'll take a look at the python konsole patch tomorrow, should be great if it works
   === imbrandon [n=brandon@ubuntu/member/pdpc.active.imbrandon] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:37 mdz        mvo: ok, thanks
   01:37 mdz        Riddell: next
   01:37 mvo        Riddell: it should work, it needs a bit of love most likely to fully suport the methods of the console
   01:37 mvo        s/console/konsole/
   01:37 Riddell    done: kubuntu-printer-sharing, KDE 3.5.4 (no problems, will be requesting UVF exception)
   01:37 Riddell    blocked: kdepim needing some more main inclusion reviews.  backports
   01:37 Riddell    next week: langpacks-desktopfiles-kde, knot 2
   01:37 mdz        mvo: (I've added simple-popcon-participation as an edgy target)
   01:37 mvo        mdz: thanks, that is fine
   01:38 pitti      Riddell: reviews> argh, yes; I shall find some time tomorrow to process them
   01:38 mdz        Riddell: please make a pass over anastacia and check the demotions as well
   01:38 Riddell    mdz: ok
   01:38 mdz        pitti: maybe we should talk about sharing main inclusion reviews with jbailey?
   01:38 pitti      ++ :)
   01:38 mdz        pitti: if the load is high
   01:39 mdz        pitti: ok, please send a mail to him and me
   01:39 mdz        Riddell: thanks
   01:39 pitti      well, it's not too bad
   01:39 mdz        zul: next
   01:39 zul        done: uploaded xen-3.0 xen-source-2.6.16, kernel-security stuff
   01:39 zul        todo: more kernel security, xen on amd64, grub updates, bug triaging
   01:39 mdz        zul: is xen expected to stay at .16 for edgy?
   01:39 zul        yes..
   01:39 pitti      zul: do you get along with the new tracking stuff?
   01:39 mdz        zul: is there a howto anywhere for how to set it up and play?
   01:39 zul        pitti: yes im find with it
   01:39 zul        mdz: i have a page on the wiki
   01:40 mdz        zul: new grub seems to be working well for me all around
   01:40 zul        i havent had any complaints yet
   01:40 zul        or havent seen any either
   01:40 mdz        zul: a message to -devel-announce with a pointer to the instructions and a request for testing would be good
   === pygi_ [n=pygi@89-172-227-246.adsl.net.t-com.hr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:40 zul        ok..sounds good
   01:40 mdz        ok
   01:40 mdz        zul: thanks
   01:40 mdz        seb128: next
   01:41 seb128     Done:
   01:41 seb128     - GNOME 2.15.90
   01:41 seb128     - bug triage
   01:41 seb128     - added an option to network-admin to activate avahi
   01:41 seb128     .
   01:41 seb128     To do:
   01:41 seb128     - mails catching up
   01:41 seb128     - catching up with SoC projects are doing
   01:41 seb128     - lot and lot of bugs to triage
   01:41 seb128     - work on the list of desktop fixes I've noted for dapper-updates and upload some of them
   01:41 seb128     - look at GNOME 2.14.3 updates and what should be uploaded to dappers-updates from it (I still have some 2.14.2 updates on my list too, I gave them some time to get feedback from Debian and upstream before updating)
   01:41 mdz        seb128: ok, I'll watch for the dapper-updates reviews
   01:41 mdz        seb128: thanks
   01:41 mdz        dholbach: next
   01:41 dholbach   Done
   01:41 dholbach       * GNOME 2.15.90
   01:41 dholbach       * uploaded most galago bits to the archive, need to try beagle with them
   01:41 dholbach       * bug triage
   01:41 dholbach       * ubuntu-artwork split
   01:41 dholbach   To do
   01:42 dholbach       * more bug triage
   01:42 dholbach       * do changes to icon page
   01:42 mdz        dholbach: is the artwork split complete?
   01:42 dholbach   yes
   01:42 mdz        ok, great
   01:42 Keybuk     dholbach: do you think next time you upload NEW stuff, you could check the licences out first?
   01:42 dholbach   Keybuk: yes, i try to do better.
   01:42 Keybuk     given I've had to reject the same set of packages from you TWICE now
   01:42 mdz        speaking of NEW stuff, I graphviz-cairo seems to still be in the queue
   01:43 mdz        s/I //
   01:43 mdz        dholbach: thanks
   01:43 mdz        ogra: next
   01:43 ogra       * last-week:
   01:43 ogra       - screensaver transition and some bugfixes
   01:43 ogra       - gnome-power-manager - fiddling with massive upstream codechanges
   01:43 ogra       - finished work on the ppc part of ltsp-daily-image-tarballs (ppc tarballs will be on http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/ltsp-tarballs/ on monday/tuesday and run by cron.daily from then on)
   01:43 ogra       - various bugfixes and small ltsp enhancements (i.e automatically use existing swap partitions on clients, no ssh grief anymore after changing the server IP, popcon support for thin clients in ltsp-build-client)
   01:43 ogra       - moving
   01:43 ogra       * next-week:
   01:43 ogra       - setting up ltsp lab
   01:43 ogra       - starting on thinclient-local-devices
   01:43 ogra       - preparing the next knot ?
   01:43 ogra       - starting on student-control-panel-completion
   01:43 ogra       * specs:
   01:43 ogra       - student-control-panel-completion: (waiting for approval)
   01:44 ogra       - ltsp-daily-image-tarballs: (in progress)
   01:44 ogra       - ltsp-convergence: (no progress)
   01:44 ogra       - ltsp-netboot-enhancement: (no progress)
   01:44 ogra       - thinclient-local-devices (waiting for lab setup, starting next week)
   === Viper550 [n=viper550@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   01:44 mdz        ogra: we need to get your remaining specs through review and onto the edgy list
   01:45 ogra       specs ?
   01:45 ogra       there is only one left
   01:45 mdz        only dhcpd and local-dev are there so far
   01:45 ogra       ltsp-convergence is no spec, but we agreed to track it via LP
   01:45 mdz        ltsp-daily-image-tarballs is Review
   01:46 mdz        wasn't netboot-enhancement marked obsolete?
   === Viper550 [n=viper550@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:46 ogra       hmm ... its done already and will need a xen setup in the DC
   01:46 mdz        xen??
   01:46 ogra       you wanted me to monitor it via LP as well
   01:46 ogra       yes
   01:46 ogra       i cant get root access on the servers :)
   01:46 mdz        ogra: it should get approved and targeted for edgy, yes
   01:46 mdz        ogra: you don't need root; it should work like the livefs builds
   01:46 ogra       so elmo said xen would be the way to go
   01:47 mdz        seems like infrastructure overkill
   01:47 ogra       i need to be able to mount and umount /proc, to debootstrap stuff and to chroot
   01:47 Kamion     uh, unless I'm on crack, the livefs builds run as root on the buildds
   01:47 Mithrandir mdz: the livefs-es quite certainly are built as root.
   01:48 mdz        yes
   01:48 mdz        build runs as root != ogra has root
   01:48 Mithrandir true
   01:48 Kamion     it could be YA buildd special cron job I guess
   01:48 ogra       mdz, its fine to run it at home until the infrastructure is ready and elmo is happy
   01:48 mdz        ogra: don't let it become another hwdb though; it needs to be in the DC for edgy
   01:48 ogra       he said the only opportunities he sees are fakechroot and xen
   01:49 mdz        get the details into the spec and it can be reviewed, approved and targeted
   01:49 ogra       fakechroot cant handle mounting/unmounting proc and has many other issues
   01:49 ogra       ok
   01:49 mdz        ogra: thanks
   01:49 mdz        Keybuk: next
   01:49 Keybuk     Done
   01:49 Keybuk     * Teardown: implemented as specified, there will be ongoing work to remove shutdown scripts from packages not installed by default.
   01:49 Keybuk     * LibAtaForAtaDisks: implemented /etc/fstab migration (in volumeid); implemented resume-from-uuid which we forgot in the spec; grub root= migration.
   01:49 Keybuk       - Needs someone else to do other bootloaders (who knows them, and can test better).
   01:49 Keybuk       - Needs someone who knows them to investigate "special filesystems" (LVM, EVMS, RAID, devmapper, etc.).
   === Viper550 [n=viper550@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   01:49 Keybuk       - Probably also needs mount to be patched to use libvolume_id instead of libblkid so it can support uuids from more filesystems.
   01:49 Keybuk     * ReplacementInit: making progress; debating when is the right time to add this to the archive, as it will not be fit to completely replace /sbin/init for a few weeks yet -- but then maybe this is a development release, so people shouldn't need their machine to boot normally, etc.
   01:50 Keybuk     To do
   01:50 Keybuk     * Spending the week mostly on ReplacementInit and BootMessageLogging
   01:50 mdz        Keybuk: I noticed that the teardown stuff doesn't seem to take effect on upgrades; is that intentional or incompleteness?
   01:50 mdz        mount-by-uuid seems to be working well for me all arround
   01:50 Kamion     I can probably manage to do yaboot on Monday
   01:50 Keybuk     mdz: err, it should take effect
   01:51 Keybuk     I certainly tested that
   01:51 pitti      Keybuk: init-on-crack> would this break booting so hard to become unconfortably unusable?
   01:51 Keybuk     pitti: initially things like runlevels wouldn't work
   01:51 pitti      Keybuk: like, switching between 2 and 3? that shouldn't hurt too much
   01:52 mdz        Keybuk: hmm, maybe it didn't remove as much stuff as I expected
   01:52 pitti      mdz: took effect for me at least
   01:52 pitti      mdz: and I didn't remove anything manually
   01:52 Keybuk     mdz: it's a whitelist removal remember ... so if you have lots of extra crack outside of ubuntu-desktop installed, those won't be removed yet
   01:52 mdz        Keybuk: oh, you only did desktop, not main?
   01:52 Keybuk     mdz: right
   01:52 fabbione   Keybuk: didn't you use to call them "fabbione filesystems" :P
   01:52 Keybuk     see "there will be ongoing work to remove shutdown scripts from packages not installed by default."
   01:53 Keybuk     fabbione: I only call them that when you're not in earshot <g>
   01:53 fabbione   Keybuk: ROFL
   01:53 mdz        Keybuk: ok, thanks
   01:53 mdz        Keybuk: it would be nice if update-rc.d just did the right thing
   01:54 mdz        pitti: next
   01:54 Keybuk     mdz: that would break things
   01:54 pitti      Done:
   01:54 pitti      * security updates: php, mysql, firefox, mozilla, thunderbird, heartbeat, ruby1.8, freetype; this took the majority of my time this week
   01:54 pitti      * heavy edgy cups bug fixing and improvements
   01:54 pitti      * prepared cups 1.2.2 for dapper
   01:54 pitti      * gave MOTU school seminar about patching source packages; got great appreciation
   01:54 pitti      * automated-problem-reports:
   01:54 Kamion     it would also be nice if update-rc.d could do the removals rather than having to do rm -f; I got a bug in Debian from a file-rc user about that
   01:54 pitti        * completed packaging of the backend
   01:54 mdz        Keybuk: I don't see a problem with following the "if you didn't change it from the defaults, we update your config" approach
   01:54 pitti        * created a reasonably usable GTK frontend (thanks to mvo for his suggestions and help!), uploaded new version
   01:54 pitti        * backend is BLOCKED: needs changed kernel implementation of crash dump helper calling
   01:54 pitti      * finally caught up on bug mail
   01:54 pitti      * looked at the mysterious Heisenbug'ish apt-ftparchive failure on the daily langpacks several times, stared at straces, etc; I have absolutely no clue about this; help greatly appreciated
   01:54 mdz        Kamion: that's what I meant
   01:54 pitti      To Do:
   01:54 pitti      * talk with infinity about deploying pkg-create-dbgsym (so that I can watch FTBFSes caused by this and fix them)
   01:54 pitti      * automated-problem-reports: fix some bugs, some improvements, discuss Qt frontend with KDE guys; find some people to HIGify my crappy UI design :)
   01:54 pitti      * more pending security updates
   01:54 pitti      * interview security engineer applicants
   01:54 pitti      (sorry, long vehicle, but it was a busy week)
   01:55 Keybuk     mdz: agree
   01:55 mdz        Keybuk: by DTRT I mean update the symlinks on upgrades if they haven't been touched
   01:55 Keybuk     but *-rc.d are broken by design anyway *sigh*
   01:55 mdz        it's silly to have to modify maintainer scripts for that
   01:55 mvo        pitti: what is this about apt-ftparchive? can we talk about this off-meeting?
   01:55 mdz        pitti: is the MOTU school stuff published in UWN?  please submit it if it isn't there already
   01:55 mdz        a link to the log or something
   01:56 mdz        maybe encourage somebody to write it up as a tutorial
   01:56 mdz        pitti: is the kernel bit a BenC item?
   01:56 pitti      mvo: tomorrow? I'd appreciate that
   01:56 pitti      mdz: yes
   01:56 dholbach   mdz: LaserJock already volunteered
   01:56 mdz        pitti: ok, he'll be back Monday
   01:56 pitti      mdz: uwn> not yet submitted, will do
   01:56 mvo        pitti: sure
   01:56 pitti      mdz: it's already a wiki page
   01:57 mdz        pitti: great
   01:57 pitti      I'll brush it up a little bit
   01:57 mdz        pitti: thanks
   01:57 mdz        have I missed anyone?
   === dholbach hugs pitti
   01:57 ogra       LaserJock is currently looking for stuff he can add to the packaging guide :)
   01:57 mdz        speaking of UWN, it'd be a good idea to add an "edgy update" section and for all of us to add bits there as interesting things land
   01:57 ogra       so the motu school stuff will show up there in some form
   01:58 Riddell    UWN seems to still be in the mailman queue from last week
   01:58 Riddell    is someone taking over from jdub on the mailing lists?
   01:58 mdz        Riddell: gar, I added matt galvin to the whitelist so he wouldn't get moderated
   01:58 Keybuk     Riddell: which mailing lists?
   01:58 Riddell    Keybuk: ubuntu-news in this case
   01:59 mdz        have done the same for whomever sent #7 now
   01:59 mdz        I'm not taking over but I have privileges to clean up messes
   02:00 mdz        mako is the moderator of that list, from back when he did traffic
   02:00 Burgwork   mdz, I can take over the mailing list
   02:00 Burgwork   lists, rather
   02:00 mdz        Burgwork: done and done
   02:00 mdz        Burgwork: email address?
   02:00 Burgwork   corey.burger@gmail.com
   02:00 Amaranth   woohoo
   02:00 mdz        Burgwork: preferably your ubuntu.com address
   02:00 Burgwork   corey.burger@ubuntu.com
   02:01 mdz        changed
   02:01 mdz        ok, out of time
   02:01 mdz        thanks, everyone
   02:01 mdz        adjourned
   02:01 Mithrandir 'night.
   02:01 dholbach   thanks everyone
   02:01 mdz        good night
   02:01 dholbach   good night
   02:01 ogra       thanks mdz
   02:01 seb128     night
   02:01 rodarvus   good night
   02:01 mvo        night
   02:01 pitti      thanks all
   02:01 pitti      sleep well everyone
  
</pre>
