{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
{{{
17:00	heno	#startmeeting
17:01	heno	... :( no bot
17:01	james_w	I have something small to mention related to last week's meeting if you would give me a minute or two at the end.
17:01	heno	As stated the agenda is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
17:01	heno	james_w: sure
17:02	heno	topic: UDS topics - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/UdsPrague
17:02	heno	There are still a few open slots in the schedule
17:02	heno	so please suggest topics
17:02	heno	(esp. if you will be present)
17:03	ogasawara	heno:  can we just add suggestions to the wiki and you'll work out the scheduling?
* stgraber waves
17:04	heno	I'll add a session about coherence in the use of LP as dholbach suggested
17:04	heno	hey stgraber
17:04	heno	ogasawara: it helps if you email me a reminder too
17:05	ogasawara	heno: ok will do, thanks.
17:05	heno	we can also schedule topics quite informally for FOSSCamp
17:05	stgraber	QA Tracker / QA Portal and Ubuntu Brainstorm stuff will have to be done at FOSSCamp
17:06	stgraber	also the Ubuntu package website stuff mvo asked for
17:06	heno	indeed. in fact we should split up that list in two parts
17:06	heno	mvo: will you be at FOSSCamp?
17:06	stgraber	he'll
17:07	heno	ok, thanks :)
17:07	heno	next
17:07	stgraber	jcastro sent the full list of attendees yesterday
17:07	heno	Mobile testing - the UME team could use some help with testing.
17:08	heno	I've sent an appeal to planet http://blog.omma.net/?p=8
17:08	pedro_	I've just added one topic
17:08	mvo	I played with the mobile stuff a bit and a big problem seems to be that test images are hard to find (and/or not available)
17:08	heno	pedro_: great, thanks
* mvo will be at fosscamp
17:09	cgregan	The ones we are worried about are here: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/hardy/menlow/
17:09	heno	mvo: are these no good http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/hardy/menlow ?
17:10	heno	It's linked from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UMEinstall but could perhaps be more prominent?
17:10	cgregan	I could also link from Project Page in LP?
17:10	mvo	will that work on any hardware ? I heard (maybe wrong) that it requires recent intel chiptsets
17:11	cgregan	Unless you have a Samsung Q1 you will need to use Xephyr
* mvo nods
17:11	cgregan	The steps are in the wiki
=== vuntz_ is now known as vuntz
17:12	mvo	I wonder if it would be possible to produce images that can be booted into via e.g. kvm and that are ready made - so that a test would only require a system with kvm and a download.
17:12	mvo	but this is probably out of scope for now (and for this meeting) :)
17:12	cgregan	lool is actually working on that
17:12	heno	It is a good point actually
17:13	mvo	it just crosssed my mind today when I setup a environement to test some hildon stuff
17:13	heno	A direct kvm image is proving tricky but what about a barebones ubuntu system + xephyr in full screen mode as a kvm image?
17:14	mvo	yeah, I talked to him about it. I think it would be a great help already to just have a manually build kvm image (with ubuntu-vm-builder) so that people can quickly port stuff to hildon/mobile (or just check what it looks like)
17:14	cgregan	I agree
17:14	jcastro	yes I was just going to say a flag in ubuntu-vm-builder would be great
17:14	mvo	that sounds fine as well
17:14	mvo	(what are the tricky bits with a direct kvm image? sorry I'm a bit ignorant about the finer details)
17:15	cgregan	We want to ditch Xephyr as soon as possible since you run as root
17:15	mvo	lpia support was added to it (u-m-b) by lool and is in bzr already
17:15	heno	but root in a dedicated vm is not so bad (as a short term testing alternative anyway)
17:16	cgregan	heno: I agree, but since you need MIC to manage the images anyway and Xephyr is built in..we did not create a VM with Xephyr
17:17	cgregan	It is possible though
17:17	mvo	could we plug a additional backend to the m-i-c so that it produces kvm images as a additional "device" ?
17:18	heno	(MIC = Moblin Image Creator, btw)
17:18	cgregan	mvo: I think that is what lool is working on...a script that can be run to kvm-ize a UME build
17:19	cgregan	We also want to ditch MIC as soon as we can too...so very little is being integrated or changed there
17:20	cgregan	heno: thanks..forgot not all have heard of this thing! :-)
17:20	heno	I'll have a go a creating a bastardised Xephyr based VM image
17:20	heno	ok, next
17:21	heno	The next meeting would normally be next Wednesday
17:21	heno	but several of us will be travelling
17:21	heno	can we move it to Tuesday same time?
17:22	heno	or 16.00 UTC even?
17:22	pedro_	1900 UTC right?
17:22	pedro_	both are ok for me
17:22	heno	either works for me
17:22	stgraber	date and time work for me
17:22	heno	slight preference for 16.00 perhaps
17:22	ogasawara	I'd prefer 16.00 if possible
17:23	bdmurray	1600 is fine here
17:23	stgraber	ok, so Tuesday 16:00 ?
17:23	pedro_	let's go for it then ;-)
17:23	heno	great!
17:23	cgregan	heno: we would run over our talk, but otherwise is ok
17:23	heno	I'll mail the list about the change
17:23	pedro_	ok I'm updating the wiki page now
17:23	heno	cgregan: we can perhaps move that
17:24	cgregan	Sure...anytime after 1600 is good
17:24	heno	I'm actually not really at work on Tuesday anyway
17:24	heno	james_w: can we have your topic?
17:24	james_w	sure, it's a quick one.
17:25	james_w	I saw at the last meeting you were outlining some new QA Team Roles.
17:25	james_w	I mentioned these to someone, and she pointed out that the forums feedback coordinator role had a lot of overlap with the mission of the forum ambassadors
17:26	james_w	she said the later project is not that active currently, but it may be somewhere to find interested people.
17:27	heno	james_w: indeed. I think the ambassadors project could benefit from well-focused missions like this one
17:27	heno	I think one reason it didn't take root was that it was too broad
17:28	james_w	cool, I just wanted to bring it up. Thanks for your time.
17:28	heno	I'll mention it for a few people I know who are involved in the ambassadors project
17:28	heno	thanks james_w
17:28	heno	any other topics?
17:29	stgraber	nope
17:29	heno	right, thanks everyone!
17:29	pedro_	thanks
17:29	heno	#endmeeting}}}
