{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=06&day=10&year=2013&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jun 10th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Christian Kuersteiner (ckuerste) provided debdiffs for lucid-precise for xml-light (LP: #1186860). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** catchup from vacation
** patch pilot
** embargoed update
** various reviews and coordination surrounding application isolation, scopes and click packages
** preliminary install audit of the phablet image
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** install Ubuntu on nexus 4
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** sdk blueprint stuff
*** easyprof policy uploaded to dbus-dev ppa, along with the calculator and calendar app
*** working on json input to easyprof 
*** will also work on debhelper bits
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** finalize dbus policy
*** start working on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/client-1305-content-mgmt-picking
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
*** !AppArmor patch review
*** pending updates
** chrisccoulson
** weekly role: happy place
** embargoed update
** finished off fleshing out the architecture for our chromium embedding api
** local branch to hack on chromium embedding api
** continuing work on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/client-1303-webkit-maintenance/
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-06-10-16.33.html
