{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=11&day=07&year=2011&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Nov 7th 2011 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* micahg
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* kees

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Team attended UDS last week. It was a very busy week and we have a lot to do. For details, see http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-p and our blueprints at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu?searchtext=security-p
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** pending updates
** email
** merges
** patch pilot
** UDS aftermath
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: community
** pending updates
** UDS aftermath (go through blueprints and prioritizing work items)
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** post-UDS organization
** micahg
** short week
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates for mozilla and chromium
** investigate upstream reported issue
** post-UDS organization
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** test pending ecryptfs fixes
** finish community sponsoring from last week
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** kernel workflow learning
** email backlog
** !AppArmor mailing list follow-ups
** policy stacking in !AppArmor (for LXC/DBus mediation)
** post-UDS organization
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** mdeslaur brought up topic of work items
** this week we'll be going through the blueprints to 1- assign work items, 2- prioritize work items
** asked team to go through blueprints and create work items by Wednesday
** micahg brought up md5 warnings in alphas. This will be discussed with other work items
** broder mentioned the backports team is now generating reports for backports superseded by security updates
** backports team is discussing updated policy around security updates in backports

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-11-07-18.16.moin.txt
