{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Server FAQ =====

sommer did more updates to the questions. The remaining answers to be filled are for the questions that have been added to the FAQ.

ACTION: mathiaz to add a section about updating the ServerFAQ to the Roadmap

ACTION: kirkland to review the RAID related questions

===== Update ServerGuide for Jaunty =====

sommer created <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyServerGuide |a blueprint]]</nowiki> for the Ubuntu Server Guide. Suggestions for improvement should be added to the wiki page. One suggestion was to split the ubuntu server guide into its own source package (the server guide already has its own binary package). This change should be discussed with the Documentation team first.

ACTION: sommer to start a discussion with the documentation team about creating a separate source package and bzr branch for the server guide.

===== Ubuntu Server survey =====

nijaba announced that the Ubuntu Server survey had been closed. He is working on extracting the data and remove all the private information. The final stats are 6844 responses (4144 full responses, 2700 responses not completely filled out). The stats should be available in csv format in a bzr branch.

===== Jaunty specs =====

mathiaz announced that the schedule for the next UDS is being worked on. Blueprints should be registered in Launchpad and targeted to jaunty. The approver should be set to Rick Clark (dendrobates) and the ubuntu-server team should be subscribed to the blueprint.

===== Graphical interface for the Server installer =====

cjwatson reported that he had been working on getting the GTK installer frontend up and running for the Ubuntu Server installer.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, November 25th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:00. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:00] <zul> as the world turns
[16:01] <Koon> yay
[16:01] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:01] <soren> o/
[16:01] <mathiaz> anyone that wants to add a point, let me know
[16:02] <mathiaz> Last meeting minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20081111
[16:02] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Server FAQ
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server FAQ
[16:02] <mathiaz> nijaba: sommer: how is this going?
[16:02] <sommer> more updates... I think just the new questions need adding
[16:03]  * kirkland is, again, delinquent on his server FAQ update :-/
[16:03]  * nijaba has been buried...
[16:03]  * mathiaz will update the roadmap too
[16:03] <mathiaz> sommer: great.
[16:03] <mathiaz> sommer: I thought nijaba had added a list of new questions?
[16:04] <mathiaz> sommer: are there other questions you thought about?
[16:04] <sommer> mathiaz: yes, they just need to be answered :)
[16:04] <nijaba> I think sommer says that the new questions now needs answers
[16:04] <mathiaz> oh - ok.
[16:04] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to add a section about updating the ServerFAQ to the Roadmap
[16:04] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to add a section about updating the ServerFAQ to the Roadmap
[16:05] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to review the RAID related questions
[16:05] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to review the RAID related questions
[16:05] <mathiaz> sommer: nijaba: anything else?
[16:05] <kirkland> yup
[16:05] <nijaba> nope
[16:05] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Get rid of old libdb versions
[16:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Get rid of old libdb versions
[16:05] <sommer> mathiaz: don't think so
[16:05] <mathiaz> zul: ^^?
[16:05] <zul> mathiaz: roadmap has been updated
[16:06] <mathiaz> zul: I think you've gone through the list
[16:06] <zul> the ones there have to be updated
[16:06] <mathiaz> sommer: nijaba: thanks for updating the FAQ
[16:06] <mathiaz> zul: ok - great.
[16:07] <sommer> mathiaz: np
[16:08] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Update ServerGuide for Jaunty
[16:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Update ServerGuide for Jaunty
[16:08] <mathiaz> sommer: how is the spec going on?
[16:08] <jjesse> sommer: i can help out with the server guide again
[16:08] <sommer> mathiaz: it's started, and I created a blueprint as well
[16:08] <jjesse> sommer: do you have a link for the spec so i can subscribe?
[16:08] <sommer> jjesse: that'd be awesome :)
[16:08] <sommer> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyServerGuide
[16:09] <jjesse> subscribed
[16:10] <sommer> if there are any other sections that anyone can think of feel free to add them, to the spec or the idea pool
[16:10] <mathiaz> sommer: looks promising.
[16:10] <mathiaz> sommer: spliting in its own package -> may be worth looking into a bzr branch
[16:11] <mathiaz> sommer: but that may require some coordination with the documentation team regarding the tool chain to build the documentation.
[16:12] <sommer> mathiaz: sure, I can contact mdke about it
[16:12] <sommer> or anyone else who's familiar with the process :)
[16:12] <mathiaz> sommer: what's the rationale to split the server guide into its own package?
[16:12] <jjesse> sommer: nixternal would be familiar with it as well and oculd help out, he builds the kubuntu-docs package
[16:12] <mathiaz> sommer: I guess by package you meant source package
[16:13] <mathiaz> sommer: as it already has its own binary package
[16:13] <sommer> mathiaz: ya, wasn't it discussed for intrepid... to ease contribution
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: exact.
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: but the bzr branch for the ubuntu-doc team was trimmed down during the intrepid release cycle.
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: it's faster to create a branch now.
[16:15] <mathiaz> sommer: anyhow, I'll ask the doc team about it.
[16:15] <mathiaz> sommer: I'd come up with a reason for the source package split.
[16:15] <mathiaz> sommer: there may be good reason to keep it in the ubuntu-doc package.
[16:15] <mathiaz> sommer: I'm thinking about translations.
[16:16] <sommer> mathiaz: sounds good to me
[16:16] <mathiaz> sommer: but I'm not too familiar with this process.
[16:16] <mathiaz> sommer: could you start a dicussion on the ubuntu-doc mailing list?
[16:16] <sommer> mathiaz: sure
[16:16] <mathiaz> sommer: awesome. Thanks!
[16:17] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to start a disucssion with the documentation team about creating a separate source package and bzr branch for the server guide
[16:17] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to start a disucssion with the documentation team about creating a separate source package and bzr branch for the server guide
[16:17] <mathiaz> sommer: anything else related to documentation?
[16:17] <sommer> mathiaz: I think that's it
[16:18] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Merges and init script
[16:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  Merges and init script
[16:18] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^
[16:18] <kirkland> yep
[16:18] <kirkland> i still need to update that wiki page
[16:18] <kirkland> i'll do that this week
[16:18] <kirkland> with the current state of Jaunty init/status scripts
[16:18] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok.
[16:18] <kirkland> cheers to Koon who's adding them in his package merges
[16:19] <kirkland> \o/
[16:19] <Koon> \o/
[16:19] <kirkland> that's all i have
[16:19] <mathiaz> great. Let's move on.
[16:19] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server survey
[16:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server survey
[16:19] <mathiaz> nijaba: ^?
[16:19] <Koon> mergers should also push TearDown where appropriate
[16:20] <mathiaz> Koon: by push you mean that the TearDown changes should be send to Debian?
[16:20] <nijaba> mathiaz: I have made an extract of the data.  I now need to remove all private info from it
[16:20] <mathiaz> nijaba: cool. What the final stats?
[16:20] <mathiaz> nijaba: cool. What are the final stats?
[16:20] <nijaba> Some people within Canonical think we should let the survey run a couple more month
[16:20] <Koon> no, I meant implement TearDown spec in the merge if it's not done yet -- if you do it, then you should also push it to Debian.
[16:20] <MTecknology> nijaba: where's the survey at?
[16:21] <nijaba> they want to adwvertise it on u.c home page
[16:21] <nijaba> MTecknology: to take it?  survey.ubuntu.com
[16:21] <mathiaz> Koon: so Debian accepted the technical implementation of the TearDown spec?
[16:21] <MTecknology> crap... i forgot how to do math :P
[16:22] <mathiaz> nijaba: once you've got the anonymized data, what's the process to get access to it?
[16:22] <Koon> mathiaz: james_w discussed it on debian-devel, without any real opposition
[16:22] <nijaba> stat are 6844 responses for this survey (4144 full responses, 2700 responses not completely filled out)
[16:23] <mathiaz> nijaba: once you've got the anonymized data, what's the process to get access to it?
[16:24] <nijaba> mathiaz: I think I'll just put the csv in bzr
[16:24] <nijaba> as I did for the question
[16:24] <mathiaz> nijaba: IIRC we discussed who would get access to it
[16:24] <nijaba> so that people running analysis on it can publish back results
[16:25] <mathiaz> nijaba: is this still relevant or you wanna have an open policy about it?
[16:25] <nijaba> well, I think having a private team for the analysis would be more appropriate
[16:25] <nijaba> but I am not sure how we can set on up in Launchpad
[16:26] <mathiaz> nijaba: ok. Let's discuss this later.
[16:27] <mathiaz> That's all for last week's minutes.
[16:27] <mathiaz> Anything else to add related to last week's minutes?
[16:28] <mathiaz> seems not. Let's move on.
[16:28] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Jaunty specs
[16:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Jaunty specs
[16:29] <MTecknology> hey... The survey - there's no 8.10 option
[16:29] <mathiaz> so we're all getting prepared for UDS and started to write up spec for it.
[16:30] <nijaba> MTecknology: indeed, it was launched before the release of intrepid
[16:30] <jjesse> i noticed there are hardly any specs targeted for jaunty yet
[16:30]  * kirkland has a few specs already
[16:30]  * nijaba too
[16:31] <kirkland> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-jaunty
[16:31] <kirkland> there's a growing number there
[16:31] <jjesse> wow changed from earlier this week
[16:31]  * nxvl hasn't write anything :(
[16:31] <nxvl> i should write the augeas spec
[16:31]  * kirkland added: 1) encrypted-home-directory, 2) encrypted-swap-by-default, 3) power-capping, 4) server-suspend-hibernate
[16:32] <mathiaz> right - so if you register a new blueprint, target it for Jaunty so that it's considered for the next UDS
[16:32] <nxvl> kirkland: and what happend with file swap?
[16:32] <mathiaz> and also subscribe the ubuntu-server team so that we can track which specs may be or interest to the server team community.
[16:32] <kirkland> nxvl: that one is still there, from last UDS
[16:32] <mathiaz> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/
[16:32] <kirkland> nxvl: encrypted swap is more important to me, for now though
[16:33] <sommer> mathiaz: should we set the approver to dendrobates as well?
[16:33] <mathiaz> sommer: yes.
[16:33] <sommer> cool, thought I'd double check
[16:34] <MTecknology> gtg - sorry to cut it short here
[16:34] <nxvl> kirkland: fair enough
[16:34] <MTecknology> fyi - When I encrypt any part of a syste, I just make an encrypted partition, put lvm on it, and then put /, swap, and /home on it
[16:35] <MTecknology> just wanted to throw it out there - ttyal
[16:35] <mathiaz> ok - that's all for the specs for the next UDS
[16:36] <mathiaz> dump your ideas on a wiki page, register a blueprint and subscribe the ubuntu-server team to it
[16:36] <mathiaz> so that we're all notified and can give feedback
[16:36] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Merges
[16:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Merges
[16:37] <mathiaz> Merging is in full swing now.
[16:37] <mathiaz> I've published a list of easy merges and put it on the Roadmpa.
[16:37] <Koon> I did pure-ftpd, I'll update the list.
[16:37] <mathiaz> I'll try to keep it up-to-date on a weekly basis.
[16:37] <mathiaz> Koon: awesome!
[16:38] <mathiaz> If someone does one of them, updating the wiki page is welcome
[16:40] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open discussio
[16:40] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open discussio
[16:40] <mathiaz> Anyone wants to add anything?
[16:40] <mathiaz> now is the time
[16:41] <sommer> is a "ubuntu directory server" still in the works for jaunty
[16:41] <nijaba> sommer: that's one of the proposals we have, yes
[16:41] <sommer> or worked on for jaunty... now that cn=config has been implemented
[16:41] <mathiaz> sommer: yes. That's the next step.
[16:42] <sommer> okay, I was just thinking about it the other day
[16:43] <mathiaz> sommer: There isn't a specific blueprint for now.
[16:43] <mathiaz> sommer: you may wanna keep your ideas written somewhere.
[16:43] <cjwatson> I'm working on getting the GTK installer frontend up and running at the moment
[16:43] <cjwatson> so there should be plenty of time for interested folks to play with that pre-UDS
[16:44] <cjwatson> it's been in Debian for quite a while; I only recently heard that we actually wanted it in Ubuntu though
[16:44] <sommer> cjwatson: cool, do you have a link to the code?
[16:44] <kirkland> cjwatson: cool, we took a look at it last week
[16:44] <nijaba> cjwatson: \o/
[16:44] <cjwatson> sommer: archive.ubuntu.com
[16:44] <cjwatson> sommer: nothing new, it's all been there for some time, this is just the assembly
[16:45] <sommer> ah gotcha
[16:46] <sommer> that's all I had :)
[16:47] <mathiaz> ok. great.
[16:48] <mathiaz> anything else?
[16:52] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:52] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:52] <mathiaz> same time, same place, next week?
[16:52] <nijaba> yep!!!
[16:53] <Koon> sure thing.
[16:53] <sommer> o//
[16:54] <mathiaz> great. See you all next week, same time, same place.
[16:54] <mathiaz> And happy merging until then!
[16:54] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[16:54] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:54.
</pre>
