{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
05:06	jono	right LoCo meeting
05:06	nixternal	they are crazy...your butt goes numb waiting :)
05:06	jono	who is here for the loco meeting?
05:07	looksaus	me...
05:07	elkbuntu	me
05:07	looksaus	:)
05:07	technolalia	and me
05:07	craigaa	me
05:07	nixternal	i guess i am now that i am awake
=== JanC is
05:07	Kuyaedz	me
=== pschulz01 [n=paul@202.174.42.5] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
05:07	MagicFab	me
05:07	thoreauputic	bimberi has suggested that applicants and speakers should go in time-zone order - seems a good idea to me
05:07	Ekushey	me too
05:07	nixternal	jeesh
05:07	jono	the LoCo army steps forth :)
05:07	nixternal	no doubt
05:07	craigaa	looks like a good turnout
05:07	bimberi	yes, i've emailed the CC list
05:07	Ekushey	:)
=== MagicFab for Ubuntu-QC and Ubuntu-CO
05:07	nixternal	seems teh chicago guys are sleeping off last nights big win on monday night football still
05:08	nixternal	that or they have a life and are at work right now
05:08	Kuyaedz	nixternal: there is life outside ubuntu? ;)
05:08	nixternal	so i have heard
05:08	jono	ok see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamMeeting
05:08	jono	thats our agenda
05:08	jono	first is docs
05:08	nixternal	wo0t..
05:08	jono	I will explain my thoughts on this
05:08	nixternal	jono: if you need doc help, im here for ya
05:09	jono	nixternal, :)
05:09	nixternal	since i do edubuntu, kubuntu, ubuntu, ichthux, and kde docs, i can fit ya in
=== sivang is here
=== geser [n=michael@dialin110148.justdsl.de] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
05:09	jono	as many of you have seen, I have revamped the LoCo pages a bit, and produced the FAQ updated the HOWTO and other things
=== jsgotangco is here
05:09	sivang	hi jono
05:09	jono	I think we need to focus the LoCo teams to get lots more written
05:09	jono	hey siccness
05:09	jono	oops
05:09	jono	hey sivang
05:09	jono	:)
05:09	sivang	heh
=== Belutz [n=belutz@ubuntu/member/belutz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:10	jono	I think we need all aspects of running a team documented where possible
05:10	nixternal	jsgotangco: missed a hell of a bears game last night :)
05:10	jono	so, I was thinking we should have a LoCo Doc Day
05:10	nixternal	good idea
05:10	siccness	hmm?
05:10	jono	pick a day and everyone write a bunch of docs
=== rejden back
05:10	technolalia	what docs do the loco teams need?
05:10	Belutz	I'm back
05:10	looksaus	technolalia, how do I organise a computer fair booth
05:10	jono	technolalia, how to run a team, common questions, dealing with problems, leadership issues, loco structure etc
05:10	jono	the docs need to be best practice
05:11	looksaus	could be a nice subject
05:11	jono	looksaus, exactly
05:11	jono	to best manage this I was gonna propose a call for ideas and we can go from there
05:11	jono	today I just wanted to mainly set a date
05:11	rejden	would be good, if we can follow some template
05:11	nixternal	if anyone is interested http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/styleguide/en/index.html there is the ubuntu documentation styling guide...a little outdated, but has some good information in it, to help keep consistancy
05:11	lophyte	ooo, loco meeting started
05:11	lophyte	heya all :)
05:11	jono	I was thinking of Fri 27th
05:11	looksaus	lophyte, yes, you just missed pschulz01
=== ryu [n=chris@unaffiliated/ryu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== BurnerR [n=bernard@dslb-084-062-035-099.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== culix [n=culix@unaffiliated/culix] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
05:12	jono	so is the 27th oct good for you folks?
05:13	MagicFab	jono: great work on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
=== phanatic [n=phanatic@ubuntu/member/phanatic] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:13	elkbuntu	not for me personally
05:13	jono	MagicFab, thanks :)
05:13	lophyte	works for me, jono
=== BurnerR [n=bernard@dslb-084-062-035-099.pools.arcor-ip.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
05:13	JanC	jono: I think a 1 day event will never fit everybody ?
05:13	Kuyaedz	no objections here
05:13	Belutz	sorry, what's on 27th oct ?
05:13	MagicFab	jono, may I suggest new Loco teams should be presented here before going to the CC ?
=== cbx33 [n=pete@ubuntu/member/cbx33] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:13	jono	MagicFab, we will discuss that in a sec
05:13	jono	Belutz, loco docs day
05:13	elkbuntu	MagicFab, how about you wait
05:13	nixternal	27th == LoCo Doc Day, 28th == Ubuntu Chicago Conference, 29th == CoDLUG Conference....all of which i am documenting....that will be one heck of a weekend ;) <-- winky
05:13	jono	ok how about Tues 31st?
05:13	MagicFab	ok
05:14	nixternal	ooh, the 31st sounds swell
05:14	jono	I think it would be good to get elkbuntu there
05:14	Belutz	jono, ah i see
05:14	lophyte	31st works too.
05:14	jono	wickeeed :)
05:14	jono	ok I will mail loco-contacts about this later
05:14	rejden	sorry, 28 - 31 days off
05:14	elkbuntu	jono, you're picking bad dates for me :(
05:14	jono	elkbuntu, oh really?
05:14	jono	bugger
05:14	jono	elkbuntu, when are goo ddates?
05:15	jono	elkbuntu, when are good dates?
05:15	craigaa	no date will work for everyone, we just need to find one that suits most
05:15	lophyte	I'm flexible.. any date works for me, really
05:15	elkbuntu	jono, the time is more to the point of my flexibility
=== jenda missed the meeting...
05:15	jono	sure, but I think elkbuntu is such a prominant member that the first event should really have a bunch of prominant members there to be a success
05:15	jenda	are there minutes?
05:15	jono	ok, well lets stick with the 31st for now
05:16	jono	we can arrange more in the future
05:16	jono	ok with everyone?
05:16	elkbuntu	yes
05:16	Kuyaedz	weekends work best for me for getting results, no pesky work to distract me.
05:16	lophyte	yup
05:16	JanC	jono: why not invite people to write such docs, and then if we have some pick a date to enhance them ?
05:16	jono	jenda, CC meeting?
05:16	Kuyaedz	yes
05:16	technolalia	31st is okay for me
05:16	craigaa	works for me
05:16	jenda	jono: both :)
05:16	jenda	jono: But I meant the LoCo.
05:16	jono	JanC,  I think we need a data to encourage people to begin writing docs, but I see your point :)
05:17	jono	jenda, we just started this meeting
05:17	jenda	ah ok :)
05:17	jenda	In that case, jono, I will miss it :-D
05:17	jono	another point to discuss, not on the agenda, are regular meetings
05:17	jono	I am thinking we should back this slot every two weeks
05:17	lophyte	agreed
05:17	jono	but adjust the time of the meeting to hit the right timezones
05:17	jenda	agreed.
05:17	lophyte	every two weeks is good
05:17	elkbuntu	jono, i think it also needs to be before the CC, not after it :)
05:18	lophyte	haha
05:18	craigaa	lol
05:18	jono	elkbuntu, hehe yeag
05:18	jono	yeah
05:18	jenda	(It'll be hard to find timezones for a group that is by definition evenly spread around the world.
05:18	jenda	)
05:18	elkbuntu	jenda, we decided in first meeting to alternate focus
05:18	jono	jenda, sure, so I was thinking of very early GMT and late GMT
05:18	Kuyaedz	two weeks is fine, just be sure to update us on the mailing list on the times
05:18	jono	that should be convenient for *most*
05:18	Belutz	for the timezones, why don't just rotate it?
05:18	jono	Kuyaedz, sure
05:18	craigaa	yes
05:19	nixternal	i am awake all hours of the day...i goto bed when the UTC strikes work time, and I wake up when the UTC get off of work :)
05:19	jenda	jono: yes, that seems to have proven best for other meetings too.
05:19	craigaa	I would then be able to make one meeting every four weeks
05:19	jono	yeah
05:19	craigaa	if we alternate timeframes
05:19	jono	so we can flick between the two times and everyone gets a meeting a month
05:19	rejden	in favor for rotating timezones
05:19	jono	I, get late nights and early mornings :P
05:19	lophyte	I think that works best
05:19	jenda	Is there a meeting agenda somewhere? (Sorry for ignorance)
05:19	elkbuntu	that was the plan. then you went on holidays :)
05:19	looksaus	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamMeeting
05:19	jono	jenda, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamMeeting
05:20	jono	looksaus, beat me to it :P
=== elkbuntu mutters something about lucky. ...
05:20	jono	elkbuntu, eh?
05:20	jenda	thx
05:20	elkbuntu	jono, your frolic in florida
05:20	jono	hehe
05:20	elkbuntu	aaanyway
05:21	jono	ok, so thats cool we have a docs day sorted and regular meetings
05:21	jono	any other comments or views?
05:21	Kuyaedz	making better time than the CC meeting ;)
05:21	jenda	hehe
05:21	craigaa	:-)
05:21	jono	yes, I am keen to keep everything on track and zip through stuff where needed
05:21	jenda	This time is perfect for me, except there happens to be a conference today I want to attend.
=== ondrej [n=ondrej@ubuntu/member/ondrej] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:22	jono	ok lets talk edgy CDs
=== lbm [n=lbm@82.192.173.92] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:22	jono	let me fill you in with the Canonical situation
05:22	elkbuntu	jenda, you're excused so long as you pass out ubuntu cds :)
05:22	rejden	so what is the proposal?
05:22	jenda	elkbuntu: indeed :) Fortunately, ondrej has just joined for the Czech team too.
05:22	jono	*all* approved teams will get a mix of 500 Edgy CDs
05:23	jono	that is the stock number of CDs planned to be sent out to teams
05:23	rejden	mix, means ku and edubuntu included as well?
05:23	Ekushey	jono: ubuntu-bd is *half* approved for now. will we get it too?
05:23	Belutz	jono: variant and platform mix?
05:23	jono	Ubuntu:
05:23	jono	PC    300
05:23	jono	AMD64 50
05:23	jono	Kubuntu:
05:23	jono	PC    75
05:23	jono	AMD64 25
05:23	jono	Edubuntu:
05:23	jono	PC    50
05:24	jono	Ekushey, we can discuss that later, we can arrange something I am sure :)
05:24	looksaus	jono, and how about Dapper shipments?
05:24	JanC	nu PowerPC ?
05:24	elkbuntu	no ppc?
05:24	lophyte	Dapper is through shipit.
05:24	jono	dapper is still done via shipit
05:24	MagicFab	jono: won't that make several teams rush to be approved ? i see the backlog :)
05:24	looksaus	because I got a bit confused
=== lupine_85 [n=lupine@nick.lupine.me.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:24	ondrej	while we are here...  is somebody here who could pay for ubuntu.cz domain name?  seems mail with invoice got lost and ubuntu.cz payment is due
05:24	looksaus	oh, k, wasn't clear to me
05:24	Ekushey	jono: ok, thanks
05:24	jono	more on the backlog later :P
05:24	rejden	would be possible to get some edgy PPC as well somehow?
05:24	rejden	like 20 or something
05:24	jono	now this is the dilemma:
05:25	jono	(rejden, not sure about PPC CDs btw)
05:25	craigaa	is it possible to customise for each team?
05:25	rejden	same question as craigaa
05:25	jono	we want to get details from all those teams who want CDs but we don't want stacks and stack of seperate emails
=== siccness [n=siccness@CPE-138-217-2-31.vic.bigpond.net.au] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
05:25	jono	naturally though, most teams won't want to update a wiki page with their postal address
05:25	jsgotangco	brb
05:26	jenda	jono, understandable... but how do that?
05:26	jono	so I have been trying to figure something out, but I think mailing in will be the only way
05:26	jono	there seems no clear and simple solution
05:26	jenda	jono, perhaps a private, passworded gobby session would work :)
05:26	looksaus	jono, I'm not sure we even _want_ edgy CD's...
05:26	Mirv	should gpg be required?
05:26	rejden	yes, mailing seems the only way, or web formular and mailing from it
05:26	jono	so I am gonna talk to Marilize and figure out something
05:26	elkbuntu	jono, i'd volunteer to be victim of the emails and collate the information
05:26	rejden	looksaus, maybe you don't need
05:26	jono	looksaus, not all teams will want them, thats why people will request them
05:26	Belutz	are stickers also included? :)
05:26	Mirv	i think all the locoteams (should) have a gpg key in launchpad etc.
05:26	jono	elkbuntu, the problem is of privacy
05:26	jenda	Belutz: I can send you some ;)
05:27	jono	elkbuntu, but thanks, maybe we can figure something out
05:27	Belutz	jenda: wow, thanks :)
05:27	jono	Mirv, thats not a bad idea - an encryped address
05:27	technolalia	with addresses, is it a case of someone volunteering to receive cds at their home address on behalf of the loco?
05:27	jono	technolalia, yep
05:27	rejden	technolalia, seems so
05:27	craigaa	yes
05:27	elkbuntu	technolalia, very few locos have premises
05:27	jono	thats how it normally works
05:27	MagicFab	jono: wikipages or LP pages can be restricted in access, can't they ?
05:27	rejden	jono, I won't make my private adress public
05:28	jono	MagicFab, yes
05:28	jono	tobe honest, I am thinking emails with specific headers an a mail filter are the best thing to do
05:28	jono	dealing with GPG or locked pages is a pain in the ass
05:28	lophyte	jono: I have a question regarding CD shipments but its not really related to the loco meeting.. can I talk to you afterward about it?
05:28	ondrej	I have no problem exposing my work address...
05:28	jono	lophyte, sure! :)
05:28	MagicFab	I guess each team should have a LP /wiki page and be able to restrict its access (for priivacy), make that part of the process to be approved (if CDs requires)
05:28	lophyte	alright
05:28	jono	in the future I would like LP modified to handle this
05:28	rejden	MagicFab, too complicated
05:28	jono	this will be discussed at the UDS
05:28	Kuyaedz	jono: mail filters probably sounds best.  easiest to sort through anyway
05:29	craigaa	It should be possible to flag ship[it users as loco contacts
05:29	jono	ok, well I will get onto it
05:29	jono	so, any questions about Edgy CDs? including lophyte if you like
05:29	looksaus	jono, sorry if I'm interrupting something else, but...
05:29	Kuyaedz	just let us know what subject to use :)
05:29	jono	Kuyaedz, yeah
05:29	jono	looksaus, ...
05:29	MagicFab	rejden, I mean, Loco contacts know *at least* how to edit /create Wiki/LP pages...
05:29	lophyte	jono: actually, its a question about shipit
05:29	looksaus	the policy about edgy is that it is for people who like to be at the cutting edge, right
05:29	looksaus	?
05:29	Kuyaedz	would hate to have our teams request funneled off to the spam folder
05:29	technolalia	how are national loco teams to distribute the cds round their country?
05:30	rejden	MagicFab, they should :)
=== jenda gotta run - later
05:30	elkbuntu	technolalia, that's for each country to figure out i guess
05:30	jono	looksaus, edgy is not LTS, so is not supported, but includes more up to date software
05:30	lophyte	technolalia: have chapters in localities?
05:30	jono	dapper is still recommended for long term supported sites
05:30	MagicFab	technolalia, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuInLibraries
05:30	JanC	jono: "not supported" ?
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: LoCo | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 18 Oct 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 19 Oct 23:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 23 Oct 19:00 UTC: Accessibility Team | 25 Oct 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 26 Oct 07:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team
05:30	Belutz	technolalia, my plan for my country is to send some CD's into local LUG and Universities
=== zul [n=chuck@CPE0006258ec6c1-CM000a73655d0e.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
05:30	jono	JanC, no long term support afaik
05:31	jono	will be supported for a few years but not the five years like dapper
05:31	JanC	yes, but there is short time support, I hope :)
05:31	looksaus	mustn't it be made very clear that we should pitch these edgy cd's to the more advanced users then
05:31	jono	JanC, oh yes :)
05:31	JanC	1.5 years IIRC
05:31	jono	technolalia, distribution of CDs is up to you guys :P
05:31	MagicFab	jono,  hopefully the artwork makes it clear full reproduction is permitted /granted, if all proprietary software included permits to do so.
05:31	Mirv	looksaus: I think it should be fine for any home user, just not companies
05:31	Kuyaedz	I don't consider Edgy for "advanced users", but it isn't LTS like Dapper
05:31	craigaa	I see most edgy cds going to lugs
05:32	jono	MagicFab, there is no propreiatary software in edgy
05:32	jono	MagicFab, not sure of the art, not seen it yet
05:32	JanC	yeah, LTS is for rusty companies with 3-year-plans and the like  :)
05:32	looksaus	my question is this: I'm a bit reluctant to pitch edgy to non-technical end users
05:32	lophyte	why?
05:32	jono	looksaus, why?
05:32	jono	thats are market
05:32	looksaus	because of the support thing...
05:32	jono	support thing?
05:32	looksaus	support cycle
05:33	lophyte	its supported for 1.5 years
05:33	Kuyaedz	looksaus: it isn't any more advanced than dapper, just not supported as long.
05:33	nixternal	it will still get 18 months of support
05:33	MagicFab	jono, no frmware, no restricted-modules... no commercial repos ?
05:33	Kuyaedz	looksaus: its still supported for 18months
=== elmo [n=james@83-216-156-21.jamest747.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["."]
05:33	Mirv	looksaus: edgy should be even easier than dapper for the people. it's supported for 18 months like everything before dapper, and it can easily be updated to a newer distribution version
05:33	jono	MagicFab, everything in edgy is free software
05:33	Kuyaedz	jono: coughfirefoxcough
05:33	jono	MagicFab, afaik it is fully redistributable
05:33	looksaus	and also it received new features that make it a bit more...edgy
=== Kuyaedz ducks & covers for the flamewar
05:33	lophyte	firefox won't be called firefox in edgy.
05:33	looksaus	it works like a charm here...
05:33	nixternal	firefox is free, the icon isn't
05:33	JanC	jono:  that's not the same  :)
05:33	Mirv	jono: does edgy not install restricted component, what?
05:33	lophyte	and thus is still free software
=== cbx33 [n=pete@ubuntu/member/cbx33] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:34	jono	JanC, eh?
05:34	elkbuntu	this is not a line of discussion appropriate for this meeting
05:34	jono	yes this is all offtopic
05:34	looksaus	but my point is that it gets messy when you still ship dapper to end users
05:34	lophyte	agreed, elkbuntu
05:34	Mirv	jono: it might be redistributable, but it's not free software when it comes to those ca. 5 packages in restricted
05:34	jono	lets get back onto CD availability
05:34	JanC	binary-only freeware is also fully redistributable
05:34	jono	please, lets move on...
05:34	jono	any other questions about edgy CDs?
05:35	Belutz	jono: do you know *when* the CD's are going to be process for shipping?
05:35	Kuyaedz	just the details. when & how do we contact you for shipping information?
=== j_ack [n=rudi@p508D84BB.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:35	jono	one sec phone
05:35	craigaa	has a price been set for edgy cds as yet?
05:35	looksaus	hm, while we have a few secs...
05:35	elkbuntu	i think any further discussion can be done on the mailing list, so it is better archived
05:35	nixternal	middle of november was the last date i heard
05:36	lophyte	hey nixternal, do you usually pay duties/taxes on your large CD shipments?
05:36	nixternal	nope
05:36	lophyte	what the heck..
05:36	jono	ack
05:36	jono	back
05:36	lophyte	I got an invoice yesterday, requiring me to pay $26.50 on my shipment of 160CDs
05:36	jono	Belutz, not sure when shipping will be
05:36	craigaa	I have to, unfortunately
05:36	nixternal	just received 2 big shipments for the conferences coming up...even got me a tux costume for some sucker to wear
05:36	jono	Kuyaedz, for contacts, contact Marilize
05:37	jono	craigaa, in terms of prices for sale, its being discussed at the moment
05:37	craigaa	k
05:37	Ekushey	lophyte: here in bangladesh, we need to pay good amount of tax for the cds as well
05:37	lophyte	jono: can I get a contact for marilize from you? I need to speak with her regarding a shipment
05:37	JanC	lophyte: I got an invoice for almost 30 EUR sales & import tax on the free powered by ubuntu stickers  :-(
05:38	lophyte	wow :\
05:38	jono	lophyte, best mailing the shipit info address on the shipit site - that goes to marilize I believe
05:38	lophyte	ah, alright.
05:38	jono	any other queries?
05:38	jono	we could do with getting this lot into the FAQ
05:39	elkbuntu	definately
05:39	MagicFab	There's info about taxes/duties at "Will I have to pay taxes/duties?" -> http://www.ubuntu.com/support/faq#head-7eef2db63e0a75424cdd663ee6f7b8eedcf19607
05:39	jono	this brings me onto another point
05:39	jono	I would love to see the FAQ filled to the brim with details
05:39	JanC	whether you have to pay taxes seems more like some sort of roulette to me
05:40	jono	if you discover or learn something that is not in thwe FAQ, please add it :)
05:40	elkbuntu	feel free to add suggestions you want us to answer
05:40	Belutz	brb
05:40	jono	cool
05:40	jono	just anything you think is missing mainly
05:40	jono	would be nice to see the FAQ grow over time :)
05:41	elkbuntu	especially considering neither jono nor i have quite mastered mind reading :)
05:41	jono	so, summing up edgy CDs I will speak to marilize and post to the list about everything
05:41	craigaa	k
05:41	jono	elkbuntu, nearly there...just getting it perfected... :P
05:41	jono	so, final point is the approval process
05:41	jono	in the last week I have refined this so LoCo teams need to make an approval wiki page for the CC to view
05:42	MagicFab	jono: just before that... will labels be available/.included in those 500 CD shipments / other stuff ?
05:42	jono	this should make approving teams easier
05:42	jono	MagicFab, labels?
05:42	MagicFab	jono: Ubuntu labels (like previously)
05:42	JanC	stickers ?  :)
05:42	elkbuntu	MagicFab, stickers?
05:43	MagicFab	eh, yeah, stickers :D
05:43	jono	no idea about stickers
=== MagicFab spends too much time at the printers
05:43	jono	they are treated seperately to Cds though I think
05:43	MagicFab	ok, go
05:43	jono	I will check into it
05:44	jono	so, I have made https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved to streamline the process
05:44	jono	if any of you want your teams approving
=== MagicFab would rather get 500 stickers than 500 CDs for his team(s)
05:44	jono	read that page and then mail me your application
05:44	craigaa	How about someone (Jono?) being empowered to approve LoCo teams without having to get CC approval in advance?
05:44	MagicFab	craigaa, I was thinking *we* discuss applications here before CC
05:44	jono	craigaa, well this has been discussed, and at the UDS I am going to propose this
05:44	jono	MagicFab, I disagree - having a discussion here *and* at the CC is too much
05:45	jono	I am trying to reduce red tape, not add to it :P
05:45	MagicFab	jono: at the CC would merely be you and perhaps 2 other Loco contacts (other that those applying) to vouch for them...
05:45	jono	right..
05:45	jono	and..
05:45	MagicFab	particularly for the upcoming backlog I see for the next few weeks
05:46	elkbuntu	it should more be that jono act as a filter to stop the not-quite applications before they get as far as the CC
05:46	jono	to get rid of the backlog we need teams making applications, I will identify that applications are good, and if so put them in front of the CC
05:46	MagicFab	elkbuntu, +1
05:46	jono	thats what I do MagicFab :)
05:47	jono	so the plan is to get the backlog fixed up ASAP
05:47	MagicFab	jono, perhaps not here but in the mailing list ()which I haven't been following lately).
05:47	jono	I also have some things to add to the approval howto after todays first shot at approvals
05:47	jono	any questions regarding this process?
05:47	MagicFab	I'd rather raise issues like I had with Ubuntu Pakistan before the CC (not while in it)
05:48	jono	MagicFab, that is what the CC is for
05:48	jono	to get people there to discuss issues
05:48	MagicFab	perhaps just invite other loco teams contacts to comment on applications before they're on the CC
05:48	jono	it makes no sense to discuss some issues on one day and some on another day
=== real_manofcyrus [n=manofcyr@60.50.241.85] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:48	elkbuntu	MagicFab, jono is quite capable of noticing glaring issues
05:49	jono	MagicFab, also, the approval process is not say a LoCo is vetted by the LoCo community, but by the CC who represent the community
05:49	ondrej	only shame is that biggest IT fair in CZ was last week :-(
05:49	jono	if we open up every application or decision to everyone in the community we would get nowhere quickly
05:49	MagicFab	elkbuntu, I trust that.
05:49	jono	I want to streamline this so people can do cool Loco stuff and not get bogged down in approval processes
05:50	nixternal	i want to do cool LoCo stuff
05:50	jono	:)
05:50	MagicFab	jono, asking for comments doesn't change your final decision.
=== lotusleaf [n=lotuslea@unaffiliated/lotusleaf] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["trombone"]
05:50	jono	MagicFab, I know, but it takes my time
05:50	jono	and my time is limited
05:51	nixternal	in less than 2 weeks, if you are in chicago, we will have our big conference..actually found out a couple companies might be interested in sponsoring the event...one is some system security company
05:51	jono	I am responsible for all community teams and I want to get the most out of my time without getting bogged down in red tape
05:51	nixternal	which reminds me..i have a conference call soon
05:51	MagicFab	jono, precisely, not *your* time, but time among loco contacts that may want to discuss a new team's application.
05:51	Kuyaedz	I think the point is that if we well document the steps and better prepare the teams before submission the whole process will be much quicker for everyone involved.
=== Gnomonic [n=gnomonic@cpe.atm2-0-101334.0x50a67d26.bynxx14.customer.tele.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:51	jono	well that is what the CC is for
05:51	jono	if you have concerns, use the CC meeting
05:51	elkbuntu	MagicFab, what you're asking is for 2 layers of peer scrutiny. that will only worsen the process
05:52	elkbuntu	MagicFab, we're trying to lessen the amount of waiting and retrying
05:52	MagicFab	jono, I was commenting on that part opf the process after seing how I did that today and time was missing for other things
05:52	JanC	well, teams who want to get approved can ask approved teams to review their application informally...
05:53	MagicFab	elkbuntu, what you are asking is for only one person deciding. How is that better ? Some memberships wait for *months* and come back several times.
05:53	jono	MagicFab, two layers of commenting are not productive, and we provide a place for comments the CC meeting
05:53	elkbuntu	Some memberships wait for *months* and come back several times. <-- thats what we're trying to *filter*
05:53	jono	MagicFab, how does one person decide? the CC decide
05:53	MagicFab	JanC, that's an idea. Perhaps mention that in the process.
05:54	jono	MagicFab, the problem with two layers of comment is that the first layer of comment needs scheduling, logging, reading, and then some people in the second comment phase will want first phase commentators there
05:54	jono	its waaay too muchc complexity
05:54	jono	right now, teams submit for approval and the CC is there to seek comments
05:55	jono	if the CC meetings are too long, we fix the meetings
05:55	MagicFab	jono, I think JanC's idea is better. Just suggest to applicants that they see /ask for input from other teams
05:55	MagicFab	before they submit.
05:55	jono	I disagree
05:55	MagicFab	jono: are applications posted to the mailing list before the CC ?
05:55	looksaus	why not submit to the mailing list first, then schedule for CC
05:55	looksaus	?
05:56	jono	look, we provide a forum for comment, the CC meeting - if people have concerns or issues prior to that, they should mail the CC
05:56	jono	I think it would be worthwhile to mention the approval on the list
05:56	jono	but the place for concerns and discussion is the CC meeting
05:56	craigaa	Perhaps existing LoCo contacts can assist new teams in preparing their applications before CC approval. Perhaps this will streamline the approvals.
05:56	jono	so the mailing list can tell people that an approval is happening and get to the meeting
05:57	jono	I am happy to make approvals better scheduled, just to not have two seperate comment periods
05:57	JanC	jono: with informal reviews by peers I mean that people can get help with writing their approval request pages
05:57	Kuyaedz	craigaa: I figure that is part of what we need to do with the LoCo Docs.  Put together steps, list resources, etc.
05:57	jono	JanC, sure, and thats what we want to encourage :)
05:57	MagicFab	JanC: +1
05:57	jono	so I suggest this process:
05:57	craigaa	Kuyaedz plus some basic hands on assistance
05:57	jono	* a team begins writing their approval application, seeks help fro the community if needed
05:57	looksaus	jono, maybe just put in a minimum of x days before the CC meeting?
05:58	looksaus	oops, sorry
05:58	jono	* I look ever it to ensure that the application has all the needed bits and then announce it is going for approval at the next CC meeting
05:58	jono	* people then go to the CC meeting to offer comments if needed
05:58	MagicFab	looksaus, usually anything discusses in the agenda should be there at least a few days before
05:58	jono	I think that hits all the areas :)
05:59	jono	brb
05:59	MagicFab	jono: announcing would in the mailing list, the CC agenda and..
05:59	MagicFab	?
06:00	elkbuntu	MagicFab, not to mention, when locos are up for approval they appear on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda so if you are concerned you can keep an eye here
06:00	elkbuntu	MagicFab, or, you could join #ubuntu-locoteams and contribute there
06:00	jono	announcing would be on loco-contacts - I would announce that a loco is submitting for approval and list the CC when it will happen
06:01	MagicFab	elkbuntu, I do. The problem is the loco teams's coevrage area people.
06:01	elkbuntu	MagicFab, i do not see you in the channel
06:02	jono	there has been little objection other than MagicFab so I am going to propose the process I mentioned earlier
06:02	looksaus	good idea
06:02	jono	this way the community know of up coming approvals and can offer comment
06:02	MagicFab	jono, not objecting. Actually ++ for mention on the mailing list before the CC.
06:02	jono	good job
06:03	jono	all sorted then :)
06:03	jono	I will modify the docs to reflect this
06:03	elkbuntu	that would mean...
=== elkbuntu waits the magic words that translate to 'bed time'
06:03	MagicFab	elkbuntu, I do check the CC agenda - not often on #u-locoteams
06:03	jono	so, we are largely done, any other issues/
06:03	looksaus	jono, do you still have time for this other issue?
06:03	jono	looksaus, shoot
06:04	jono	I have to go in five mins
06:04	looksaus	sorry, it's the same thing from before: marketing edgy versus dapper, and towards whom?
06:04	jono	looksaus, ahhh ok, think of it in terms of support
06:04	looksaus	could you point me to canonical policy on that?
=== Adri2000 [n=Adri2000@unaffiliated/adri2000] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:04	ondrej	jono: domain ubuntu.cz was not payed for and is about to leave DNS system :-( (sent emails to hostmaster@c.c, webmasters@c.c), but I need a promise that this will be looked at
06:04	jono	dapper provides a long support cycle and some companies care about that
06:04	jono	ondrej, mail smurf
06:04	ondrej	jono: email address?
06:04	jono	ondrej, did Canonical buy that for you?
06:05	ondrej	jono: I transfered domain to Canonical last year due trademarks
06:05	jono	looksaus, so recommend dapper to those companies who want an established version of ubuntu that has been released for six months - for other people who are happy to have a newer release, recommend edgy
06:05	jono	ondrej, right, let me get his email address and /msg you with it
06:06	jono	ondrej, got it?
06:07	ondrej	jono: yep, thanks
06:07	craigaa	I've got to go people. Thanks for the meeting. See you next time.
06:07	jono	ok any other last minute issues?
06:07	jono	I need to run
06:07	jono	thanks craigaa
06:07	looksaus	sorry for having kept you busy
06:07	Kuyaedz	I'm taken care of
06:07	elkbuntu	any other issues can go to the mailing list for consideration next meeting
06:07	jono	can someone ensure the log is online?
06:07	jono	yep
06:07	craigaa	ciao
06:07	jono	thanks folks! :)
=== craigaa [n=craigaa@dsl-145-113-29.telkomadsl.co.za] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
06:07	elkbuntu	thanks jono :)
06:07	Kuyaedz	thanks. ttyl
06:07	Belutz	thanks jono :)
=== Kuyaedz [i=Kuyaedz@gateway/tor/x-255d4971deb0f87e] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
06:08	JanC	the log is always on-line  :)
06:08	jono	:)
=== lucas [n=lucas@ubuntu/member/lucas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:08	looksaus	hm, guess the meeting is officially closed, so...
06:08	jono	later all!!
</pre>
