{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   
   09:59 mdz            everyone here?
   10:00 dholbach       yes
   10:00 sivang         me here, but still drafting system-clean-up-tool
   === fabbione is
   === heno is here
   10:00 sfllaw         Well, I am.
   === ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Ubuntu Development Team | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 11 Jul 20:00 UTC: Community Council | 12 Jul 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 13 Jul 02:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 13 Jul 19:00 UTC: Marketing Team
   10:00 mdz            Kamion and doko are excused, infinity I believe is still on holiday
   10:00 dholbach       mvo is on holiday too
   10:00 Riddell        hi
   10:00 iwj            I'm here.
   === DonLorenzo [n=larry@unaffiliated/donlorenzo] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   10:00 rodarvus       I'm here
   10:00 dholbach       doko wanted me to do phone-to-irc gateway, but i couldn't reach him *shrug*
   10:01 mdz            fabbione,Mithrandir,BenC,ogra: ping
   === fabbione is here
   10:01 mdz            ah, I see fabbione and heno now
   10:01 fabbione       :)
   10:01 BenC           mdz: pong
   === pygi [n=pygi@83-131-235-55.adsl.net.t-com.hr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:01 ogra           pong
   === algor [n=fs_1@62-101-126-209.ip.fastwebnet.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === manichinos [n=linux@host61-11.pool8711.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:02 mdz            anyone seen Mithrandir?
   10:02 GNAM           hi algor, manichinos
   10:02 fabbione       i am texting him
   10:02 manichinos     hi :-D
   10:02 mdz            dholbach: doko said he would email an update but I didn't receive one; did he send it to you instead?
   === Darksun88 [n=michele@85-18-14-37.fastres.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:03 mdz            oh, I found it
   10:03 dholbach       mdz: no, as i said he wanted me to do phone-to-irc gateway, but i couldn't reach him
   === Darksun88 [n=michele@85-18-14-37.fastres.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Sto]
   10:03 fabbione       mdz: Mith is on his way here
   10:04 mdz            ok
   10:04 mdz            we're going in random order for extra excitement
   10:04 mdz            Keybuk: you're first
   10:05 Keybuk         mdz: I don't have a pre-pasted plan, because I wasn't sure what we're supposed to actually be saying
   10:05 Keybuk         this-week: merges, driving soyuz by hand, buildd stuff
   === Burgwork [n=corey@ubuntu/member/burgundavia] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:05 mdz            Keybuk: I explained in the email what was expected; the usual status update + spec status
   10:06 mdz            Keybuk: you have 5 specs approved and targeted for edgy; are there any more pending?
   10:06 Keybuk         mdz: but we're not supposed to be doing spec work this week, no? :)
   10:06 Keybuk         mdz: nope, that's the set
   10:07 mdz            Keybuk: hmm?
   === manichinos [n=linux@host61-11.pool8711.interbusiness.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   10:07 mdz            today was the deadline for getting specs approved for edgy, so it's a good time to review where they stand
   === jhemono [n=jhemono@84.5.150.66] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:07 mdz            Keybuk: in the past week you made MOM a lot better :-P
   10:08 mdz            Keybuk: is the implementation status up to date on all of your specs?
   10:08 Keybuk         mdz: yes, the implementation status is up to date
   10:08 mdz            ok, thanks
   10:08 Keybuk         dash-as-bin-sh is implemented
   10:08 Keybuk         the others are either unstarted or started
   10:08 mdz            seb128: next
   10:09 seb128         This week:
   10:09 seb128         - mails catching up
   10:09 seb128         - started bugs catching up
   10:09 seb128         - GTK 2.10, work on GNOME 2.15.3
   10:09 seb128         - syncs from Debian
   10:09 seb128         .
   10:09 seb128         Next week:
   10:09 seb128         - keep catching up on bugs and syncs from Debian
   10:09 seb128         - GNOME 2.15.4
   10:09 mdz            seb128: how are you doing on the merge?
   10:09 seb128         pretty good, GNOME merges should be done for 2.15.4 next week
   10:10 mdz            ok, great
   10:10 mdz            we're doing very well on merge progress
   10:10 seb128         :)
   10:10 mdz            if we maintain a good pace, we should meet our target next week
   10:10 seb128         cool
   10:10 mdz            only 166 to go
   10:10 mdz            165
   10:10 fabbione       mdz: the MoM doesn't show X
   10:10 ogra           just to mention thats a lot of Keybuks fault :)
   10:10 fabbione       add another 90 or so :)
   10:10 ogra           (that we are this fast)
   10:10 pitti          fabbione: main-manual.html
   10:11 mdz            fabbione: because it's a mess with mismatched  .origs?
   10:11 ogra           new mom is awesome
   10:11 mdz            yes, well done Keybuk
   10:11 fabbione       mdz: it's a mess. <- full stop :)
   10:11 fabbione       pitti: not all of them show up there either
   10:11 mdz            thanks seb128
   10:11 mdz            Colin is next, he emailed an update
   10:11 mdz            seed-cleanup: Implemented. (People responsible for Kubuntu, Edubuntu, and Xubuntu seeds still need to merge the seed changes, which will probably be complicated; contact me if there are things you don't understand there.)
   10:11 mdz            ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Approved.
   10:11 mdz            misc: All other specs approved. Merges going fairly well (have been helping out a bit with the X merge). Also in the middle of an oem-config reorganisation which is a prerequisite for (a) my sanity and (b) part of a Google Summer of Code project.
   10:11 mdz            next-week: Finish merges and oem-config reorganisation. Get the installer (at least d-i, and with any luck Ubiquity too) working in Edgy.
   10:12 Keybuk         mdz: it's because the source packages first appeared in Debian, and when they appeared in Ubuntu, they had higher version numbers -- so there's no base for the merge
   10:12 mdz            Riddell,ogra,janimo: note the seed-cleanup bit above
   10:12 ogra           yep
   10:12 ogra           i have it in my list for next week already
   10:12 mdz            ok
   10:12 mdz            Riddell: ack?
   10:13 Riddell        yep
   10:13 mdz            thanks
   10:13 mdz            rodarvus: next?
   10:13 rodarvus       sure
   10:13 rodarvus       * specs:
   10:13 rodarvus       - fully-automatic-swap-server is approved
   10:13 rodarvus       - ltsp-login-and-session-handling and edubuntu-xfce-desktop are under review (that will hopefully change very soon now)
   10:13 rodarvus       * past week work:
   10:13 rodarvus       - corrections/updates/clarifications to specs above
   10:13 rodarvus       - Merges: getting up to speed with Ubuntu X packaging, X merges/sync (many many thanks to fabbione, Mithrandir and Kamion)
   10:13 rodarvus       - Edubuntu: EC meeting, new artwork lead was chosen (AliasVegas)
   10:13 rodarvus       - OLPC: catching up with development, mailing lists and code + received confirmation of developer board
   10:13 rodarvus       * next week:
   10:13 rodarvus       - continue X merges/syncs (fabbione has status page at http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/x-pkgs)
   10:13 rodarvus       - hopefully merge/sync other unrelated/unclaimed bits
   10:13 mdz            rodarvus: I'll help you with those two specs today; what time do you leave/sleep?
   10:14 rodarvus       I'll sleep in 7-8 hours from now
   10:14 rodarvus       so, plenty of time
   10:14 mdz            ok, I'll have about 4 hours after the meeting before I need to go
   10:15 mdz            rodarvus: are there any specs other than those three which are potential targets for you for edgy?
   10:15 rodarvus       I'd also like to thank fabbione, Mithrandir and Kamion for all the help with X merging
   10:15 rodarvus       I think I'm finally catching up to speed with it
   10:15 rodarvus       mdz, no
   10:16 mdz            rodarvus: that should leave you some time for X ;-)
   10:16 pitti          rodarvus: do you think you can put mesa on your list, too? it's currently 'my' merge, but I have no clue about it
   10:16 rodarvus       there's stuff (LTSP related) I'd like to do, but they weren't specced before UDS (well, I joined one week before UDS :) )
   10:16 rodarvus       pitti, sure, I'll take it
   10:16 mdz            ok
   10:16 mdz            thanks rodarvus
   10:16 mdz            doko is next, he emailed an update
   10:16 mdz            it's long
   10:16 mdz            status this week:
   10:16 mdz            - OOo: 2.0.3 build, 2.0.2 security fixes for dapper and breezy (need building and testing)
   10:16 mdz            - syncs: about 130 python syncs from unstable, all other syncs for main with me as uploader done
   10:16 mdz            - specs: update specs, new python2.5 spec.
   10:16 mdz            - SoC: a bit admin stuff
   10:16 mdz            next week:
   10:16 mdz            - more python syncs, check for build failures in synced packages
   10:16 mdz            - finish packaging hints, we need it now.
   10:16 mdz            edgy-toolchain status:
   10:16 mdz            - required topics mostly done, the remaining topics are marked as optional, and may move to edgy+1-toolchain roadmap
   10:16 mdz            edgyplusone-toolchain status:
   10:16 mdz            - spec not yet approved
   10:16 mdz            - we currently lack a possibility to upload packages to a common area, currently testing is done with gcc-snapshot for bugs/compatibility; gcc-4.2 packages would overwrite the 4.1 based packages in edgy.
   10:17 mdz            - need to know when a prototype of the automatic-rebuild spec will be available,
   10:17 mdz            I hadn't seen python2.5; I'll target and prioritize
   10:17 mdz            Kamion approved it already
   10:18 mdz            hmm, it needs clarification though
   10:18 mdz            I'll talk with doko about it tomorrow
   10:18 mdz            edgplusone-toolchain is approved now, since he sent that email
   10:18 mdz            and targeted for edgy
   10:18 mdz            heno: next
   10:19 heno           * Approved this week: sudo-admin-atspi, sok, livecd-access, edgy-content, xubuntu-accessibility
   10:19 heno           * Implemented this week: access-ubuntu-com at http://access.ubuntu.com
   10:19 heno           * sok: Made two new keyboard layouts and did testing. The basic keyboard now works nicely IMO. At some point I should speak with those who know about non-latin input and the xkb system.
   10:19 heno           * forum-integration: talking with the forum team about a new theme that matches our main site better, including using the same tabs
   10:19 heno           * compiz-mag: Slow progress ATM. Will be targeted for edgy+1, though we may get something into universe for edgy.
   10:19 heno           * Other: helping newz2000 get started
   10:19 heno           * NEXT WEEK: more webmaster tutoring, try to get compiz-mag moving better forward, prepare live CD boot images and sounds
   10:19 mdz            sok is also approved and edgy-targeted now
   10:19 heno           yep, thanks
   10:19 mdz            heno: forum-integration is set to informational; should it not be?
   10:20 heno           yes it should. I guess I should mention that under 'other' if anything
   10:20 heno           all the specs are marked and targeted correctly now AFAICS
   10:20 mdz            ok, great
   10:21 sivang         I lost net connection for some secs, back now
   === HedgeMage [n=illecebr@freenode/staff/HedgeMage] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   10:21 mdz            thanks heno
   10:21 mdz            pitti: next
   10:21 pitti          apt-get-debug-symbols:
   10:21 pitti          - pkg-create-dbgsym package is in edgy, announced it and called for testing
   10:21 pitti          - apart from bug fixes, this spec is done from my side, ball is in Soyuz field now
   10:21 pitti          automated-problem-reports:
   10:21 pitti          - tried various methods of reducing the coredump with objcopy without perfect results so far; just bzip2'ing the dump gives drastic shrinkage, though, so I'll just start with that
   10:22 pitti          - plan for next week: write first version of backend (crash interception and report generation)
   10:22 pitti          gcc-ssp: enabled in gcc since last Friday, no reported regressions so far; I set it to 'deployed' since not all packages have actually been rebuilt since then; nothing to do any more about this for now
   10:22 pitti          auto-unmount-notifications:
   10:22 pitti          - not started yet; not intrusive, so I'll deal with it after I'm done with my archive-wide specs
   10:22 pitti          non-spec work done this week:
   10:22 pitti          - merges: did all my merges except for mesa (beyond my abilities) and an updated cupsys merge (still to come, needs some serious thinking); also grabbed some merges from infinity, chmj, and a few others
   10:22 pitti          - google SoC mid-term review
   10:22 pitti          - couple of security updates
   10:22 pitti          - cups update for dapper
   10:22 pitti          - started gnutls12 -> 13 and libtasn1-2 -> 3 transitions; will finish that later since most of the transitions will be done through regular gnome and other uploads
   10:22 pitti          plan for next week:
   10:22 pitti          - help out others with merges
   10:22 pitti          - catch up with bug mail
   10:22 pitti          - work on automated-problem-reports
   10:22 pitti          - some outstanding security updates
   10:23 mdz            pitti: any edgyish specs which aren't approved yet?
   10:23 pitti          oh, I forgot, my specs are in good shape
   10:23 pitti          approval/edgy tag and time estimates are correct
   10:23 pitti          s/correct/current/ for the estimates :)
   10:23 mdz            and implementation status?
   10:24 pitti          too
   10:24 mdz            pitti: are the dapper printing updates already prepared?
   10:24 Mithrandir     present now, sorry about forgetting about the meeting. :-/
   10:24 pitti          mdz: yes, I'm waiting for your ack for the 1.2.2 bug fixes I added
   10:24 pitti          mdz: well, cups is ready, ivoks is workign on gutenprint now
   10:24 pitti          but that's independent
   10:25 pitti          and we'll discuss hplip again
   === azeem [n=mbanck@host109.natpool.mwn.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:25 mdz            pitti: do I have an email about that?  Idon't see it
   10:26 pitti          mdz: shall we ressign apt-get-debug-symbols to some soyuz guy now to reflect it better?
   10:26 pitti          mdz: no, IRC ping, I can mail you if you want
   10:26 pitti          mdz: I just pastebin'ed you a small list of changes
   10:26 mdz            pitti: I'll care for apt-get-debug-symbols and soyuz, thanks
   10:26 mdz            pitti: I missed that; please do email
   10:26 pitti          will do
   10:27 mdz            pitti: thanks
   10:27 mdz            BenC: next
   10:27 BenC           libata-for-all-disks: IN PROGRESS: Libata is in the kernel, and some modules are being built. However, they are currently blacklisted until we test them and get the UUID conversion done.
   10:27 BenC           linux-kernel-crash-dump: IN PROGRESS: Starting integration of kdump/kexec into kernel. Hopefully will be available in stages over the next few kernel uploads.
   10:27 BenC           cfq-by-default: DONE: 2.6.17-4.6 implements this feature now.
   10:27 BenC           SPECS general: Status on all specs up-to-date
   10:27 BenC           ABAT: Stalled on IBM's side. Waiting to see what progress they've made
   10:27 BenC           Bugs: Steady flow, but manageable still.
   10:27 BenC           General kernel status: So far 2.6.17 seems pretty stable for most ppl. There are a couple of major issues, but they are isolated, and should be easily reconciled. Linux-restricted-modules and linux-meta now reflect 2.6.17 as the default kernel in Edgy.
   10:28 mdz            BenC: who's working on the probe-for-root bit?
   10:29 BenC           wasn't aware of the spec
   10:29 mdz            BenC: that's the name for the UUID mounting
   10:29 fabbione       wasn't probe-for-root done dapper?
   10:29 fabbione       in dapper
   10:29 BenC           yeah, UUID is a bit different I think
   10:29 mdz            fabbione: only for removable devices
   10:29 fabbione       it was marked as implemented by i don't remember by who
   10:29 Mithrandir     fabbione: it was, but the transition to put uuids in fstab isn't done.
   10:29 mdz            we deferred the rest
   10:29 fabbione       Mithrandir: ok
   10:30 Mithrandir     I implemented the d-i bits, but it's explicitly only enabled for USB/firewire devices.
   10:30 BenC           the UUID thing is spec'd out in libata-for-all-disks, since it was dependent on i
   10:30 mdz            Mithrandir: will you enable it by default for edgy?
   === ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Ubuntu Development Team | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 11 Jul 20:00 UTC: Community Council | 12 Jul 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 13 Jul 02:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 13 Jul 19:00 UTC: Marketing Team | 17 Jul 13:00 UTC: Kubuntu
   10:30 Mithrandir     mdz: I think that's in the spec, and it's a trivial change.  I can do it, sure.
   10:30 mdz            ok
   10:31 mdz            BenC: can you do the migration for upgrades?
   10:31 mdz            or are you blocked on it?
   10:32 BenC           I can do the migration, but I'd really like someone to code review it
   === slomo_ [n=slomo@ubuntu/member/slomo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:32 mdz            Keybuk: can you assist with that?
   10:32 BenC           could easily screw up some systems if we don't get it right the first time
   10:32 Keybuk         mdz: libata?  I believe it's part-assigned to me -- especially themigration stuff
   10:32 mdz            Keybuk: the migration specifically, yes
   10:32 BenC           Keybuk was supposed to do migration, but really I can start on it if need be
   10:33 mdz            so long as it's on someone's todo list
   10:33 mdz            I'm happy
   10:33 mdz            BenC: what's your plan for bugs regarding 2.6.15->2.6.17?
   10:33 mdz            are you going to ask the reporters to reconfirm with 2.6.17?
   10:33 mdz            that'd be a lot easier once we have a milestone, of course
   10:34 BenC           over the next two weeks I'm going to push some bugs to target 2.6.17 so they can be verified in edgy
   10:34 Mithrandir     mdz: knot-1 is planned in a week.  I wonder if we'll make it, but we have to start sometime..
   10:34 mdz            [TXT]  edgy_probs.html         06-Jul-2006 20:44  160K
   10:34 mdz            impressive
   10:35 fabbione       all python and x-dev are basically uninstallable
   10:35 mdz            python is upgradeable now though
   10:35 fabbione       yeah probably
   10:35 mdz            anyway, we'll see what happens next week
   10:35 mdz            BenC: thanks
   10:35 mdz            iwj: next
   10:35 BenC           thanks as well
   10:35 iwj            have been doing: merges, spec reviews etc.
   10:35 iwj            firefox merge: still broken but I think I know what the problem is
   10:35 iwj            merges: mine done except for firefox and apparently gs-gpl (which I thought I'd done but perhaps I didn't upload it)
   10:35 iwj            automated-testing-deployment: now BLOCKED on xen-edgy
   10:35 iwj            xen-edgy: some work done by Chuck Short aka zul on the kernel; nothing by me yet; I need to check on the current status
   10:35 iwj            package-dependency-field-breaks: no further progress this week
   10:35 iwj            suggest-packages-for-filetypes: mvo has done some minor changes and I need to pick it up
   10:35 iwj            REQUEST: Merges become a lot easier if you make good patches and are sure to feed them upstream and/or to Debian.  Ideally, nearly every merge should be a sync, surely ?  When it's not we should consider whether to chase upstream and/or Debian again.
   10:36 mdz            iwj: does the firefox merge include the human theme addition?
   10:36 iwj            IMPORTANT: I propose that we move this meeting to 0700, 1500, 2300 UTC.  Thanks to the nine people who replied with info.  Sorry that first my mail to warthogs had various wrong dates and times.
   10:36 iwj            No.
   10:36 iwj            The theme is quite separate.
   10:36 fabbione       iwj: ++ on the meeting.
   10:36 iwj            That is, the theme is in a different package.
   10:36 mdz            I acked your meeting times proposal; does anyone wish to object now?
   10:36 mdz            iwj: I mean the change to use the theme by default
   10:36 iwj            mdz: No, that's not in this one but the diff is trivial.
   10:36 pitti          new time++
   10:37 mdz            iwj: if it's trivial, please add it
   === dholbach is happy with the times
   10:37 iwj            I mean, _really trivial_.
   10:37 BenC           meeting time ++
   10:37 ogra           ++
   10:37 iwj            mdz: I'll do it in two uploads just because I'm paranoid.
   10:37 iwj            I want an easy-to-revert upload for it I think.
   10:37 mdz            so long as it isn't delayed
   10:37 iwj            But it won't take any actual time to do two rather than one.  My computer can grind for a bit.
   10:37 mdz            ok
   10:37 iwj            Noted.
   10:37 mdz            sounds like the new meeting times are a hit, let's go ahead with it
   10:37 iwj            Excellent.
   10:38 mdz            iwj: please mail the Fridge folks and ask them to update the calendar accordinlgy
   10:38 mdz            accordingly
   10:38 iwj            mdz: Ack.
   10:38 mdz            fridge-devel@lists I think
   10:38 Keybuk         also we should set out the policy for the pre-meeting report paste
   10:38 Amaranth       ouch, i can only make it to one of those meetings :/
   10:38 sfllaw         iwj: When does this start to take effect?
   10:38 Amaranth       oh well, i don't count
   10:38 Keybuk         and indicate where those are to go
   10:38 mdz            sfllaw: next week
   10:38 iwj            Keybuk: We were expecting sfllaw to do that, weren't we ?
   10:38 sfllaw         Indeed.
   10:38 pitti          Keybuk: preferably on an ubuntu wiki page
   10:38 Mithrandir     Keybuk: we also need somebody to whip the slackers.
   10:38 fabbione       sfllaw: can we move that wiki thingy to the public wiki? or do we want to keep it internal?
   10:39 sfllaw         Can we wait until it's my turn so we don't delay the meeting?
   10:39 iwj            sfllaw: your turn> Good idea.
   10:39 mdz            ok
   10:40 mdz            iwj: any specs which ought to be targeted for edgy which aren't approved yet?
   10:40 iwj            No.
   10:40 mdz            ok
   10:40 LaserJock      iwj: what do you want to do with developer-referenfce?
   10:40 mdz            regarding feeding patches upstream, we have a plan for more automation there which is waiting for a new soyuz feature
   10:40 iwj            LaserJock: I was going to do my other specs and then see if I had time for it.
   10:41 iwj            mdz: Has this been discussed with Debian ?
   10:41 mdz            iwj: yes
   10:41 iwj            Excellent.
   10:41 mdz            long thread on debian-devel
   10:41 mdz            iwj: thanks
   10:41 mdz            ogra: next
   10:41 iwj            I must have missed it somehow.  Maybe it looked like a flamewar.
   10:41 ogra           * last-week: started moving ltsp to a common buildsystem (autoconf/automake), shuffled ltsp branches around so we have the right structure now, merged: gartoon, fuse, iftraf, pwgen, rss-glx, tuxmath, tuxpaint, xscreensaver, did SoC mid term review
   10:41 ogra           * outstanding merges: kdeedu (currently building the final package (since 1,5h, kudos to Riddell)), kino, nessus-plugins, xfonts-terminus (waiting for x to be ready for font merges)
   10:41 ogra           * next-week: finishing merges, several meetings with the debian ltsp guys planned to finish the common buildsystem move before UVF, voip meeting with scott balneaves about packaging basics in monday, getting the edubuntu-seeds ready for the first milestone CD, grabbing orphaned merges, uploading the first version of willowng (the SoC work)
   10:41 ogra           * specs:
   10:41 ogra           - student-control-panel-completion: (Needs Review)
   10:41 ogra           - ltsp-daily-image-tarballs: (not started yet, nedds more update for scott balneaves (planned, see above))
   10:41 ogra           - ltsp-convergence: (common buildsystem started (see above))
   10:41 ogra           - ltsp-netboot-enhancement: (not started)
   === dakira [n=daxel3@e177206112.adsl.alicedsl.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:41 ogra           Hawkwind, strike kdeedu ... it just finished successfull :))
   10:42 ogra           oh
   10:42 ogra           s/Hawkwind/HA/
   10:42 mdz            speaking of fonts, is someone on xfonts-utils?
   10:42 fabbione       mdz: we need to finish the libs first
   10:42 mdz            ok
   10:42 ogra           yep, its on fabbiones list
   10:42 mdz            ogra: how did the ltsp/bzr meeting go?
   10:42 fabbione       mdz: and fonts need some special attention because Debian is using yet again another fonts path
   10:42 mdz            fabbione: garrr
   10:43 ogra           mdz, only partially ... long story, sbalneav was called away by his boss after 45mins
   10:43 mdz            ogra: which specs should be targeted for edgy but are not yet approved+targeted?
   10:43 ogra           student control panel
   10:44 mdz            ok, I'll help with that today
   === ogra hands iwj a flower, we had a bad day through each other, that shouldnt have happened
   10:44 mdz            is everything ok?
   10:44 iwj            ogra: Sorry about that.  Maybe we should get someone else to review your specs.
   10:44 ogra           on my side it is now, i've calmed down
   10:44 iwj            Next time, I mean.
   === fabbione blames the heat
   10:45 mdz            ok
   10:45 mdz            ogra: thanks
   10:45 mdz            Mithrandir: next
   10:45 ogra           yes, probably ... but  i'm willing to try once again, we should overcome this ... arent we pofessionals ? ;)
   10:45 Mithrandir     misc: merges, particularly the X merge.  Also been impersonating Adam and Charles for merging.  Also reviewed a couple of specs.  Also uploaded Opera to dapper-commercial
   10:45 Mithrandir     sane-installer-keyboard: no progress, some loose discussion in #debian-boot about it
   10:45 Mithrandir     live-cd-stacked-filesystems: no progress apart from being told about squashfs supporting those directly without unionfs and will look into that
   10:46 Mithrandir     live-cd-write-as-you-go: blocked on packet-writing which I became aware of recently
   10:46 Mithrandir     packet-writing: needs to be reviewed and fixed up for edgy ASAP.  I'll do this before going to bed
   10:46 Mithrandir     livecd-sessions: no progress
   10:46 mdz            ogra,iwj: let's talk about it after the meeting
   10:46 Mithrandir     livec-cd-share-live-cd: bumped back to drafting, haven't had time to look at this.
   10:46 Mithrandir     next week: more merges, get X into shape, get knot 1 out.
   10:46 iwj            mdz: OK.
   10:46 Mithrandir     I'll mail d-d-a about the knot-1 freeze.
   10:46 Mithrandir     uh, u-d-a
   10:46 mdz            heh
   10:46 dholbach       Mithrandir: when do you think the freeze will be? roughly?
   10:46 mdz            Mithrandir: anything pending on the spec approval+targeting front?
   10:47 Mithrandir     mdz: I need to get the packet-writing approved as I said.  I'm tempted to postpone livec-cd-share-live-cd unless I can get it approved tomorrow.
   10:47 Mithrandir     dholbach: well, I'd like it to happen on wednesday, but UVF is in exactly a week, so I need to do something clever.
   10:48 mdz            Mithrandir: the other livecd features seem more interesting to me
   === mhz [n=mhz@moinmoin/fan/mhz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:48 mdz            Mithrandir: I'll go over packet-writing with you later tonight if you're around
   10:48 Mithrandir     mdz: ogra and the ltsp people seem crazy about the share-live-cd one since it can be used for making a ltsp live cd.
   10:48 Mithrandir     mdz: it's almost 2300 here, but I'll fix that up, so that'd be great.
   10:49 mdz            Mithrandir: crazy enough to help with the spec or implementation? :-P
   10:49 ogra           (it would enable edubuntu to ship on the desktop CD)
   10:49 ogra           as a sideeffect
   10:50 ogra           Mithrandir, how big is that ?
   10:50 mdz            please discuss after the meeting, we're short on time
   10:50 ogra           ok
   10:50 Mithrandir     ogra: the spec is mostly minor stuff.  I have an idea how to do the implementation, but post-meeting.
   10:50 mdz            Mithrandir: is opera ready to be added to app-install-data-commercial?  I don't remember seeing it there
   10:51 Mithrandir     mdz: I think so.  I just uploaded it and haven't seen an ACCEPT message from the queue even, so I don't know where it sits.
   10:51 mdz            ah, ok
   10:51 mdz            Mithrandir: thanks
   10:51 mdz            dholbach: next
   10:51 dholbach       specs approved: easier-motuing (no progress); automating-artwork (no progress - apart from what's mentioned in the spec already); galago-in-ubuntu (started, investigating ftbfs of one lib)
   10:51 dholbach       spec which needs work: future-of-gst (conversations with carlos have happened during guadec, list of tasks identified, gst 2.15 uploaded, but not built yet (needed to indicate and demonstrate), spec needs to be finalized)
   10:51 dholbach       this week: merges and updates of gnome (updates: 80% done, amount of merges good-looking), hell lot of bug triage, trying to be mvo as much I can, make my inbox love me again, SoC review (done)
   10:51 dholbach       next week: gnome 2.15.4, bug triage, starting on easier-motuing, automating-artwork (and updates and splitting of the packages), trying to be mvo as much I can
   10:51 dholbach       week after that: HUG DAY! sfllaw?
   10:52 mdz            dholbach: we can talk about future-of-gst a bit later if you're here
   10:52 mdz            otherwise maybe tomorrow
   10:52 dholbach       tomorrow would be cool
   10:52 mdz            the list of specs to drive last-minute today is getting long
   10:52 dholbach       seb128: what do you think?
   10:53 mdz            ok
   10:53 mdz            dholbach: thanks
   10:53 dholbach       de rien
   10:53 mdz            sfllaw: next
   10:53 seb128         dholbach: tomorrow
   10:53 sfllaw         Done: Bug triage, SoC mentoring, ubuntu-qa vetting, spec writing, scouting for new hires.
   10:53 sfllaw         Todo: Bug triage, ubuntu-qa vetting, spec writing, SoC mentoring, test plans for edgy specs.
   10:53 sfllaw         Specs:
   10:53 sfllaw         - multi-machine-testing-infrastructure (Review)
   10:54 sfllaw         - edgy-testing (drafting)
   10:54 sfllaw         - drinking-from-the-firehose (drafting)
   10:54 sfllaw         Also, I'd like some feedback on http://www.canonical.com/DistroTeamMeetings
   10:54 sfllaw         .
   10:54 sfllaw         STATISTICS
   10:54 sfllaw         ==========
   10:54 mdz            sfllaw: since you'll need to poke people to get those pastes anyway, could you take responsibility for announcing the meeting 24+hours prior as I did this week?
   10:54 sfllaw         Since last week...
   10:54 sfllaw         Unconfirmed and unassigned bugs of severity >= normal: 2284 -> 2760
   10:54 sfllaw         Untriaged bugs: 723 -> 861
   10:54 sfllaw         Needs Info bugs: 1753 -> 1794
   10:54 sfllaw         Dapper bugs: 75 -> 74
   10:54 sfllaw         Edgy bugs: 3 -> 4
   10:54 sfllaw         Bugs without packages: 1502 -> 1533
   10:54 sfllaw         iwj: Is it the 7h00 UTC meeting next week?
   10:54 sfllaw         People have suggested that I move DistroTeamMeetings to the public wiki.
   10:54 sfllaw         Uhm, OK.
   10:54 iwj            sfllaw: Yes.
   === riffic [n=riffic@user-142h54j.cable.mindspring.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:54 sfllaw         Yay.  It's a whole hour better than it was before.
   10:54 sfllaw         :)
   10:55 pitti          sfllaw: public++ (#u-m is public and publicly logged, too)
   10:55 mdz            DistroTeamMeetings doesn't seem to exist
   10:55 sivang         rigth
   10:55 Keybuk         mdz: s/www/wiki/
   10:55 sfllaw         Sorry.
   10:55 mdz            ah
   10:55 mdz            sfllaw: what's the plan for your specs?  you don't have anything targeted for edgy yet
   10:56 mdz            drinking-from-the-firehose is informational, yes?
   10:56 sfllaw         Edgy-testing is targetted for Edgy.  As is drinking-from-the-firehose.
   10:56 mdz            neither is on https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/edgy/+specs
   10:56 sfllaw         :(
   10:56 mdz            we're only targeting specs once they're approved
   10:57 mdz            edgy-testing is marked informational as well
   10:57 mdz            though there is indirect work associated with it
   10:57 mdz            let's discuss after the meeting what to do
   10:57 sfllaw         OK.
   10:57 mdz            thanks
   10:57 mdz            Riddell: next
   10:57 Riddell        done: merges, Kubuntu packages in main should be done by tomorrow although some poking of buildds will be needed and some main inclusion reports todo.  universe also progressing well thanks to MOTU
   10:57 Riddell        next week: kubuntu-launchpad-integration and if time kubuntu-easy-zeroconf.  Knot 1?
   10:57 Riddell        specs: all approved except kubuntu-file-transfer-dialogue (not too important), thanks reviewers
   10:58 iwj            Are we running very late ?  It's difficult to tell in random order ...
   10:58 mdz            iwj: almost done
   10:58 mdz            fabbione and sivang
   10:59 mdz            Riddell: are you going to try to get k-f-t-d through or defer it?  you have a bunch of stuff already, though some of it may not be for you personally
   10:59 mdz            Riddell: e.g., isn't mornfall implementing the adept stuff?
   10:59 Riddell        mdz: kubuntu-file-transfer-dialogue should be close to though, kamion only had a small comment for it
   11:00 Riddell        yes, the adept ones should be assigned to mornfall (although he's not decided if he'll do it as a bounty yet)
   11:00 Riddell        I don't expect to have time for kubuntu-file-transfer-dialogue
   11:00 mdz            Riddell: ok, please reassign them as appropriate so it's clear who's doing what
   11:00 mdz            Riddell: thanks
   11:00 mdz            fabbione: next
   11:00 Riddell        also kwwii says he's unlikely to get kubuntu-icons done for edgy
   11:00 fabbione       * specs: ubuntu-edgy-cluster and sparc64-port have been approved. Got a thumb up from silbs on the internal spec that is waiting for mdz and/or sabdfl for distro/lp allocation. no other specs are in queue for edgy.
   11:00 fabbione       * sparc64-port: My t2000 is temporary busy running the hw certification software for Marc.
   11:00 fabbione       * ubuntu-edgy-cluster: Working on GFS2 userland new deps (openais) and coordinating with upstream for a release date. Addressing some 32/64/endianess problems and getting all our patches upstream to reduce the maintainance load (5/8 are up already). No changes from last week.
   11:00 fabbione       * last week: completed gcc bug fixing/testing in edgy (sparc), completed the sparc64-port and ubuntu-edgy-cluster specs, done libparted check on sparc for Kamion with no real luck, dovecot regression from breezy to dapper has been addressed to upstream that is working on a solution, basically done all my merges and helping out with X merges. Some minimal mentoring to Rodrigo that's moving his first steps really really fast.
   11:01 fabbione       * next week: complete the merges, start working full steam on the other specs, whatever is needed (!= X).
   11:01 mdz            fabbione: how long before you disappear?
   11:01 fabbione       mdz: -ENOCLUE
   11:01 mdz            but soon, no?
   11:02 fabbione       mdz: i did ask my wife for an ETA on delivery but she gave me a finger.. not a nice one :)
   11:02 mdz            heh
   11:02 fabbione       mdz: yes pretty soon
   11:02 sivang         hehe
   11:02 mdz            fabbione: dovecot -> dapper-updates?
   11:02 pitti          fabbione: *crossing fingers*, all the best
   11:02 Keybuk         fabbione: can she not cross her legs until UVF? :p
   11:02 sivang         fabbione: first child ?
   11:02 fabbione       mdz: yes. but we need the fix first for dovecot
   11:02 mdz            ok
   11:02 fabbione       pitti: thanks :)
   11:02 mdz            thanks fabbione
   11:03 fabbione       Keybuk: ahhaha
   11:03 mdz            sivang?
   11:03 fabbione       sivang: yeps
   11:03 sivang         mdz: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/make-free-space-wizard might need some more edits before approval, https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/home-user-backup seems ready to be approved. Ideally both of them should be targetted for edgy, however if I'm doing system clean up tool alone I'd need some help on some of the implementation.
   11:03 mdz            make-free-space-wizard still needs some work I think; I'll look at it today if I have some time
   11:04 sivang         basically that's is. I've started tackeling the merge thing this week, however so far only done bitorando and sponsered by slomo_ , might do more in the coming week.
   11:04 mdz            home-user-backup should be ready for approval if my comment was addressed
   11:04 mdz            sivang: thanks
   11:04 sivang         mdz: I believe they were all addressed.
   11:04 mdz            any other very quick business?
   11:04 mdz            did I miss anyone in the randomness?
   11:04 fabbione       sfllaw: moving the stuff from internal to external wiki?
   11:05 fabbione       there was only one vote from pitti
   11:05 rodarvus       +1
   11:05 fabbione       but i do vote for the movement too
   11:05 dholbach       sfllaw: hug day in two weeks?
   11:05 mdz            that's fine with me; the meeting is public and so the summaries can be as well
   11:05 ogra           +1
   11:05 iwj            We should move the distro meeting page, definitely.
   11:05 fabbione       (the DistroTeammeeting
   11:05 sfllaw         What about the DistroTeam page?
   11:05 sfllaw         That's sort of sitting by its lonesome in the Canonical wiki.
   11:05 mdz            no, that's a separate matter
   11:05 sfllaw         Fair enough.
   11:05 sfllaw         I'll move it.
   11:05 mdz            we don't publish employee data
   11:05 sivang         mdz: if you don't have time today, will we be able to address it tomorrow? I'm up whenever you can.
   11:05 sfllaw         dholbach: Yes.  A hug day in two weeks would be good.
   11:06 mdz            sivang: probably
   11:06 mdz            ok, we're over time
   11:06 mdz            thanks, everyone
   11:06 dholbach       sfllaw: cool
   11:06 mdz            adjourned
 
</pre>
