{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

There were no ACTION points from previous meeting to review.

===== Review progress made on the Roadmap items =====

Nobody reported any significant issue, which is good given our current position in the release cycle.

sommer noted that given that StringFreeze is in order and TranslationFreeze coming up very soon, from now on documentation fixes would rather apply to the next release and be done as a Jaunty SRU.

===== Open Discussion =====

ttx remembered everyone that FinalFreeze will be in effect starting this Thursday. So now is the last time to submit significant bugs and regressions so that they can be fixed without triggering exception procedures. 

egbert asked about further improvements of the postfix-dovecot mail system and ivoks replied that those will now apply to the next release cycle.

Finally ivoks reported that we all rock, but I think it's a duplicate since we already know that.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

After a brief discussion about moving the meetings to US afternoons, it was decided that US mornings (which means Europe afternoons) are still the best time to maximize meeting participation. So next meeting will still be on Tuesday, April 14th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <ttx> #startmeeting
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:01. The chair is ttx.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:02] <ttx> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <ttx> Last week logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090331
[16:02] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <ttx> That should be quick, since there weren't any.
[16:03] <ttx> Unless someone wants to comment on some of last meeting points ?
[16:04] <ttx> I'll suppose not. Let's move on to:
[16:04] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review progress made on the specification listed on the Roadmap
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review progress made on the specification listed on the Roadmap
[16:04] <ttx> Anyone has any progress reports ?
[16:05]  * ttx feels very lonely :)
[16:06] <sommer> it's just that things are going really well :)
[16:06] <jamesrfla> Not really sure what to say. First meeting with you guys
[16:06] <ttx> sommer: did you get some reviewing on the Server Guide ?
[16:06] <ttx> sommer: how much is it OK to change things after StringFreeze ?
[16:06] <sommer> ttx: yep there was some
[16:07] <sommer> ttx: at this point it's very bad I guess translation freeze is tomorrow
[16:07] <sommer> ttx: but we can always fix issues with the karmic branch :)
[16:07] <ttx> sommer: likewise-open 5 apparently requires reboot before you can attempt a GUI login as a domain user. I uploaded a version that warns the user, but I thought adding it to the doc might also be a good idea
[16:07] <ivoks> o/
[16:08] <sommer> ttx: ah, ya that will probably have to be in karmic
[16:08] <sommer> ttx: or an SRU
[16:08] <ttx> sommer: ok. A bug is filed anyway.
[16:08] <sommer> ttx: cool, I think I rember seeing it
[16:09] <ttx> OK, let's move to Open bar^Wdiscussion
[16:09] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open discussion
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open discussion
[16:09] <jamesrfla> what can we talk about in the open discussion?
[16:09] <ivoks> anything server related
[16:09] <ttx> jamesrfla: anything :)
[16:09] <ivoks> sorry for being late
[16:09] <ttx> So FinalFreeze is coming up this Thursday
[16:10] <ttx> if you have critical bugs (especially regressions) that have yet to be fixed, it's almost your last chance
[16:10] <jamesrfla> Does anybody have any suggestions for running two server os on one computer
[16:10] <ivoks> uh, already?
[16:11] <ttx> ivoks: April 9th
[16:11] <jamesrfla> hey that is my birthday ttx
[16:11] <ivoks> well, i sorted everything i had :)
[16:11] <egbert> Any chance that the postfix-dovecot mail system will be enhanced with amavis/spamassassin/etc?
[16:11] <ivoks> egbert: not for jaunty
[16:11] <egbert> offcause  not. but for KK?
[16:11] <ivoks> egbert: but that and much more should arrive in karmic
[16:12] <zul> if we dont work ivoks to the ground then then no
[16:12] <ivoks> it's not that i have that much to do
[16:12] <egbert> OK for the near future I'll install from .deb of taball
[16:13] <ivoks> tarball?
[16:13] <egbert> sorry...
[16:13] <ivoks> anyway, that's not meeting material
[16:13] <egbert> no
[16:13] <ttx> Nothing else anyone wants to mention ?
[16:14] <ivoks> i do
[16:14] <ivoks> we rock!
[16:14] <ivoks> :D
[16:14] <jamesrfla> lol
[16:14] <sommer> heeeh
[16:14] <ttx> \o/
[16:14] <jamesrfla> Go Ubuntu server :)
[16:15] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:15] <ttx> Same time, same bat-channel, next week ?
[16:15] <sommer> sure
[16:15] <jamesrfla> Can we make it another time or something. This time I can't make it
[16:16] <jamesrfla> The only reason I am hear today is because of my spring break
[16:16] <ttx> jamesrfla: what would be your availability ?
[16:16] <jamesrfla> Maybe 2PM eastern US time and any other time after that
[16:16] <ivoks> next week is spring break too
[16:16] <ivoks> jamesrfla: well, i don't want to be rude...
[16:16] <ivoks> but most of us are from europe
[16:16] <ivoks> :D
[16:17] <ivoks> 2pm eastern us is... quite late in europe
[16:17] <ttx> jamesrfla: team is across Europe/US so US mornings are the best time
[16:17] <jamesrfla> oh I see. Well just as long as you guys are okay with me not being hear all the time. Only days off I can make it
[16:17] <ivoks> s/most/part/
[16:18] <ttx> ok, so we'll keep the current time then
[16:18] <sommer> jamesrfla: there's a log, and the meeting minutes are usually posted to the server mailing list and blog
[16:19] <ttx> Anyone has anything else to add ?
[16:19] <ttx> Please ?
[16:19] <zul> i do...not really...hah kidding!
[16:19] <jamesrfla> okay sommer I will take a look at them when I miss the meeting
[16:19] <ttx> #endmeeting
</pre>
