{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''6th''' meeting of the '''Mozilla Team''', starting at 18:00 UTC and finished at 19:05 UTC

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT at the start of the meeting to ensure we are all clear who is online and paying attention.
Active Attendees:

* John Vivirito
* Freddy Martinez
* Alex Latchford
* H. Montoliu
* AlexanderSack

== Agenda ==
When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
 
Items we will be discussing:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Item
| Presenter
| Decision
|-
| GUI Consistency. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/42263|Bug 42263]]</nowiki>
| AlexLatchford
| Agreed to stick with just icons. Bug report closed.
|-
| Mozilla Testing Team
| AlexLatchford
| Deferred until next meeting, Asac & gnomefreak to discuss policies/responsibilities involved in membership.
|-
| Clue Files Progress
| Admiral_Chicago
| Waiting for improved bughelper infrastructure to sort out task lists. Then generating clues from MASTER bug titles; further evaluate to merge H. Montoliu scripts for stack recognition into bughelper code)
|-
| Mozilla Team Council
| Admiral_Cihcago
| Activated now that Feisty is out the door.
|}

== Minutes ==

== Any Other Business ==

* None.
  
----
CategoryMozillaTeam
