{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
02:13	sabdfl	so, let's look at the agenda
02:13	thoreauputic	bimberi: :)
02:14	sabdfl	are we in a position to take the IRC issue further?
=== bimberi strongly suspects that Seveas would want to be here for that
02:14	thoreauputic	sabdfl: you've probably seen seveas' comments elsewhere on that issue
02:15	Hobbsee	sabdfl: i *doubt* anyone's prepared for that, not having expected you to be here.
02:15	elmo	sabdfl: maybe we should defer that till UDS
=== Hobbsee pings nalioth
02:16	smurf	we have deferred that item for so long, three more weeks won't hurt any :-/
=== yarddog is present and listening..
02:16	elmo	sabdfl: I think it's something the whole CC should discuss (which we can't seem to do often) and would benefit from higher bandwidth
02:16	elmo	but *shrug*
02:17	Kamion	agree
02:17	sabdfl	for the record, i'm not convinced by the GetOffFreenodeSpec
02:17	sabdfl	it's light on substance
02:17	Kamion	I also felt uncomfortable discussing it immediately post lilo's death
02:17	jono	I agree to, and I think we need to talk about a phased move, if anything
02:17	elmo	GetOffFreenodeSpec was meant to be superseded by something more substanial
02:17	elmo	but apparently that never happened
02:17	Kamion	although obviously we can't defer it forever
02:17	thoreauputic	possibly peopel are reluctant to discuss it because it has potential for major disagreements
02:17	sabdfl	well, i think we take it off the CC agenda till someone does a better job of the proposal
02:18	jono	canonical channels moving seems a reasonable reason due to privacy, but I am not convinced by public channels moving
02:18	sabdfl	i don't think the canonical issue is sufficient justification
02:18	ogra	wasnt there a decision to move the -dvel channels already?
02:18	sabdfl	we could run a private SSL-based authenticated IRC server if we really wanted a closed loop
02:18	ogra	*-devel
02:18	Kamion	is everyone in Canonical who cares about the distro in a position to deal with multiple networks easily?
02:18	ogra	(in a former CC meeting)
02:18	sabdfl	we should be where our users and upstream developers are
02:18	Kamion	(I'd hope so)
02:19	jono	sabdfl, I agree - I just heard reports of security issues on freenode
02:19	sabdfl	Kamion: i think Gaim handles that
02:19	sabdfl	jono: irritations more than issues
02:19	jono	I think we need a better proposal as said though
02:19	elmo	sabdfl: well, Debian moved to oftc, they're arguably a large chunk of our upstream
02:19	thoreauputic	please notice that there are still over 600 people in #debian despite their move  - do we want aplit channels?
02:19	JanC	upstream developers are on several networks already (e.g. GNOME)
02:19	elmo	Kamion: yes
02:19	sabdfl	i'd like to propose we remove this from the agenda till someone has done a better rationale
02:19	jsgotangco	thoreauputic: however, that's not upstream channel
=== GnuKemist [n=omaciel@ubuntu/member/gnukemist] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:19	azeem	thoreauputic: that channel is the exception, all the others have moved
02:19	Kamion	sabdfl: I have no issues with that
02:19	elmo	the canonical stuff is indeed irrelevant - we are going to be running a private IRC server for that
02:20	sabdfl	ok, what's next?
02:20	sabdfl	localisation team leader
=== GnuKemist is now known as OgMaciel
02:20	OgMaciel	morning all
02:20	sabdfl	g'day OgMaciel :-)
02:20	thoreauputic	azeem: my point is simply that splitting  the community seems like a retrograde step
02:20	sabdfl	your timing is rather impeccable
02:20	OgMaciel	hehehe
02:20	OgMaciel	there was traffic
02:20	OgMaciel	just arrived at work
02:20	OgMaciel	;)
02:20	azeem	thoreauputic: it's the support channel, the community (i.e. #debian-devel) actually got *merged* by the move (it was split for years)
02:20	sabdfl	thoreauputic: agreed, but that's off the agenda now till / unless we get a new proposal
=== azeem shuts up
02:21	thoreauputic	sabdfl: yup - OK
02:21	sabdfl	so let's talk about ubuntu translations, and leadership
=== zakame [n=zakame@ubuntu/member/zakame] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:21	zakame	hi all
02:21	sabdfl	right now we have a pretty good infrastructure, in rosetta, though there are definitely issues there
02:22	sabdfl	some issues relate to how we coordinate with upstream - i think those are improving, socially and technically
02:22	sabdfl	some issues are to do with how teams are able to do QA on their membership
02:22	quail	evening all
02:22	sabdfl	keeping track of new suggestions and translations by members of the teams
02:22	sabdfl	for teams who KNOW how all this works, it is getting better quickly
02:22	sabdfl	but we don't have anyone leading, championing, translation in Ubuntu
02:22	sabdfl	this person or team would:
02:22	sabdfl	- help new translation teams get started
02:23	sabdfl	- communicate regularly with the translation teams about release status and translation priorities
02:23	sabdfl	   (i.e. "please translate Kamion's newest upload asap it cannot be updated post-release")
02:23	sabdfl	- help translation teams and LoCo teams coordinate with relevant upstreams, but telling them about best practice
=== pusakat [n=xenos@203.167.88.65] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:24	sabdfl	there's also a big opportunity to help improve the state of fontconfig and input method configuration in Ubuntu for many languages
02:24	Kamion	I'd also expect:
02:24	Kamion	- liaise with the development team regarding bugs/issues affecting translations
02:24	sabdfl	which requires working in many cases with the same groups of people
02:24	zakame	hmm something nearly like what bubulle does for debian, right?
02:25	jsgotangco	well we do get alerts from debian to "hey update this and that"
02:25	Kamion	zakame: bubulle and Denis Barbier and others, yes
02:25	sabdfl	elmo, mako, any other suggestions? zakame: yes, bubulle is great
02:26	Kamion	bubulle is very good at making sure translators are clued up on all their technical requirements, and if necessary setting up systems to simplify and automate those
02:26	sabdfl	jsgotangco: we notice updates when we sync in new work from debian
02:26	Kamion	so I'd hope that an Ubuntu translation coordinator would also help to liaise with the Launchpad team regarding blocking issues for translators
02:27	Hobbsee	(as a sidenote:  if that someone could deal with the rosetta/kde upstream relationship too, that'd be good.)
02:27	sabdfl	OgMaciel: do you want to tell us a bit about yourself, and how you see the role, and what you would bring to it?
02:27	OgMaciel	sabdfl: sure thing
02:27	sabdfl	Hobbsee: i think the rosetta guys are speaking directly with kde upstream
02:27	Hobbsee	sabdfl: oh good.  
=== Hobbsee has heard kde upstream's opinions on it, but that's offtopic :)
02:27	OgMaciel	sabdfl: I feel very "attracted" to this role, since my involvement with Ubuntu has always been related to translation and advocacy
02:28	OgMaciel	sabdfl: I have formed some ideas about how things should be for things to *just work*
02:28	OgMaciel	things that require a lot of flexibility from all parties
02:28	sabdfl	OgMaciel: do you have much experience with .po, gettext, fontconfig, scim?
02:29	OgMaciel	sabdfl: not extensive for the bulk of my work has been done through Rosetta
02:29	OgMaciel	sabdfl: but I do thing Rosetta has the potential to lessen the learning curve there
02:30	OgMaciel	that is the beauty of things
02:30	sabdfl	part of this job is social - leadership and communication and advocacy
02:30	OgMaciel	if we all can get together and talk to upstream folks, we could have a system that would benefit everyone
02:30	sabdfl	part of it is technical
02:30	jono	OgMaciel, what impact would the role have with your duties in your LoCo team?
02:30	sabdfl	do you think that should be split into two roles?
02:31	OgMaciel	jono: I have thought of that... and I believe it is time for someone else take the leadership of pt_BR LoCo...  someone local
02:31	jono	OgMaciel, ok
=== MagicFab [n=fabian@modemcable035.165-57-74.mc.videotron.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:32	OgMaciel	sabdfl: I actually see this as a sub-group activity
02:32	OgMaciel	sabdfl: a couple of guys sharing these responsibilities
02:32	sabdfl	OgMaciel: what would you say you have learned from the pt_BR experience?
02:33	OgMaciel	sabdfl: in terms of translations, I noticed that a few things need to be changed as far as nomenclature goes, in order for people to feel they're part of something
02:33	OgMaciel	sabdfl: the word "leader" and "oficial" throws people off
02:33	Kamion	OgMaciel: how comfortable would you be liaising with the development team, and how would you go about identifying and addressing problems affecting translations?
02:34	OgMaciel	Kamion: for one thing, I'd set up regular meetings where groups could get together and discuss issues
=== merlin_the_great [n=quail@unaffiliated/quaillinux/x-000001] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:34	OgMaciel	Kamion: it would also serve as a source of sharing info
=== stgraber [n=stgraber@client80-83-51-125.abo.net2000.ch] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:35	OgMaciel	I also believe it is extremelly important to get upstream more involved
02:35	Kamion	as in translation groups, or translators+developers, or somewhere in between?
02:35	jsgotangco	why not revive the traffic in the -translators list as well
02:35	OgMaciel	jsgotangco: +1
02:35	OgMaciel	Kamion: between
02:35	OgMaciel	I envision a worldwide repository of translations
02:36	OgMaciel	where upstream would step up
02:36	OgMaciel	and actually stear things
02:36	OgMaciel	I would gladly take their experience in account
02:36	OgMaciel	make upstream pristine
02:37	OgMaciel	and make Rosetta a never ending source of suggestions
02:37	jono	OgMaciel, how would you resolve conflict?
02:37	OgMaciel	jono: I would make upstream pristine and the default translation
=== omera [n=krep@62.24.113.42] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:37	OgMaciel	jono: and would sit down with them
02:37	OgMaciel	upstream that is
02:38	OgMaciel	and lock them up until they were convinced to jump in and help us turn Rosetta into a repository of suggestions
02:38	OgMaciel	and have them teach us their methods
02:38	OgMaciel	and speed things up
02:38	sabdfl	easy, OgMaciel, i don't think you should base your plans on huge changes in rosetta
02:39	OgMaciel	sabdfl: got carried away there
02:39	OgMaciel	;)
02:39	sabdfl	most of what we are looking at now is not based on rosetta, but on community leadership and coordination
02:39	joeCoT	or extreme cooperation from upstream :)
02:39	OgMaciel	hehe
02:39	sabdfl	getting carried away won't help - we're really looking for someone who can coordinate and lead the existing effort
02:40	jsgotangco	OgMaciel: most people will actually tell you how efficient doing translations in cvs is compared to rosetta despite the extremely low learning curve
02:40	OgMaciel	well, I would suggest that people get a hold of their respective upstream groups and initiate some communication
02:40	jono	OgMaciel, exactly, this role really requires diplomacy at all levels
02:40	OgMaciel	jono: agreed
02:40	sabdfl	i think it most requires patience and diligence, together with some champion-advocacy
02:40	Kamion	phone
02:40	Hobbsee	OgMaciel: which is difficult when they tell you that it's a waste of time to be using rosetta?  How do you deal with such things?
=== gnomefre1k [n=gnomefre@adsl-144-154-29.rmo.bellsouth.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:41	OgMaciel	Hobbsee: I usually show them Rosetta in action
02:41	OgMaciel	Hobbsee: for instance
02:41	Hobbsee	ouch, my timing is a litle bad, sorry.
=== Belutz [n=belutz@ubuntu/member/belutz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:41	OgMaciel	Hobbsee: I would pick a string that is considered to be inaccurate
02:41	Belutz	is the loco meeting started yet?
02:42	OgMaciel	Hobbsee: and would show them how to "fix" it
02:42	OgMaciel	Hobbsee: and I would approve the fix
02:42	gnomefre1k	Belutz: this is the CC meeting
=== Kamping_Kaiser [n=kgoetz@easyubuntu/docteam/kgoetz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:42	OgMaciel	Hobbsee: get the PO, do a switch-a-roo, and voila'
02:42	Hobbsee	Belutz: just over 2 more hours
02:42	Belutz	gnomefre1k: oopss, must be the time difference
02:42	jono	Belutz, not for a while yet
=== cyphase_ [n=cyphase@ppp-67-119-186-142.dialup.pltn13.pacbell.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:43	OgMaciel	sabdfl: there is only one major issue for me
02:43	OgMaciel	sabdfl: time
02:43	OgMaciel	this is a somewhat huge task
02:44	OgMaciel	and my new job doesn't give me a lot of free time
02:44	sabdfl	it is a big responsibility, yes
02:44	jsgotangco	but i think you don't need a one-to-one conversation to do most of the work
02:44	OgMaciel	so I'm here to support maybe someone else to take the role... and I would do my best to support this individual
02:44	Kamion	OgMaciel: is your new job free-software-friendly?
02:44	OgMaciel	Kamion: extremelly friendly
02:44	OgMaciel	;)
02:45	Kamion	that often helps
02:45	OgMaciel	my boss is very easy going
=== licio [n=licio@ubuntu/member/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:45	OgMaciel	and we are on IRC all the time
02:46	OgMaciel	I guess for starters, starting regular meetings for translators could get the ball rolling
02:46	OgMaciel	rosetta guys could also attend them
02:46	jono	it might be an idea to get an idea for minimum time commitment for the role and see if OgMaciel can satisfy that
=== omera [n=krep@62.24.113.42] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== amachu [n=amachu@61.247.245.87] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:47	OgMaciel	jono: I like the sound of that
02:47	OgMaciel	I am more than willing to step into this position
02:47	sabdfl	yes, we could definitely get the rosetta guys to those meetings
02:48	amachu	hi all
02:48	amachu	Sri Ramadoss alias amachu here
02:48	amachu	has the meeting started?
02:48	mindspin	cc already
02:49	OgMaciel	we could start holding some online "classes" for translators too
=== omera [n=krep@62.24.113.42] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:50	Hobbsee	OgMaciel: hooking up with the ubuntu classroom people, maybe?
=== purserj [n=purserj@29.124.233.220.exetel.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:50	OgMaciel	Hobbsee: asolutely  ;)
02:50	OgMaciel	absolutely
02:52	jsgotangco	are there any questions for OgMaciel?
02:52	jsgotangco	any more
02:52	jono	if no decision is being made today, can I suggest the applicants for this position maybe write up a wiki page with their plans, experience etc for further discussion
02:52	jsgotangco	jono: +1
02:52	jsgotangco	but amachu is here already might as well give him a chance as well since OgMaciel did say his piece
02:53	mindspin	Isn't it an issue between those who did translation work for other projects and those who stumble into rosetta and start doing translations "from the bottom line"?
02:53	OgMaciel	jsgotangco: +1
=== merlin_the_great [n=quail@unaffiliated/quaillinux/x-000001] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["sudo]
02:53	sabdfl	amachu: we are discussing the translation leadership position
=== OgMaciel would love to hear amachu's ideas
02:53	amachu	sabdfl: yes
02:53	sabdfl	could you introduce yourself, tell us a little bit about your experience with translation, fontconfig, input methods, etc
02:53	sabdfl	also, contributions and participation in ubuntu translation
02:53	amachu	yes..
02:53	sabdfl	and how you would lead such an effort?
02:54	amachu	shall i start?
02:54	sabdfl	yes please!
02:54	Kamion	sabdfl: perhaps it would be fair to repeat your intro from earlier?
02:54	sabdfl	i must unfortunately step into another meeting now.
02:54	amachu	I am sri ramadas, contact person of Ubuntu Tamil Team
02:54	sabdfl	Kamion: ok, can I paste?
02:54	Kamion	sure
02:54	sabdfl	(13:21:46) sabdfl: so let's talk about ubuntu translations, and leadership
02:54	sabdfl	(13:21:55) zakame [n=zakame@ubuntu/member/zakame]  entered the room.
02:54	sabdfl	(13:21:58) sabdfl: right now we have a pretty good infrastructure, in rosetta, though there are definitely issues there
02:54	sabdfl	(13:21:58) zakame: hi all
02:54	sabdfl	(13:22:17) sabdfl: some issues relate to how we coordinate with upstream - i think those are improving, socially and technically
02:54	sabdfl	(13:22:28) sabdfl: some issues are to do with how teams are able to do QA on their membership
02:54	sabdfl	(13:22:32) quail: evening all
02:54	sabdfl	(13:22:38) sabdfl: keeping track of new suggestions and translations by members of the teams
=== Tonio__ [n=tonio@214.207.103-84.rev.gaoland.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:54	sabdfl	(13:22:48) sabdfl: for teams who KNOW how all this works, it is getting better quickly
02:54	sabdfl	(13:22:56) sabdfl: but we don't have anyone leading, championing, translation in Ubuntu
02:54	sabdfl	(13:23:01) sabdfl: this person or team would:
02:54	sabdfl	(13:23:08) sabdfl:  - help new translation teams get started
=== Yann2 [n=Yann2@88.134.146.179] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:54	sabdfl	(13:23:25) sabdfl:  - communicate regularly with the translation teams about release status and translation priorities
02:54	amachu	we started in august and is now twelve in number
02:54	sabdfl	(13:23:43) sabdfl:    (i.e. "please translate Kamion's newest upload asap it cannot be updated post-release")
02:55	sabdfl	(13:24:10) sabdfl:  - help translation teams and LoCo teams coordinate with relevant upstreams, but telling them about best practice
02:55	sabdfl	(13:24:35) sabdfl: there's also a big opportunity to help improve the state of fontconfig and input method configuration in Ubuntu for many languages
02:55	sabdfl	(13:24:37) Kamion: I'd also expect:
02:55	sabdfl	(13:24:38) Kamion:  - liaise with the development team regarding bugs/issues affecting translations
02:55	sabdfl	(13:24:44) sabdfl: which requires working in many cases with the same groups of people
02:55	sabdfl	(13:24:59) zakame: hmm something nearly like what bubulle does for debian, right?
02:55	amachu	we perform translation on rosetta,
02:55	sabdfl	(13:25:19) jsgotangco: well we do get alerts from debian to "hey update this and that"
02:55	sabdfl	(13:25:22) Kamion: zakame: bubulle and Denis Barbier and others, yes
02:55	sabdfl	(13:25:23) sabdfl: elmo, mako, any other suggestions? zakame: yes, bubulle is great
02:55	sabdfl	that's it
02:55	sabdfl	i'll read scrollback later
02:55	amachu	hi.. sabdfl: listening to me?
02:55	sabdfl	cheers all
02:55	zakame	cheers sabdfl
02:55	sabdfl	amachu: yes, the rest of the group is, i need to step afk
02:55	OgMaciel	take care sabdfl
02:56	Belutz	cheers sabdfl :)
02:56	Fujitsu	Bye, sabdfl_afk!
02:56	jono	later sabdfl_afk
02:56	amachu	We all in our Team use SCIM input method for Translation
02:56	amachu	www.ubuntu-tam.org is our website
02:57	amachu	Now, my opinions of Translations and plans...
=== MehdiHassanpour [n=MehdiHas@85.198.25.238] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:57	amachu	1) We need to have strong back up of vocalulary of local language, to carry out translation
02:57	amachu	vocabulary
02:58	amachu	so we tied up with Tamil Wiktionary, a Wikipedia project, to collect English words and theri corresponding Tamil words
02:59	OgMaciel	cool
03:00	amachu	http://ta.wiktionary.org/
03:00	jsgotangco	amachu: how would you work on upstream with regards to translations, not just with tamil?
=== j_ack [n=rudi@p508D84BB.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:01	amachu	we find the way we work in Tamil is paying dividends and can be applied to other teams also
03:02	amachu	Rosetta as such has one disadvantage as far as developing countries..
03:02	zakame	brb
03:02	amachu	unavailabity of broad band connections...
03:03	amachu	so colleges and other educational institutions are the key
03:04	jsgotangco	amachu: im sorry but most of these are infrastructural and the position of translation team leader is more social in nature (but there are some technical issues as well), the model the tamil team adopts may not be as successful to other teams, for various reasons and require nurturing
03:04	amachu	sure
03:04	amachu	jsgotangco: I agree
03:05	Kamion	amachu: we'd like to hear more about how you'd liaise with other teams (including Ubuntu development and Rosetta), train new translators, that ort of thing
03:05	Kamion	ort -> sort
03:07	amachu	Kamion: training new translators, we should have pre-prepared documents on training tools.. the transalating tools like KBabel, GTranslator...
03:09	amachu	Next, All the words that have bee translated uptill now should be available for download collectively (one time download), since brb is not readily available..
03:09	Kamion	have you done anything to date that involved working with code changes required to support translations better?
03:09	OgMaciel	I think amachu touched an important part, which is getting more documents about *best practices* for performing translations using Rosetta, etc
03:10	jono	agreed
03:10	OgMaciel	it would be interesting getting LoCo teams that share some of the languages, like spanish for instance, together
03:10	amachu	no not as yet...
03:10	OgMaciel	there's a slight chance that they could benefit from each others efforts
03:11	amachu	Now if all translations done uptil now are available then huge amount of time will be saved in re-translating the same word
03:11	amachu	Rosetta does that but brb is concern
03:11	Kamion	"brb"?
03:12	amachu	broad band connectivity
03:12	OgMaciel	maybe someone could start a thread titled: "How we [LoCo team name goes here]  operate"?
03:12	amachu	Kbabel is the best tool we have witnessed
=== Czubek [n=Damian@a228.t15.ds.pwr.wroc.pl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:12	amachu	it comes with Dictinary management services
03:14	fouadbajwa	a small question, shouldn't there be a feature in Launchpad for a team admin to be able to send a message to all team members
03:14	amachu	so, if the teams could download the PO file that contains all translations, add it to their local Kabel dictionary, half the time is saved...
03:14	fouadbajwa	i know the LoCo team lists are there
03:14	fouadbajwa	but still
03:15	Kamion	fouadbajwa: I think that's off-topic here; #launchpad, or a bug report
03:15	fouadbajwa	oh
03:15	fouadbajwa	i was asking in light of LoCo Teams
03:15	amachu	now Teams should be encouraged to create communities dedicated for a particular application
03:15	fouadbajwa	seeking suggestion
03:15	fouadbajwa	whether to propose or not
03:15	OgMaciel	fouadbajwa: please do file a feature request about that :)
03:15	Kamion	ok
03:16	fouadbajwa	okay, this has to be done at #launchpad right
03:16	amachu	so that their translation of a particular application doesn't get obsolete when a new version of that application is released
03:16	JanC	that bug rapport exists and is a year old or something like that  :)
03:16	Kamion	amachu: thanks for your comments; I think the CC will need some time to consider the applications
03:16	fouadbajwa	i think if all of the teamleads here propose
03:16	fouadbajwa	it might just wokr
03:16	OgMaciel	fouadbajwa: correct... let me know in pvt if you need help with that
03:16	fouadbajwa	work
03:16	Kamion	so we will report either next meeting, or after the conference in Mountain View
03:16	fouadbajwa	hmm,
03:16	fouadbajwa	right
03:17	Kamion	elmo: any idea whether sabdfl's going to be back for locoteam/membership?
03:17	elmo	Kamion: no, he's appeared but already run off to another meeting
03:17	elmo	how about we use this opportunity to trial jono
03:17	amachu	Kamion: Thank U
03:17	jono	elkbuntu, surwe
03:17	jono	sure
03:17	Kamion	certainly for locoteams, at least
03:17	fouadbajwa	haha
03:18	elmo	get him to act as 3rd, and have sabdfl ok that and/or the applicants later?
03:18	fouadbajwa	we don't have to trial Jono
03:18	Kamion	(we've never been too bothered about strict voting requirements on those)
=== elkbuntu redirects the comment
03:18	fouadbajwa	he has already proved his mark
03:18	fouadbajwa	with the Official Ubuntu Guide ;)
03:18	fouadbajwa	have you all read the guide
03:18	elmo	ok, so let's do locoteams
03:19	fouadbajwa	does anyone have a pdf version of the Official Ubuntu Book?
=== Kamping_Kaiser [n=kgoetz@easyubuntu/docteam/kgoetz] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["bedtime.]
03:19	fouadbajwa	i have chm version
03:19	jsgotangco	fouadbajwa: please OT
03:19	jono	right can I make a few points about loco's first?
03:19	amachu	fouadbajwa: the desktop guide?
03:19	gnomefreak	fouadbajwa: i think thats a bit offtopic for this meeting
03:19	fouadbajwa	okay
03:19	elmo	jono: sure
03:20	jono	I have restructured how LoCos get approved a little - they still need to go before the CC, but I have written https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved and ask them to make an approval wiki page
03:20	jono	this gives CC members and others a good way of looking at an application
03:20	jono	if the CC are ok with it, I would like to make this a requirement to be approved
03:21	jono	it makes the process quicker and clearer
03:21	jono	LoCo teams can liase with me to get their approval pages written and up to scratch
=== TheMuso [n=luke@ubuntu/member/themuso] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
03:21	jono	when they are done, we can present them at a CC meeting such as this and make a decent decision - I will then move teams to the approved status if required
03:22	jono	thats it really :)
03:22	jono	just so everyone was clear on what I have been doing :)
=== lucas [n=lucas@ubuntu/member/lucas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:22	jono	ok, so lets look at each team
=== Ekushey is from the Bangladeshi Team
03:23	jono	should we do Bangledeshi team then :)
03:23	jono	did youy guys want to say a few things to support your application?
03:23	Ekushey	jono: like what?
03:24	Kamion	jono: I am entirely OK with that procedure. Also worth noting that we like to see that the team is broadly secure in its structure (i.e. no major conflicts over leadership, etc.)
03:24	jono	Kamion, right
03:24	Kamion	which brings us rather neatly to the Bangladeshi team ;)
03:24	jono	have their been leadership issues here?
03:25	Kamion	jono: see last meeting's log
03:25	Kamion	Ekushey: btw, yes, your mail arrived, sorry nobody replied to say that
03:25	Ekushey	Kamion: there isn't any leadership or other kind of conflicts. it's just that this guys named MAK doesn't like me personally so he says all crap.
03:26	Kamion	Ekushey: perhaps I should have said alleged conflict
03:26	Ekushey	Kamion: did that guy wrote to CC?
03:26	Kamion	give me a chance to check my archives here
=== jono reads the log
03:26	elmo	I can't see anything
03:27	Ekushey	Kamion: so can we get our team approved? we've been waiting for a long time now.
03:27	Kamion	Ekushey: HANG ON :-)
03:27	Ekushey	ok
03:28	Kamion	OK, so Ekushey's mail seems entirely reasonable to me; it appears to be a grudge that should not be relevant to the Ubuntu team
03:28	Kamion	makl10n has not mailed us to defend himself
03:29	Ekushey	Kamion: i don't understand why he's after me :(
03:29	Ekushey	Kamion: he keeps on sending me hate mails
03:29	jono	I don't think I can comment either way as I am not familar with the conflict
03:29	jono	application looks reasonable, would be nice to see a bit more experience
03:29	Kamion	so I think at this point we should consider that conflict irrelevant
03:29	Kamion	elmo: ?
03:30	elmo	agreed
03:30	jono	sounds reasonable
03:30	jono	Ekushey, do you lead the team?
03:30	Ekushey	jono: yes
03:30	jono	Ekushey, the IRC channel seems very empty
03:31	Ekushey	jono: irc isn't very popular in bangladesh
03:31	jono	right
03:31	jono	the list also seem fairly quiet
03:31	Ekushey	jono: i've mailed and asked ppl to join the irc channel but appearently they don't like it much
03:31	jono	I think I would recommend building up the groups communication channels
03:32	jono	Ekushey, sure, but I think it would be wise to encourage discussion on the mailing list
03:32	jono	I would see an approved team having a certain amount of information flow going on
=== GaRyu [n=dan-erik@h81172171154.kund.kommunicera.umea.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:32	Ekushey	jono: we've started doing monthly meetings, and i'm sure it'll help
03:32	jono	the work you are doing Ekushey looks great, I just think it maybe needs a touch more to get things rolling
03:32	jono	Ekushey, excellent :)
03:33	Ekushey	jono: we had our first meeting yesterday, 13 joined
03:33	jono	Ekushey, fantastic, that is the kind of stuff to get things moving
03:33	Ekushey	jono: i'm trying
03:33	Ekushey	jono: i'm trying my best
03:33	jono	I would recommend you keep doing these things to build up the communication and defer approval for a little while
03:33	Ekushey	jono: oh ok.
03:34	jono	not sure what the CC think though
=== swatje [n=swatje@198.161-201-80.adsl-dyn.isp.belgacom.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:34	jono	Ekushey, I don't want to dishearten you, but I think you are 80% there and just need to get the communication flowing on your mailing list
=== Swaps [n=swatje@kotnet-146.kulnet.kuleuven.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:35	Ekushey	jono: 56 signed up on the list, but they don't reply my posts
03:35	Ekushey	jono: i got your point
=== MagicFab [n=fabian@modemcable035.165-57-74.mc.videotron.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:35	Kamion	I think if they're on the right direction, rather than having to go through another round of meetings, maybe we should just monitor for a while and only bring them back if there seems to be a problem
03:35	jono	Ekushey, well we can have a chat about how to get things rolling
03:35	Kamion	does that sound reasonable?
03:36	jono	Kamion, you mean approve with a probationary period sort of thing?
03:36	jono	I am happy to keep an eye on what they are doing an approve it then if needed
03:36	Kamion	yeah, I'm kind of thinking out loud
03:37	jono	so if the CC are happy with the structure of the group (which seems sound) - I can then finally approve when the comunication is up and running
03:38	Kamion	I'm provisionally OK, pending comment from elmo/sabdfl
03:38	jono	ok
=== GaRyu [n=dan-erik@h81172171154.kund.kommunicera.umea.se] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
=== quail [n=quail@unaffiliated/quaillinux/x-000001] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Fry:]
03:38	Ekushey	so we'll have to wait longer, right?
03:38	elmo	works fo rme
03:39	jono	Ekushey, approval is not the end game, getting an active LoCo is
=== Lure [n=lure@ubuntu/member/lure] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:39	jono	Ekushey, we are saying that you are provisionally approved - you just need to get more communication going and then I will finally approve it :)
03:39	Ekushey	jono: alright i understand, thanks
03:40	jono	Ekushey, :)
03:40	Kamion	Ekushey: aim of this exercise is that you won't have to sit through another CC meeting as long as you're still basically on the right lines :)
03:40	jono	exactamundo
03:40	Ekushey	thanks Kamion
03:40	Ekushey	thanks to elmo too
03:40	jono	are we going to wait for sabdfl's views for when he gets back?
03:41	Kamion	he can fill us in later
03:41	jono	ok
03:41	jono	so, Belgian team
03:41	looksaus	ok...
03:42	jono	the application looks excellent
03:42	JanC	here  :)
03:42	Swaps	here
03:42	looksaus	have a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeamApprovalApplication
03:42	jono	how is leadership in the team folks?
03:43	looksaus	officially, at the beginning, there was Lionel "ploum" Dricot
03:43	looksaus	he got quite a few ubuntu-minded people together in february 2006
03:44	JanC	(during FOSDEM)
03:44	looksaus	at FOSDEM, a free and open source developer meeting
03:44	looksaus	he seemed to have little spare time and things
03:44	jono	right
03:45	JanC	so now looksaus is pulling us forward  :)
03:45	looksaus	so in may, I brought people together for preparing press attention for the Dapper release and things
03:45	looksaus	Lionel seems to like that
03:45	looksaus	for the little we've still heard of him
03:45	jono	so it sounds like a happy relationship
03:45	looksaus	yes
03:45	jono	well its a +1 for me
03:46	jono	you guys some to be doing a rocking job
03:46	looksaus	heh, thx...
03:47	Kamion	the Belgian team has been around for a long time, and I've never heard any complaints
03:47	Kamion	the support points map is a neat idea and seems to have a fair bit of participation; great
03:47	MagicFab	looksaus, what is the licence of the maps / support app ?
03:47	looksaus	free software, of course, with an invitation for other teams to join in on the development
03:48	looksaus	https://launchpad.net/people/mapdevs/+branch/support.points.map/dev
03:48	MagicFab	looksaus, it would be nice to make that clear either on lp or the site (or both)
03:48	jono	could I encourage the belgian team to write about the support points map on loco-contacts so other groups can set up a similar thing
03:48	looksaus	jono, have done so already
03:48	JanC	of course
03:48	looksaus	:)
03:48	jono	oh cool :)
03:48	looksaus	you were on holiday
03:48	jono	is there a HOWTO of how to do it?
03:49	looksaus	the code behind the running thing is really simple, but a bit messy
03:49	Kamion	worth getting somebody to package it, maybe
03:49	jono	ok, we can discuss this later :)
03:49	JanC	currently there is the old, currently running code and the new version which is not ready yet
03:49	jono	elmo, thoughts on the belgian approval?
03:49	looksaus	what's there on new code is very clean, with clear use cases behind it
03:50	looksaus	it's almost ready for general use in other locoteams
03:51	MagicFab	looksaus, that URL doesn't offer a package, nor the licence in a clear way, would love to see that (for use in 2 locoteams I help with)
03:51	looksaus	ah, maybe a bit special about our locoteam is that we would like to have JanC
03:51	looksaus	as our main locoteams contact
=== Lie_Ex [n=lieex@222.92.109.226] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
03:51	elmo	jono: looks fine to me
03:51	looksaus	so no me
03:51	elmo	sorry, was afk
03:51	jono	can we do the pakistani team now as fouadbajwa must leave for prayers in 20 mins
03:51	looksaus	so not me...
03:51	fouadbajwa	hi again
03:52	jono	ok we will wait for sabdfl's views until he returns
03:52	Kamion	looksaus: shouldn't be a problem
03:52	fouadbajwa	sure
03:52	looksaus	k, thx
03:52	elmo	jono: I think we can assume loco teams are ok with the 3 of us
03:52	Kamion	looksaus: you're Mark van den Borre?
03:52	looksaus	yes
03:52	jono	ok
03:52	jono	elmo, sounds cool
03:53	jono	this approval application is astonishingly detailed
03:53	fouadbajwa	we got Ubuntu rolling with 4800 certified Ubuntu Linux users in the market endorsed by the Government of Pakistan, Government of Punjab, University of the Punjab
03:53	jsgotangco	4800 wow
03:53	fouadbajwa	215,000 Free CDs rolling in the market
03:54	fouadbajwa	and we did a visit to CD vendors
03:54	looksaus	sponsored by local government?
03:54	fouadbajwa	place boxes everywhere
03:54	fouadbajwa	yes
03:54	jsgotangco	double wow
03:54	fouadbajwa	The Govt of Pak and the Pakistan Telecommunications Authority and the Higher Education Commission are considering Ubuntu to be loaded into the government
03:54	jono	fouadbajwa, tell us about leadership
03:55	fouadbajwa	We have two leaders at the moment, since i am in Punjab in the provincial capital, the other team leader is for translation l10n Urdu
03:55	MagicFab	fouadbajwa, is there any difference between work done/endorsed by fossfp.org and the Loco Team itself ?
03:55	fouadbajwa	we are now starting 2 meetups atleast per month
03:55	fouadbajwa	from my city first
03:56	fouadbajwa	i have been able to form a consortium of companies to participate
03:56	fouadbajwa	ISVs are on our hitlist
03:56	fouadbajwa	Mark advised me to focus on ISVs when he visited us in January this year
03:56	fouadbajwa	8000 telecenters are also in pipeline
03:56	jsgotangco	does the locoteam itself = fossfp.org?
03:56	fouadbajwa	no
03:56	fouadbajwa	FOSSFP is just an enabler
03:57	fouadbajwa	a voluntary associate of Scholars, Govt people, Students, Professional users
03:57	fouadbajwa	they push anything thats FOSS
03:57	fouadbajwa	working with the United Nations
03:57	fouadbajwa	at civil society level
03:57	jono	fouadbajwa, there seems to be an awful lot of ideas, but how many get achieved?
03:57	fouadbajwa	but have heavy influence in govts and all
03:58	fouadbajwa	most of them are already achieved, not ideas, i have sent in reports
03:58	fouadbajwa	and the canonical team has met with the govt leaders and IT industry
03:58	jono	right
03:58	fouadbajwa	we are now supporting the ecosystem through making available
03:58	jono	fouadbajwa, any problems in the group?
=== MehdiHassanpour [n=MehdiHas@217.218.100.25] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:58	fouadbajwa	technical support and more participation in localization efforts
03:58	fouadbajwa	a bit
03:58	fouadbajwa	Urdu
03:58	fouadbajwa	not many people speak english
03:59	jono	any conflicts with other members?
03:59	fouadbajwa	and software piracy
03:59	fouadbajwa	there are some conflicts that get settled with communication
03:59	jono	right
03:59	fouadbajwa	and the result of a recent one has been that the member was allowed leadership so that he could experience the real issues
03:59	jono	well this looks all very good to me
03:59	fouadbajwa	its better to let them take lead
03:59	jono	I know fouadbajwa has worked very hard
03:59	fouadbajwa	and see it for themselves
04:00	jono	so its a +1 for me
04:00	fouadbajwa	i would also like to mention here
04:00	fouadbajwa	that our region is south asia
04:00	elmo	ack from me too
04:00	MagicFab	Pardon my intrusion, but I don't see anything explicitly defining a Loco team for Pakistan vs. FPSSFP.org + Canonical. See: http://www.fossfp.org/ubuntupakistan
04:00	fouadbajwa	Magic that is very old information from last year
04:01	fouadbajwa	we were then advised from Canonical and the Ubuntu community to take the team out in the public
=== craigaa [n=craigaa@dsl-145-113-29.telkomadsl.co.za] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:01	fouadbajwa	i will have fossfp remove that information
04:01	jono	fouadbajwa, how does FOSSWP and ubuntu-pk differ?
04:01	fouadbajwa	as it is no valid now
04:01	MagicFab	Ubuntu is about more than "just open source / free software" which would seem to go agains FOSSFP.org mission / objectives. Can that be clarified ? We have similar issues for local groups here (QC, Canada)
04:01	jsgotangco	just a question, how does fossfp and iosn south asia cooperate at the moment (i know its pretty OT)
04:01	fouadbajwa	like i said FOSSFP only housed the team for a few days during the national FOSS awareness campaign
04:01	fouadbajwa	giving us 600 computers, 600 volunteers and 22 Ubuntu trainres
=== Gadi [n=romm@static-71-249-255-248.nycmny.east.verizon.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:02	fouadbajwa	after that it was moved out of the University and has been operating independently building more community members from the open
04:02	fouadbajwa	now within the meetups from november
04:03	fouadbajwa	we will be engaging at an average 10 new members per month
04:03	fouadbajwa	and as the telecenter initiative rolls out
04:03	jsgotangco	for all its worth a lot of ubuntu advocacy has been done for sure
04:03	MagicFab	fouadbajwa, I feel it needs clarification unless today you are proposing to forma a distinct, independent group not necessarily 100% aligned with FOSSP.org
04:03	fouadbajwa	we can imagine the number of Ubuntu system admins
04:03	fouadbajwa	Magic, there is no FOSSFP any more with Ubuntu-pk
04:04	fouadbajwa	it only supported it
04:04	fouadbajwa	in terms of infrastructure and advocacy
04:04	MagicFab	fouadbajwa, that sound great! So it's only misunderstanding from outdated info.
04:04	fouadbajwa	FOSSFP is a UNCTAD partner for developing world countries
04:04	fouadbajwa	it works in all of south asia
04:04	elmo	fouadbajwa: Jane Silber has some concerns about the language on that page WRT Canonical - could you be sure to coordinate with her about getting those resolved?
04:04	fouadbajwa	i only do reports for them now
04:04	fouadbajwa	no official status
04:04	elmo	(the FOSSFP page, I mean)
04:04	fouadbajwa	yes elmo
04:05	elmo	fouadbajwa: ok, good, thanks
04:05	fouadbajwa	i am sending a note to fossfp for complete removal
04:05	MagicFab	I also think FOSSFP.org and ubuntu-pk.org badly need updating before getting any official team status.
04:05	fouadbajwa	and if there are any more issues, they will meet resolution immediately
04:05	fouadbajwa	yes Jono and Mathew are working with me
04:05	fouadbajwa	since we had no Moin Moin expertise
04:05	fouadbajwa	we have ported to drupal
04:06	fouadbajwa	we are working on the drupal site now
04:06	fouadbajwa	smurf has been notified about the new dns changes
04:06	fouadbajwa	that will soon point to the new ubuntu-pk.org
04:06	MagicFab	ubuntu-pk.org has 0 content, so I guess there are plans to move things there eventually
04:06	fouadbajwa	and u will all be pleased to see Ubuntu in full bloom
04:06	fouadbajwa	oh
04:06	fouadbajwa	if you can make host changes to your host file, i will give you the IP of the new siet
04:07	fouadbajwa	site, that should be pointed to the new settings within this week
04:07	MagicFab	fouadbajwa, no rush, just asking.
04:07	fouadbajwa	Jono can u back the detail of the ubuntu-pk.org that Mathew and i have been ccing :)
04:07	jono	yes
=== finalbeta [n=finalbet@d5152A68A.access.telenet.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:07	fouadbajwa	no problems Magic, i am here to clarify anything
04:07	jono	there has been some discussion about setting up the site
04:08	fouadbajwa	the theme has been contributed from Ubuntu Chicago
04:08	fouadbajwa	wiki has been loaded by the Ubuntu webmaster
04:08	jono	fouadbajwa, so all of the experience and roadmap on the application is part of ubuntu-pk?
04:08	jsgotangco	heh the universal ubuntu drupal theme heh
04:08	fouadbajwa	yes, no more fossfp :)
04:08	fouadbajwa	yeah great work Chicago
04:08	fouadbajwa	!
04:08	fouadbajwa	fabulous
04:09	fouadbajwa	and more teams have also shared there themes, there should be a wiki ;page on ubuntu with all these themes
04:09	jono	fouadbajwa, ok if you can state for the record that this is all part of ubuntu-pk, then this is fine with me
04:09	elmo	Kamion: what do you think?
04:09	fouadbajwa	yes this is all Ubuntu-pk
04:09	jsgotangco	fouadbajwa: it just so happened that we were on the same server so we shared the theme from the beginning
04:09	MagicFab	I am just worried that you're putting all the weight of FOSSFP in your application and it's not clear how bot relate(d). But if there's been other comm. I miseed, I can see how it's evolved.
04:10	fouadbajwa	they were just supporting Magic nothing else
04:10	fouadbajwa	they are a consortium of a large number of FOSS activists and researchers
04:10	fouadbajwa	and just contributing local Ubuntu CDs
04:10	fouadbajwa	and software mirrors
04:11	fouadbajwa	you can check within one week, no information on Ubuntu association will be there
=== lophyte [n=dsulliva@ubuntu/member/lophyte] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:13	Kamion	elmo: happy to go with jono here, if the FOSSFP confusion is sorted out
04:13	Kamion	and ubuntu-pk.org is fixed
04:13	MagicFab	I don't say everything ubuntu should disappear from their servers/site, quite the tcontrary. Just that the relationship between both is not clear to any new potential loco members.
04:13	fouadbajwa	will be sorted out within these 7 days,
04:14	jono	ok, lets wait for it to be fixed and then I will approve
04:14	fouadbajwa	mailing list and ubuntu pages have been requested for removal
04:14	fouadbajwa	could this approval then be just based on email notification and show of cause through www.fossfp.org?
04:14	gnomefreak	just a reminder next meeting is in 45 minutes.
04:16	jono	fouadbajwa,I think the general opinion is that we wan to see the changeover happen first and then there will approval
04:17	fouadbajwa	thats what i mean, when i get there email that they have resolved the issue, i will notify you through email
04:17	fouadbajwa	and you can check there website so forth
04:18	jono	sure
04:18	jono	sounds good
04:18	jono	if all is resolved, we can then approve
04:18	jono	if the CC are happy with this, I am :)
04:18	elmo	fine by me
04:18	fouadbajwa	sure okay :) sent out them the email request :)
04:18	elmo	ok, so shall we move then?
04:19	elmo	member candidates...
=== pschulz01 is here.
04:19	elmo	JohanLundmark sebastean (September 23) - here?
04:19	fouadbajwa	okay guys thanks and bye, i have to leave for prayers
04:20	jono	thanks fouadbajwa
04:20	elmo	Andrew Hodgkinson (September 26) - here?
04:21	elmo	Michael Bienia geser (October 11) - here?
=== geser is here
=== Mirv [n=tajyrink@pdpc/supporter/active/Mirv] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:21	lophyte	go geser :)
04:21	elmo	geser: go ahead with your intro?
=== yama is present
04:22	geser	sure
04:22	geser	wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichaelBienia
04:22	geser	LP: https://launchpad.net/people/geser
=== lotusleaf [n=lotuslea@unaffiliated/lotusleaf] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:22	geser	My name is Michael Bienia. I'm 26 years old and live in Dortmund, Germany.
04:22	geser	I'm using Ubuntu since the development cycle of breezy but only started in august 2006 to also contribute to Ubuntu.
04:22	geser	Since than I was fixing packages with unmet deps and doing sync and merges for packages in universe. crimsun sponsored my uploads and also reviewed my sync requests.
04:22	geser	Currently I'm also mentoring/advising lophyte on MOTU work
04:23	geser	questions?
=== Hobbsee has also sponsored some of geser's uploads
04:23	elmo	any MOTUs want to comment/cheerlead for geser?
04:24	lophyte	I'm not a MOTU, but I can say that geser has done an awesome job helping me out with getting into MOTU work
04:24	lophyte	he's been very helpful in bringing me up to date on the swing of things, so to speak
04:24	MagicFab	geser, I don't see that you have signe the code of conduct in LP ?
04:24	elmo	Hobbsee: how were the uploads?
04:25	elmo	magicfab: Ubuntero:  Yes  <-- means he has
04:26	Hobbsee	elmo: mostly good.  there were a few errors, but most were fine.  geser's quick to fix any of them though
=== Hobbsee notes that he's probably gotten another billion debdiffs that u-u-s is subscribed to to upload :P
04:26	elmo	ok, well, I'm pretty happy, there's a lot of packages here in a realtively short period of time
04:27	elmo	Kamion/jono: what do you think?
04:27	Hobbsee	between him and fujitsu...they keep us busy :P
04:27	MagicFab	elmo: there would be a "Codes of conduct" entry in his page, which I don't see.
04:27	elmo	MagicFab: *shrug* I can see it?
04:27	elmo	magicfab: https://launchpad.net/people/geser/+codesofconduct
04:28	Kamion	I've been processing a certain amount of geser's work as an ubuntu-archive member and it's seemed well-organised
04:28	Kamion	he's been contributing for a reasonable amount of time too
04:28	Kamion	I'm happy
04:29	jono	sorry was on phone, reading up
04:29	jono	I don't know geser really
04:30	MagicFab	elmo: access to that page is restricted (so no menu entry), but thanks.
04:31	Hobbsee	jono: i would suspect that's because you havent really been in the same circles.
04:31	Hobbsee	jono: he's active in -motu, and -bugs - and the u-u-s, of course
04:31	jono	right
=== Kuyaedz [i=Kuyaedz@gateway/gpg-tor/key-0x0D084E13] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:35	Hobbsee	(where the u-u-s is the ubuntu-universe-sponsors team)
04:35	culix	my name is Mario and it is the first time for me to visit a CC, but i can say that geser is also a good supporter in #ubuntu-de, always friendly and helpful, just my 2 cents
04:36	geser	I try to help in #ubuntu-de when I can
04:36	elmo	ok, so let's move on for now
04:36	elmo	geser: you've got a +2 from kamion and I, sabdfl will be checking the logs later to give you a quorate vote
04:37	geser	thanks
04:37	elmo	PaulSchulz pschulz01 (October 16)
04:37	pschulz01	Greetings all...
04:37	pschulz01	wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PaulSchulz
04:37	pschulz01	37 years, live in Adelaide, South Australia, and work as a Linux
04:37	pschulz01	System Adminsitator during the day.
04:37	pschulz01	I first appeared before the CC in May, and was asked to come back with
04:37	pschulz01	some more support. Since then, I have continued my involvement with
04:37	pschulz01	Ubuntu-Au, and have contributed to the translation and bug fixing
04:37	pschulz01	efforts (patches) for edgy, as well as well as keeping an eye on some
04:37	pschulz01	things like the 'Ubuntu Books' Wiki page.
04:38	pschulz01	Member of Ubuntu-Au, BugSquad and English Translation teams
04:38	pschulz01	Do I have any supported still here? (Just past midnight local time.)
04:38	elkbuntu	of course you do :)
04:38	elkbuntu	I cant speak highly enough of paul, he's an active and motivating member of ubuntu-au
=== jenda [n=jenda@ubuntu/member/jenda] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:38	bimberi	pschulz01 is an AustralianTeam stalwart and the initiator/carrier-through-er of many of its best initiatives - two being hassling local notebook suppliers to ship Ubuntu and getting computer shops to distribute Ubuntu CDs. With Paul it's not just "we should do this", it's "here's how I did it - and how you can too".
04:39	yama	I'm not a member (yet), but I've found pschulz01 to be quite helpful on IRC
04:40	elmo	pschulz01: ISTRecognise your name - have you applied before?
04:40	gnomefreak	elmo: he did in may and he was told to come back
04:40	elkbuntu	most of the cheersquad has gone to sleep i believe, but there were many other people who wanted to be here for paul.
04:40	siccness	:)
04:40	pschulz01	elmo: wiki: MeetingLogs/CC 2006-05-30
04:41	elmo	I can believe anyone fell asleep during a CC meeting?  it's so dynamic and fast paced
04:41	jsgotangco	well its the unholy hour for people in +1-
04:41	jsgotangco	+10
04:41	elkbuntu	it is 00:41 here
=== stgraber [n=stgraber@client80-83-51-125.abo.net2000.ch] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:42	elmo	jsgotangco: yeah, I was being sarcastic, don't mind me
04:43	pschulz01	I plan to continue my work with the Ubuntu-AU team.. Australia needs an alternative. I'm continutally amazed at the results that other teams are getting.. (Belgium, Pakistan for example :-)
04:43	elkbuntu	i believe paul has also done alot of work gettting ubuntu into his local community, especially with software freedom day last month
04:43	Hobbsee	elmo: *g*.  Someone should write a spec on it active participation in meetings by the respective quorums :P
04:44	pschulz01	Any questions?
04:45	elmo	any bugswaud people able to vouch for pschulz01?
04:45	elmo	squad too
04:45	gnomefreak	he has done alot of triaging since may/juneish
04:46	gnomefreak	im happy with the work he has done :)
04:49	elmo	ok, well, I'm happy based on vouching from team-au and the bugsqaud team and the fact that he had the persistence to come back ;-
04:49	elmo	)
04:49	Kamion	I'm fine with pschulz01 for the -au-based advocacy if nothing else
04:49	elkbuntu	yeah.. persistant.. he's definatly that :)
04:50	elmo	jono: any comments?
04:50	Kamion	can I fill in my comments on the other two applicants afterwards? I *have* to get to the post office before closing time and there are a number of things I need to do there
04:50	jono	sounds good to me :)
04:51	jono	I have good things about pschulz01
04:51	elmo	Kamion: sure
=== stgraber [n=stgraber@client80-83-51-125.abo.net2000.ch] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:51	looksaus	yama, your turn :)
04:51	jono	also we need to start the loco meet soon
04:51	Hobbsee	Kamion: bang down the door after hours instead :P
04:51	elmo	jono: define soon?
04:51	elmo	pschulz01: ok, you've got +2, once you get +1 from sabdfl or mako later, it'll become official
04:51	yama	thanks looksaus
04:51	jono	well its due to start in 8mins
04:52	elkbuntu	jono, yes.. we do.. in 8 minutes according to my time :-/
=== pschulz01 says goodnight!
04:52	jono	night pschulz01 :)
04:52	siccness	Night mate!
04:52	elkbuntu	night paul :)
04:52	yama	cya paul
04:53	looksaus	yama, ?
04:53	jono	should we defer the remaining members till the next meet or just overrun?
04:54	jono	I understand people have stuck around for these members
04:54	yama	I'd like to have a go, if possible
04:54	jono	ok
04:54	yama	thanks
04:54	yama	Firstly, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SridharDhanapalan
04:54	yama	and https://launchpad.net/people/lordyama
04:54	gnomefreak	jono: weve overrun an hour already and we have another meeting in like 6 minutes :)
04:55	jono	gnomefreak, I know :)
04:55	yama	(Sorry if I sound like I'm rushing. I've stayed up for this. It's almost 1am here in Sydney)
04:55	jono	we could always start the loco meeting in another chan
04:56	elkbuntu	Yama's active in the ubuntu-au community
=== Hobbsee has even met yama :P
04:56	bimberi	Huge \o/ from me for yama's efforts to coordinate "Queen's English" (ie. en-GB derived) translation. en-GB is >95% complete for Dapper and would be nowhere near that without his efforts to gather resources and bring the different translation groups together. It has been a determined effort over a number of months and achieved with a minimum of angst amongst some very pedantic people. A sustained and significant contribution (imo
04:56	bimberi	:-) ).
04:56	elkbuntu	I can assure the CC that TheMuso intended to support him, but it seems that we lost him
04:56	elkbuntu	<TheMuso> Ok. I have a statement about Yama ready. :) <-- i never saw the statement though
04:57	Hobbsee	TheMuso went to bed hours ago
04:57	elkbuntu	Hobbsee, i figured so
04:57	yama	yes, he couldn't stay up
04:57	yama	I'm an active member of ubuntu-au.
04:58	yama	I spend most of my time doing translations for en_GB, because it forms the root of many derivatives like en_AU, en_NZ and so on
04:58	elmo	erm, stupid question, but what do translations for en_GB involve?
04:58	elmo	changing color to colour?
04:59	Hobbsee	elmo: i believe so
04:59	yama	much more than that, actually
04:59	yama	there are more subtle things like punctuation differences
04:59	gnomefreak	lol
04:59	yama	and we needed to settle on some different terminologies, which has required co-ordination with upstream en_GB groups
05:00	bimberi	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EnglishTranslation
05:00	yama	I wrote https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EnglishTranslation to guide our efforts
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: LoCo | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 18 Oct 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 19 Oct 23:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 23 Oct 19:00 UTC: Accessibility Team | 24 Oct 20:00 UTC: Technical Board
05:00	bimberi	:)
05:00	yama	yep, thanks bimberi :)
05:01	yama	I have turned the en_GB group into an International English one
05:01	yama	it is mostly en_GB, but we take derivatives into consideration when picking words/terms to use
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: LoCo | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 18 Oct 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 19 Oct 23:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 23 Oct 19:00 UTC: Accessibility Team | 25 Oct 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu
05:02	yama	there is a lot of work 'herding cats', so to speak
05:02	jono	ok
05:02	jono	any other comments from people?
=== Kuyaedz [i=Kuyaedz@gateway/tor/x-255d4971deb0f87e] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:03	elmo	looks ok to me
05:04	jono	fine to me
05:04	jono	Kamion, and sabdfl_afk are waiting till later right?
05:04	elmo	tho, and no disrespect intended, I'm surprised people find translating to en_GB... worth the effort it must involved?
05:04	elmo	s/d?/?/
05:04	yama	language is an important part of culture
05:04	elmo	esp. since AFAIK rosetta can't do "this string doesn't need translated"
05:04	elmo	jono: right
05:05	jono	ok one more to do right?
05:05	elmo	so shall we move on, and defer the remaining person till next week?  the
05:05	looksaus	me...
05:05	looksaus	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarkVanDenBorre
05:05	elmo	so shall we move on, and defer the remaining person till next meeting - they only applied today anyway
05:05	yama	elmo: we have a wonderful greasemonkey script to help us
=== gnomefreak [n=gnomefre@ubuntu/member/gnomefreak] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:05	jono	right
05:05	jono	thanks folks :)
05:05	Hobbsee	impressive.  another 3 hour meeting.
05:05	elmo	looksaus: would you mind waiting?  sorry, it's just been a very long meeting
05:05	looksaus	sure...
05:05	looksaus	or should I paste here for the logs
05:05	looksaus	?
05:06	yama	thanks for your time, everyone
05:06	jono	looksaus, could you make a wiki page
05:06	jono	we need to start the loco meeting really
05:06	looksaus	I already did, just pasted it
05:06	jono	ahhh thats cool then :)
05:06	looksaus	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarkVanDenBorre
05:06	nixternal	i think the CC needs to take the first 5 applicants at each meeting
05:06	jono	nixternal, agreed, these meetings are too long
</pre>
