{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Introduction
* status quo a: housekeeping (what has happened now)
* status quo b: current problems with fai in ubuntu
* short term plans for Ubuntu 7.10 (gutsy)
* long term plans for Ubuntu 8.04LTS (hardy)
* housekeeping (future meetings, communication, launchpad infrastructure etc.)

=== Log ===
{{{
08:00	siretart	I think we can start?
08:00	siretart	\sh doesn't seem to be around
08:00	siretart	alvinc wanted to come, has anyone heared from him?
08:00	siretart	I've setup a MeetingAgenda here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FAITeamAgenda
08:01	siretart	if someone wants to add something, now would be a good time to speak up :)
08:01	siretart	#startmeeting
08:02	siretart	anyone around besides me?
08:02	lazyb0y	I'm here :)
08:02	torkel	me too :-)
08:02	siretart	well, MootBot doesn't seem to listen for me, but let's use the syntax anyway: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot
08:03	siretart	since that will make writing minutes a bit easier
08:03	siretart	[TOPIC]  Introduction
08:03	siretart	since most of us don't know each other too well, I've though we could start with a small introduction of ourselves
08:03	siretart	to see who is in the team and why
08:04	siretart	I start:
08:04	siretart	My name is Reinhard Tartler, both ubuntu and debian developer.
08:04	siretart	I've been following fai in ubuntu since a couple of release cycles (since dapper I think)
=== allee is here now
=== dendro-away [n=dendroba@adsl-065-005-186-012.sip.asm.bellsouth.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Bye"]
08:04	siretart	I work at the university of erlangen, where I admin a small student lab
08:04	siretart	torkel: you're next :)
08:05	torkel	my name is Bjrn Torkelsson
08:05	torkel	I'm working at High Performance Computing Center North (HPC2N), Ume Universty
08:06	torkel	I have been using FAI for about 5-6 year. First with Debian and we swithed to Ubuntu around breezy
08:07	torkel	we are currently using FAI to install three clusters and a bunch of servers
08:07	torkel	in total 500 machines
08:07	siretart	impressive
08:07	torkel	that's about it. How's next?
08:07	siretart	allee?
08:07	lazyb0y	I take it :)
08:07	allee	my name is Achim Bohnet.  I'm working as a sysadmin at MPI fuer extraterrestrische Physik at Garching, Germany.  In my free time I try to help with Kubuntu and  debians  kde-extras-team
08:07	lazyb0y	(soory :)
08:07	lazyb0y	please go on
08:08	allee	I use fai since dapper, and slowly convert the mixuters of linux here at the insitute to fai.
08:08	lazyb0y	allee: mixuters?
08:08	allee	currently are  60 desktop and 10 laptop system installe with fai.  2 to 3 times more is possible with the time
08:09	allee	mixture
08:09	allee	2 clusters with 50 nodes are also waiting to fai installed instead of preseeding.  but never break a running system
=== allee done
08:10	siretart	lazyb0y: okay, now its your turn :)
08:10	lazyb0y	Ok, my name is Henning Sprang
08:10	lazyb0y	I work as "IT architect" at silpion in Hamburg
08:11	lazyb0y	which turns out to be mainly software development in java, as well as writing a book about xen
08:11	lazyb0y	FAI happens mostly in my spare time at home, where I install 3 laptops, 2 servers, and currently 3 Xen VM's with FAI
08:12	lazyb0y	Oh, my company sponsored working on red hat installs with FAI - but it nevcer truned a real project yet, but helped finding some bugs
08:12	lazyb0y	and, one of these machines is Ubuntu (Dapper, too lazy to convert)
08:13	lazyb0y	I used to publish some FAI howtos and even a branch with some helpful stuff toi install uUbuntu and others with FAI
08:13	lazyb0y	but never really used FAI _on_ Ubuntu, actually
08:14	lazyb0y	U guess thats' it :)
08:14	siretart	ok
08:14	siretart	lets move on with the next topic
08:15	siretart	[TOPIC]  status quo a: housekeeping (what has happened now)
08:15	Mrfai	hello all
08:15	siretart	hi Mrfai
08:15	siretart	what has happened so far:
08:15	siretart	I've backported the latest fai 3.2.1 release from debian to ubuntu.
08:15	siretart	Backporting here means, that I've recompiled it for various earlier releases including gutsy.
08:15	siretart	It works for me fine, with a dapper server installing feisty clients.
08:15	siretart	I've started to work in a local bzr branch, which I've created from the svn fai using bzr-svn
08:15	siretart	however, after the latest bzr-svn upgrade, merging between my working branches broke,
08:15	siretart	and I lost my nerve with it
08:15	siretart	oh, what I did change is: fai is non-native in ubuntu,
08:15	siretart	this means all my modifications are available in the diff.gz
08:15	siretart	all my work is now available as source package in the team PPA
08:15	siretart	e.g.: http://ppa.launchpad.net/fai/ubuntu/pool/main/f/fai/fai_3.2.1-0ubuntu1~ppa1~feisty1.diff.gz
08:16	siretart	so Mrfai can easily see what is going on in ubuntu ;)
08:16	siretart	any questions so far?
08:17	lazyb0y	I think it's good to make FAI non-native to see the diffs...
=== allee nods
08:17	siretart	okay
08:17	siretart	A few words of the team I've registered in launchpad:
08:17	siretart	the fai team has 2 objectives:
08:17	siretart	a) hosting the team PPA (the archive)
08:17	siretart	b) being notified of bugs filed against fai in ubutu
08:17	allee	I've tried to far to get used to bzr and fai team
08:17	siretart	and of course to get the team a bit visible :)
08:18	siretart	allee: I've requested the fai svn to be imported to bzr via launchpad: https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~vcs-imports/fai/trunk
08:18	siretart	did you notice?
08:18	allee	I've some branches now lying a round with siretart chanages and some patches I've made or got from l
08:18	siretart	(btw, do the 'edge' urls work for you?
08:18	allee	siretart: my branches are based your svn import to launchpad
08:19	siretart	cool. feel free to publish them!
08:19	allee	will do
08:19	siretart	so it seems indeed to make sense to use bzr for us?
08:19	Mrfai	will changes to the original fai svn treen automatically be pushed into your bzr system?
08:19	lazyb0y	I have to get into BZR, to be of some use in this team, I think
08:19	siretart	I mean, we can still easily submit them to Mrfai, since they are based on the svn import
08:20	lazyb0y	(and setup some UBuntu test instances to try them)
08:20	allee	Mrfai: they are sync very hour(s?)
08:20	siretart	Mrfai: yes, https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~vcs-imports/fai/trunk is updated automatically by launchpad
08:20	Mrfai	ok
08:20	siretart	Mrfai: the only problem I've noticed is that the $Id$ tags are not expanded
08:20	siretart	they are with RCS and svn
08:20	allee	Mrfai: my plan (and did) is to send you or debian bts the patches that I add
08:20	siretart	I think they since a few times a day, but I'm not sure
08:21	siretart	s/since/sync/
08:21	siretart	torkel: have you already experience with bzr?
08:21	torkel	no
08:22	siretart	torkel: well, on the one hand, bzr is rather easy to learn. on the other hand, if you have a patch to contribute, I think if you send it in per email, someone else can apply it quite easily
08:23	siretart	is this okay for you?
08:23	torkel	guess I can learn bzr. I have meant to take a look at it for a while :-)
08:23	siretart	great! :)
08:24	allee	about gusty status(as mentioned in #fai):  at least for me make-fai-nfsroot's nfsroot does not boot my test machine. .cfg is downloaded via tftp then I get a boot: prompt
08:24	siretart	Mrfai: all branches published to launchpad have a online sourcecode browser
08:24	torkel	however I prefer if we also really try to push patches back to Mrfai as soon as possible
08:24	siretart	Mrfai: and since we can easily diff against the official svn trunk, merging our patches back to you should really be easy
08:24	siretart	Mrfai: do you see any problems with that?
08:25	siretart	torkel: I fully agree!
08:25	allee	fwiw: my doc patch I sent to Mrfai was a bzr diff :)
08:25	lazyb0y	you only need to make sure to track somewhere which pacthes were already applied by Mrfai
08:25	Mrfai	no. The fai_3.2.1-0ubuntu1~ppa1~feisty1.diff.gz seems to be really small so I can include some changes into upstream.
08:26	Mrfai	But I will never apply all changes to the svn trunk, since some are really ubuntu specific
08:26	torkel	preferably there should be no difference, but that might be really hard to achive
08:27	siretart	torkel: yes, perhaps we can tweak debian/rules to detect if it is built in debian or ubuntu
08:27	siretart	torkel: and have a file debian/NFSROOT.ubuntu besinde debian/NFSROOT
08:27	lazyb0y	yes, if possible patches should be kept as small as possibel
08:27	torkel	or using "runtime" tests
08:27	siretart	this way Mrfai could merge them more easy
08:27	torkel	why not NFSROOT.<dist>?
08:27	lazyb0y	maybe we should review them from time to time to see if somebody has an idea how to incorporate them that somebody else didn't have yet
08:28	siretart	lazyb0y: btw, there is a 'bzr-rebase' plugin, so that you can rebase your branch on a newer svn revision
08:28	Mrfai	FSNROOT and NFSROOT.ubuntu might be an option, but those two file are mostly identical, so it's not the best idea to keep two versions of it
08:28	siretart	lazyb0y: this way, you can generate diffs against the latest svn-trunk
08:28	Mrfai	what about a class UBUNTU inside etc/fai/NFSROOT?
08:29	lazyb0y	siretart: and it automatically detects which patches don't neefd to be applied anymore? (cool, then!)
08:29	siretart	Mrfai: well, kernels are handled differently, and we need to remove upstart in favor of sysvinit. that's the only difference currently
08:29	siretart	lazyb0y: it doesn't "detect", but what it does acheives basically the same
08:29	lazyb0y	Mrfai: if we start doing Dist-specific stuff, we should not use only a distribution name
08:29	allee	I've current trunk (lp svn import), trunk-fixes (patches I plan for upsteam), gusty (what should go into gusty) and gusty-fixes (my work tree)
08:29	lazyb0y	better: a variable called DISTRIBUTION, with the vakue of the dist name in it
08:29	lazyb0y	or, so you can better see that this class is about a distribution: DIST_UBUNTU
08:30	siretart	Mrfai: if UBUNTU was a hardcoded built-in class, sure!
08:30	siretart	lazyb0y: I think we need both: built-in classes: DEBIAN, LENNY, UBUNTU, GUTSY and HARDY (set when appropriate)
08:30	lazyb0y	I use it here in my setups, and because there are differences between versions, I end up having DIST_DEBIAN, DIST_UBUNT, DIST_DEBIAN_ETCH, ...
08:30	torkel	what if you want to install Feisty, Gutsty, ...
08:31	Mrfai	Mmm, it seems that new classes for each distri and release causes more diffs than keepeing the old system of diff between debian and ubuntu
08:31	lazyb0y	siretart: ok, if these classes are needed, I think my naming scheme is a little better
08:32	lazyb0y	BTW, whar are we about to achieve? :)
08:32	allee	IMHO we should first the  fai   in ubuntu to the same state as in debian, before we should think about installing debian and *ubuntu hosts from same fai server
08:32	siretart	given ubuntu's 6 month cycle, I think multidistribution sites are more usual in ubuntu than in debian
08:32	siretart	I agree to allee
08:32	torkel	me too
08:32	siretart	let's therefore move on with the next topic, okay?
08:32	allee	k
08:32	siretart	[TOPIC]  current problems with fai in ubuntu
08:32	torkel	though we will install muliple versions of Ubuntu soon...
08:33	siretart	so far I'm aware of the following problems
08:33	siretart	fai-cd is totally broken: the cd won't boot
08:33	siretart	I haven't looked at it yet, but it feels like a live-initramfs problem to me
08:33	siretart	has anyone more input on it?
08:33	siretart	or does anyone plan to look at that more closely soon?
08:33	allee	gusty pxe boot is broken too (I assume)
08:34	allee	fai-cd is low prio for me
08:34	torkel	live-initramfs seems to be broken when trying to install dapper
08:34	Mrfai	Is there a fai-cd iso image for ubuntu, that I may test?
08:34	torkel	allee: what's the problem with pxe boot in gutsy?
08:34	siretart	Mrfai: I haven't created one. but it should be pretty easy to create one in an ubuntu chroot on a debian system
08:35	siretart	Mrfai: (debian's debootstrap can install ubuntu chroots nowadays)
08:35	Mrfai	siretart: I have no time to build a ubuntu fai-cd of my own. But I may test an iso image.
08:35	lazyb0y	siretart: is that already with the deboostrap in etch?
08:35	siretart	I've started gutsy's d-i via pxe just today
08:35	allee	torkel: pxe.cfg/xxx download via tftp then I get boot:.  that it.
08:35	Mrfai	It may also be nice to have a fai-cd iso image after the next ubuntu release
08:35	siretart	lazyb0y: I think you need lenny's debootstrap
08:36	lazyb0y	ok
08:36	lazyb0y	or rinse of something like that
08:36	siretart	Mrfai: yes, that would be great
08:36	torkel	allee: permissions problem?
08:36	allee	5 days ago test host booted, with lots of error
08:36	allee	torkel: let's move debug session to after the meeting
08:36	siretart	allee: so it doesn't even load the kernel and initrd?
08:37	torkel	allee: sure
08:37	allee	siretart: no
08:37	siretart	Mrfai: I see that I can build an gutsy fai-cd and will notify you when I've published it on my webserver, okay?
08:37	Mrfai	fine
08:37	siretart	great
08:37	siretart	the other issue I'm aware of was that unionfs on nfs was broken in gutsy
08:37	siretart	glance reported that in a launchpad bug
08:37	siretart	luckily, gutsy's kernel was upgraded and the bug disappeared
08:37	siretart	so that seems to be a no issue again :)
08:37	siretart	btw, has anyone heared of glance?
08:38	allee	never before
08:38	siretart	he was interested in the team as well. hm
08:38	siretart	any other problems you've noticed with fai in ubunut?
08:38	torkel	I saw him a couple of days ago :-)
08:39	torkel	I have tried to install dapper using PPA but from the looks of it it will require some work
08:39	Mrfai	It would be nice to check if several FAI environment are working in gutsy. E.g. fai-cd boot, pxe boot, dirinstall
08:39	Mrfai	that way, we se were are stille some problems
08:39	siretart	Mrfai: yes, perhaps we can collect that information in a test matrix on wiki.ubuntu.com?
08:39	Mrfai	s/se were/ see where/
08:40	siretart	opinions?
08:40	lazyb0y	test-matrix: ACK
08:40	torkel	sounds good
08:40	Mrfai	maybe a test matrix on faiwiki, that we will also use for Debian as well
=== lazyb0y is thinking about setting up automatic testing for fai with crucible someday
08:40	allee	test-mateix: ACK
08:41	Mrfai	I vote for the test matrix on faiwiki
08:41	siretart	ok, who else is for using faiwiki?
08:41	lazyb0y	yes, better in the fai wiki - there are some notices about testing general already, which I pout in there someday
08:41	allee	faiwiki is fine with me.
08:41	siretart	I don't really care, I can setup pointers from wiki.ubuntu.com to faiwiki
08:42	siretart	I assume I need an account in faiwiki, right?
08:42	lazyb0y	siretart: yes, please do that! so we  can collect all information on how to test fai on a single place
08:42	torkel	keeping everything at one place is probably easier
08:42	siretart	well, we can clear that afterwards, okay?
08:42	lazyb0y	siretart: you can setup an account sourself since the wiki upgrade
08:42	Mrfai	HAs anyone an example for such a matrix?
08:42	siretart	[AGREED]  setup a test matrix fai-cd, pxe boot, dirinstall on faiwiki
08:42	siretart	lazyb0y: great!
08:43	lazyb0y	[LINK]  my notes about testing: http://faiwiki.informatik.uni-koeln.de/index.php/Testing
08:43	allee	siretart: + softupdate
08:43	siretart	[AGREED]  setup a test matrix fai-cd, pxe boot, dirinstall, soft update on faiwiki
08:43	siretart	:)
08:43	siretart	next topic?
08:44	lazyb0y	Mrfai wanted an example of such a matrix
08:44	allee	k
08:44	siretart	Mrfai: I've thought of a simple table: x-axis: ubuntu distro, y-axis: one of fai-cd, pxe boot, dirinstall and soft-update
08:44	siretart	Mrfai: we are using such matrixes in ubuntu for iso testing
08:45	siretart	wow, only 15 minutes left
08:45	Mrfai	siretart: ok
08:45	lazyb0y	ok, that was what I also thought :)
08:45	siretart	[TOPIC]  #
08:45	siretart	[TOPIC]  short term plans for Ubuntu 7.10 (gutsy)
08:45	siretart	#
08:45	siretart	my personal plans for gutsy is to look at the fai-cd problem
08:45	siretart	and see if there is an easy fix
08:45	siretart	does anyone else have plans he wants to do for gutsy?
08:46	Mrfai	I think main plan is to solve the bugs. I will help soilving the fai-cd problem
08:46	siretart	thanks! :)
08:46	allee	my plans are right now : get gusty pxe boot,  'error' free demohost install,  add class to get a (K)ubuntu install similar to live/alternative CD installation.
08:46	lazyb0y	I can add to my agenda settin up a chroot/xen vm for fai.cd creating testing
08:47	siretart	kubuntu class sounds great. I imagine it to be rather trivial by adding an additional class
08:47	lazyb0y	Mrfai: I could try setting uo a ubuntu chroot on faiwiki, so you can get isos from there?!
08:47	siretart	lazyb0y: that would be awesome!
08:47	allee	siretart: yes, I think so.  *UBUNTU classes should be easy
08:47	siretart	(and would spare me the trouble uploading the cd)
08:48	siretart	other ideas?
08:48	Mrfai	How much tinme do we have to solve the remaining bugs for gutsy?
08:48	siretart	Mrfai: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyReleaseSchedule
08:48	lazyb0y	[LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyReleaseSchedule
08:48	lazyb0y	:)
08:48	siretart	:)
08:49	allee	siretart: Later I'll check with serverteam, about Puppy(?) integration (or stick with cfengine)
08:49	siretart	Mrfai: since fai is 'only' universe, we can do upload until october 17th, I'd expect
08:49	siretart	allee: is that a gutsy or hardy goal?
08:49	Mrfai	siretart: ok. Let's do it a few days eariler :-)
08:49	allee	realistically hardy
08:49	siretart	because hardy goals would be my next topic :)
08:49	Mrfai	allee: I think you meant puppet
08:50	siretart	Mrfai: that would be ideal ;)
08:50	siretart	Mrfai: but we have PPAs now, so we can provide updated fai packages any time from there
08:50	allee	Mrfai: yeah, probably.  Was written in ruby
08:50	siretart	for any ubuntu release
08:50	siretart	[TOPIC]  hardy ideas
08:51	siretart	what I have in mind for hardy: I will attend the UDS-Boston: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Boston
08:51	siretart	and want to present fai on ubuntu there, to show it the server team
08:51	Mrfai	good idea
08:51	siretart	I hope I can find intereted people there to join the team or at least use it :)
08:51	allee	puppet/ cfengine like simple example, for stuff fai softupdate is too heavy
08:51	soren	siretart: You might :)
08:52	siretart	like soren :)
08:52	siretart	hello there ;)
08:52	lazyb0y	[LINK] http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Boston
08:52	soren	Just FYI: TB meeting in 7 minutes..
08:52	siretart	soren: espc. the softupdate stuff might be interesting for you!
08:52	siretart	right
08:53	siretart	further ideas: create fai-cds for all flavors of ubuntu: kubuntu, xubuntu, etc
08:53	siretart	however, they might not be Cd-sized, but rather dvd sized
08:53	Mrfai	let's try to prepare a fai-cd before UDS-Boston so siretart can show this CD.
08:53	siretart	that would really help!
08:53	lazyb0y	allee: I don't unseratdn the idea of replacing softupdate with puppet...
08:53	Mrfai	And the same installation from usb Stick
08:53	Mrfai	usb stick is much cooler than from CD/DVD
08:53	lazyb0y	that sounds a great goal!
08:54	siretart	for hardy, I also wanted to see, if we can replace the FAI Nfsroot with nbd
08:54	siretart	edubuntu is doing that for their ltsp-nfsroot
08:54	ogra	siretart, :)
08:54	Mrfai	siretart: file a wishlist bug for that, please
08:54	lazyb0y	siretart: what's the upside of this?
08:54	allee	btw we have bzr config mgnt for fai?
08:54	allee	^^hardy:)
08:54	siretart	[ACTION]  siretart to file a whishlist bug for nbd support in fai nfsroot
08:54	Mrfai	no, not yet. Good idea to make ubuntu people happy
08:55	Mrfai	I mean bzr ccheckout of the config space
08:55	siretart	[ACTION]  allee to file a whishlist bug for bzr support in fai
08:55	siretart	:)
08:55	allee	Mrfai: I'm happy with git :)
08:55	lazyb0y	any problems with nfs trhat nbd will solve?
08:55	allee	but we want to reach to bzr fans too ;)
08:55	siretart	lazyb0y: no more portmapper. more performance, I'd expect
08:55	siretart	perhaps ogra can elaborate here
08:55	ogra	lazyb0y, better security control if you want it
08:55	lazyb0y	ok
08:55	Mrfai	some sites do not allow NFS for whatever reasons
08:56	siretart	ok
08:56	ogra	for us in ltsp nbd is only the undelying layer for a squashfs we mount together with a tmpfs into a unionfs
08:56	siretart	ogra: do you use casper in the squashfs?
08:56	allee	yeah, more (access) control would be a nice thing.
08:56	torkel	can we have support for afs installations too? :-)
08:57	Mrfai	nfsroot via afs?
08:57	ogra	nbd's design for serving imges instead of files as block devices made us look at that btw
08:57	siretart	torkel: if you hack that part, I'd see no problems ;)
08:57	ogra	siretart, well, a similar script called ltsp-nbd
08:57	allee	torkel: shudder
08:57	torkel	siretart: someday... :-)
08:57	siretart	ogra: ah, I see
08:57	ogra	but there is a lot stolen casper code inside :)
08:57	siretart	[ACTION]  siretart to talk with panthera about nbd support in live-initramfs
08:57	ogra	also some code for using network swap that makes it possible to boot systems with even 28M ram
08:58	siretart	ok, last point before we leave to our #fai channel
08:58	siretart	[TOPIC]  housekeeping (future meetings, communication, launchpad infrastructure etc.)
08:58	siretart	do we need a seperate mailing list?
08:58	siretart	or does Mrfai allow us to use linux-fai-devel? ;)
08:58	Mrfai	use linux-fai-devel
08:58	allee	no
08:58	siretart	objections from anyone?
08:59	torkel	no
08:59	allee	linux-fai-devel is fine
08:59	siretart	[AGREED]  ubuntu fai team is using the 'main' fai developer list: linux-fai-devel
08:59	siretart	we currently have the launchpad team for PPA uploads
09:00	siretart	I'd say every team member is fine to upload new package at anytime he sees fit, is that okay?
09:00	allee	okay
09:00	siretart	or do we need some more fine grained process?
09:00	torkel	depends on if you trust us to do uploads :-)
09:00	siretart	I think atm this would be allee, \sh and me as main uploads
09:00	allee	we should just be aware that other may use it and don't upload experimental stuff
09:01	siretart	[AGREED]  any team member is fine to upload as he seems fit until further notice
09:01	allee	At the end bzr-buildpackage would be used for testing the fai team branches
09:01	siretart	how about new team members?
09:02	siretart	the current policy is to mail me and I add him after a short introduction
09:02	allee	siretart: time over -> #FAI?
09:02	siretart	shall we change this to mail linux-fai-devel, and we talk about that in #fai?
09:02	siretart	well, allee is right, we should clear the stage for the technical board
09:03	siretart	let's move then to #fai. thanks for attending!
09:03	siretart	#endmeeting
}}
