{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Feb 17 10:50:27 *	Ubugtu has changed the topic to: Current meeting: Xubuntu | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 21 Feb 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 21 Feb 16:00 UTC: Kernel Team | 22 Feb 16:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 24 Feb 17:00 UTC: Ubuntu US LoCo Team Mentor | 25 Feb 17:00 UTC: LoCo Team
Feb 17 10:54:36 *	j_ack (n=rudi@p508DBBF8.dip0.t-ipconnect.de) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:03:47 *	afflux has quit ("Ex-Chat")
Feb 17 11:04:11 <highvoltage>	so			
Feb 17 11:06:13 *	mako_ (n=mako@bork.hampshire.edu) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:10:10 <cbx33>	highvoltage, ?
Feb 17 11:11:29 <highvoltage>	cbx33: meant to ping somerville32, my connection just went a bit dodgy there for a while
Feb 17 11:11:38 <cbx33>	hehe
Feb 17 11:11:44 <somerville32>	Oh right
Feb 17 11:11:46 <somerville32>	Meeting time :)
Feb 17 11:11:47 *	mako__ (n=mako@bork.hampshire.edu) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:13:41 *	duglas (n=douglas@cpe-24-58-207-250.twcny.res.rr.com) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:14:16 <somerville32>	I've been away in the hospital for the last little while so I'm a bit disorientated.
Feb 17 11:14:25 <somerville32>	Luckily they let me come home for a weekend :)
Feb 17 11:14:34 *	issocabin (i=issocabi@219.148.226.141) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:14:37 <highvoltage>	nice
Feb 17 11:14:49 <highvoltage>	how's janimo doing? been a while since I heard from him
Feb 17 11:15:01 <somerville32>	I heard RL is getting to him
Feb 17 11:15:08 <somerville32>	ie. consuming more and more time
Feb 17 11:15:17 <somerville32>	I've never seen him on IRC
Feb 17 11:15:19 <highvoltage>	ah
Feb 17 11:15:27 <somerville32>	Just correspondence via e-mail
Feb 17 11:15:41 <highvoltage>	yeah, email seems the best way to stay in touch
Feb 17 11:16:03 <highvoltage>	somerville32: did you get any other pongbacks for the xubuntu meeting?
Feb 17 11:16:03 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 11:16:18 <somerville32>	Errmm... not yet
Feb 17 11:16:19 <somerville32>	lol
Feb 17 11:16:41 <highvoltage>	:)
Feb 17 11:16:43 <somerville32>	This time has never really been too good
Feb 17 11:16:48 <somerville32>	We might need to change it
Feb 17 11:17:00 <somerville32>	The wednesday meetings tend to get more people
Feb 17 11:17:03 *	LordGamer (n=LordGame@74.12.56.244) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:17:14 <highvoltage>	seems so, yes
Feb 17 11:17:27 <highvoltage>	for some people weekends seem to be better sometimes
Feb 17 11:17:31 <highvoltage>	perhaps alternate it?
Feb 17 11:17:36 <somerville32>	We do, Wedo
Feb 17 11:17:42 <somerville32>	Wednesday and Saturday
Feb 17 11:18:11 <highvoltage>	d'oh!
Feb 17 11:18:20 *	highvoltage has been out of touch with xubuntu meetings
Feb 17 11:18:38 <somerville32>	Hopefully a few more people show up because there is a concrete agenda for today
Feb 17 11:18:39 *	hyper_ch (n=hyper@217-162-77-97.dclient.hispeed.ch) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:18:50 <highvoltage>	I would probably be away now if I didn't get a burn on my arm from my motorbike today
Feb 17 11:19:00 <highvoltage>	but I'll make a point of being here more often for the meetings
Feb 17 11:19:08 <somerville32>	Awesome :)
Feb 17 11:19:55 <cbx33>	how many people are involved in xubuntu...if you don't mind my asking
Feb 17 11:20:10 <somerville32>	Tough question
Feb 17 11:20:47 <somerville32>	4-6 different people, I'd say
Feb 17 11:20:48 <highvoltage>	as far as I understand, janimo packages most of the core packages, and then there's a cloud of xubuntu around that
Feb 17 11:21:04 *	lmanul has quit ("Ex-Chat")
Feb 17 11:21:13 <highvoltage>	the xfce packages from xubuntu are going on the second edubuntu cd as well
Feb 17 11:21:17 <somerville32>	Janimo, Gpocentrek, Crimsun, and myself too most of the packaging stuff
Feb 17 11:21:22 <somerville32>	s/too/do
Feb 17 11:21:22 <highvoltage>	that might help xubuntu in the long run
Feb 17 11:21:25 <somerville32>	:D
Feb 17 11:21:31 <somerville32>	Thats pretty cool
Feb 17 11:22:02 <somerville32>	How is Edubuntu doing with testing?
Feb 17 11:22:04 <cbx33>	highvoltage, AWESOME
Feb 17 11:22:04 *	kalikiana (n=kalikian@xdsl-87-78-112-232.netcologne.de) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:22:07 <somerville32>	Thats someone we're struggling with
Feb 17 11:22:08 *	mako has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
Feb 17 11:22:10 <hyper_ch>	may I ask something?
Feb 17 11:22:14 <cbx33>	testing it always hard
Feb 17 11:22:28 <somerville32>	hyper_ch, Sure :)
Feb 17 11:23:00 <hyper_ch>	what I wonder is the following: When I install Ubuntu (for example) and then do sudo aptitude install xubuntu-desktop --> why isn't it the same as when I install xubuntu directly?
Feb 17 11:23:25 <highvoltage>	somerville32: cbx33 is probably edubuntu's most prominent tester, probably followed by myself
Feb 17 11:23:31 <highvoltage>	somerville32: well, except from ogra, that is
Feb 17 11:23:35 <cbx33>	indeed
Feb 17 11:23:44 <cbx33>	I test, but I suppose I dev more and more lately
Feb 17 11:23:54 <highvoltage>	somerville32: some schools also switch to the next version before release, giving good feedback
Feb 17 11:23:54 <kalikiana>	hyper_ch, what is different exactly?
Feb 17 11:24:30 <hyper_ch>	kalikiana: can't tell... it just doesn't look the same and hasn't the same appz installed as by a default installation of xubuntu
Feb 17 11:24:40 <hyper_ch>	same goes if I install xubuntu and then add kubuntu-desktop
Feb 17 11:24:41 <hyper_ch>	and so on
Feb 17 11:25:58 <grazie>	somerville32: I was getting iinvolved with doing some xubuntu testing..i contacted jani about it..but now the ppc plus has been pulled it changes things :(
Feb 17 11:26:09 <kalikiana>	is it possibly fewer apps as in 'required' but without some optional things? i didn't actually notice that.
Feb 17 11:26:21 <grazie>	s/plus/plug/ ^^
Feb 17 11:26:42 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 11:26:54 *	finalbeta has quit ("An inconvenient truth www.climatecrisis.net")
Feb 17 11:27:24 <somerville32>	Alrighty
Feb 17 11:27:30 *	mako (n=mako@bork.hampshire.edu) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:27:31 <somerville32>	Today we need to discuss artwork, documentation, and testing
Feb 17 11:27:50 <somerville32>	I'd first like to focus on how we can improve testing to ensure that we get pre-releases out on time.
Feb 17 11:28:04 *	mako_ has quit (Connection timed out)
Feb 17 11:28:24 <somerville32>	I get the impression that people do test but maybe don't report it?
Feb 17 11:28:43 <Jmak>	Hey, I am here
Feb 17 11:29:08 *	baslin6 (n=sporter@adsl-66-139-164-25.dsl.ltrkar.swbell.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:30:08 <Jmak>	Iam working on some icons
Feb 17 11:30:13 <somerville32>	Hi Jmak
Feb 17 11:30:19 <somerville32>	We're just discussing testing
Feb 17 11:30:41 <Jmak>	I am testing feisty so far everything works great
Feb 17 11:30:57 <somerville32>	I think to resolve the issue with testing, we simply need to promote it more and make sure we're promoting the correct way of reporting so that the pre-releases get released automatically
Feb 17 11:31:02 *	cbx33 can proabably throw in a quick test of xubuntu feisty later in the week if that'll help
Feb 17 11:31:10 <somerville32>	cbx33, It would be a big help :)
Feb 17 11:31:10 <grazie>	somerville32: for myself...reports failures is fine...reporting passes is tedious..hence coverage is not recorded
Feb 17 11:31:16 <cbx33>	ok
Feb 17 11:31:17 <highvoltage>	somerville32: I test Xubuntu packages regularly for work purposes
Feb 17 11:31:20 <cbx33>	I'll set it downloading now
Feb 17 11:31:26 <highvoltage>	somerville32: but I don't report back on Xubuntu stuff
Feb 17 11:31:41 <highvoltage>	somerville32: so I'll make a point of giving more feedback
Feb 17 11:31:46 <cbx33>	install or desktop?
Feb 17 11:31:49 <cbx33>	preference?
Feb 17 11:32:23 *	j1mc (n=j1m@adsl-75-21-84-63.dsl.chcgil.sbcglobal.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:32:33 <somerville32>	highvoltage, Maybe there are ways to facilitate communication with Edubuntu and Xubuntu with regarding to testing to prevent duplications of efforts.
Feb 17 11:33:20 <grazie>	somerville32: I think a webform for test coverage would be good
Feb 17 11:33:35 <highvoltage>	somerville32: absolutely
Feb 17 11:33:55 *	|TP|Grunt has quit ("Leaving")
Feb 17 11:35:26 *	mako__ has quit (Connection timed out)
Feb 17 11:35:57 <somerville32>	How do people find using launchpad?
Feb 17 11:36:06 <somerville32>	Isn't that what we're suppose to be using these days?
Feb 17 11:36:18 <highvoltage>	most complaints are about the UI and the licensing
Feb 17 11:36:27 <highvoltage>	the UI is getting an overhaul, though
Feb 17 11:36:47 <highvoltage>	some people have posted screenshots of the new lp interface
Feb 17 11:37:08 <somerville32>	Linkie? :)
Feb 17 11:37:49 *	highvoltage looks for it
Feb 17 11:38:24 <grazie>	LP it's mostly good. However more assistance in what package to report against would be a big improvement
Feb 17 11:38:50 <grazie>	*is
Feb 17 11:39:32 *	alyn3d (n=alyn3d@unaffiliated/alyn3d) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:39:43 <highvoltage>	egh, I can't find it, I read it on planet ubuntu about a week ago
Feb 17 11:41:52 <somerville32>	Isn't there one specific package you're suppose to report ISO testing to?
Feb 17 11:41:58 <somerville32>	s/package/product
Feb 17 11:42:00 <highvoltage>	here's the post: http://www.ogmaciel.com/?p=321
Feb 17 11:42:07 <highvoltage>	can't remember where I saw the screenshots though
Feb 17 11:43:14 <grazie>	somerville32: yes, but when a bug is found bug report is also needed
Feb 17 11:43:17 <kalikiana>	I may say that I do like launchpad. Two drawbacks: license and random errors, but I think they've been working on the errors.
Feb 17 11:43:57 <hyper_ch>	btw, I have herd2 installed and it works good except that I was not able to run vmware
Feb 17 11:44:24 <highvoltage>	hyper_ch: it's best to test with the latest alpha, it might be fixed in herd4 now
Feb 17 11:44:57 <highvoltage>	hyper_ch: it might also be possible that you just need to install the kernal headers package, since vmware would not ship pre-compiled modules for feisty yet
Feb 17 11:45:02 <somerville32>	Xubuntu has been unable to release herd 3 and herd 4
Feb 17 11:45:09 <hyper_ch>	highvoltage: well, I haven't tested it so far again because I used the same /home as in edgy and the quicklauncher was replaced... feisty doesn't like the one from edgy and vice-versa
Feb 17 11:45:09 <somerville32>	I'd like to be able to get the release candidate out
Feb 17 11:45:10 <highvoltage>	oh wow, ok
Feb 17 11:45:27 <grazie>	rync is excellent for keeping up to date!
Feb 17 11:45:41 <grazie>	*rsync
Feb 17 11:45:58 <somerville32>	grazie: The issue is that the distro team won't release it until we can prove we've tested the ISOs
Feb 17 11:46:00 <Jmak>	somerville32: take a look at the new terminal icon, i just emailed to the list
Feb 17 11:46:30 *	somerville32 nods at Jmak.
Feb 17 11:46:43 <somerville32>	I dunno if it is because of lack of man power or lack of reports
Feb 17 11:46:54 <grazie>	somerville32: what proof do they need?
Feb 17 11:47:22 *	duglas has quit ("Leaving")
Feb 17 11:47:32 <somerville32>	Just people saying it worked
Feb 17 11:47:35 *	issocabin has quit (No route to host)
Feb 17 11:47:35 <somerville32>	Same as the other distros
Feb 17 11:47:57 <grazie>	somerville32: that can be arranged :)
Feb 17 11:48:28 <somerville32>	Awesome.
Feb 17 11:48:37 <somerville32>	Does Edubuntu have a testing team?
Feb 17 11:48:39 *	issocabin (i=issocabi@219.148.226.143) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 11:49:04 <highvoltage>	somerville32: it does. it's fairly loose, there's a team in LP too
Feb 17 11:49:13 <highvoltage>	somerville32: and a bunch of wiki pages for co-ordination
Feb 17 11:49:15 *	issocabin has quit (Client Quit)
Feb 17 11:49:27 <somerville32>	highvoltage, Do you find it effective?
Feb 17 11:49:46 <highvoltage>	somerville32: it could be better, but so far it has worked well
Feb 17 11:49:56 <highvoltage>	somerville32: we'll need something better as edubuntu becomes more complicated
Feb 17 11:50:22 <highvoltage>	somerville32: the benefig that edubuntu has is, it uses the exact same desktop environment as ubuntu, so it gets a lot of free testing there
Feb 17 11:50:22 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 11:50:42 <highvoltage>	somerville32: i think xubuntu's testing is even a bit more work than with edubuntu
Feb 17 11:50:54 <somerville32>	The biggest thing is making sure the ISOs are tested for us
Feb 17 11:50:54 <grazie>	somerville32: I suppose what I really meant is that saying that the iso's worked can easily be faked :(
Feb 17 11:51:08 <highvoltage>	ah I see
Feb 17 11:51:28 <j1mc>	somerville32, i had a great install experience with the nightlies leading up to herd4.
Feb 17 11:51:41 <somerville32>	j1mc: Did you report that?
Feb 17 11:51:46 <j1mc>	no  :(
Feb 17 11:51:51 <somerville32>	hehe
Feb 17 11:51:54 <somerville32>	See, we need that
Feb 17 11:52:05 <somerville32>	We need to get an official testing team together maybe
Feb 17 11:52:07 <j1mc>	i'm mostly on xubuntu-user mailing list.
Feb 17 11:52:21 <somerville32>	j1mc: Would you like to head up an Xubuntu testing team?
Feb 17 11:52:47 <j1mc>	what would it entail?  are there other examples of testing teams?
Feb 17 11:53:13 <somerville32>	IT seems like you already do quite a bit of testing
Feb 17 11:53:30 <somerville32>	So you'd just need to recruit a few more people to help you out and schedule regular testing
Feb 17 11:53:46 <somerville32>	Especially just before a pre-release
Feb 17 11:53:59 <somerville32>	So that we can release an image as the pre-release
Feb 17 11:54:05 <j1mc>	sure.  i think i can do that.
Feb 17 11:54:12 <somerville32>	What platforms can you test on?
Feb 17 11:54:54 <j1mc>	just i386 right now.
Feb 17 11:55:06 <somerville32>	Ok
Feb 17 11:55:08 <j1mc>	i could get another machine pretty easily.  i volunteer for free geek chicago
Feb 17 11:55:11 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 11:55:31 <j1mc>	we use xubuntu there, so they'd be willing to donate a machine.
Feb 17 11:55:34 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 11:55:58 <somerville32>	So you'd just need to find a few dedicated individuals who could help test the other official platforms too
Feb 17 11:56:06 <somerville32>	Awesome! :)
Feb 17 11:56:36 <j1mc>	and then get them to report their results.  :)
Feb 17 11:56:42 <j1mc>	hehe
Feb 17 11:56:51 *	somerville32 hands j1mc the "Xubuntu ISO QA Manager" hat.
Feb 17 11:57:09 *	j1mc accepts hat
Feb 17 11:57:29 <somerville32>	I directed the testing for Herd 2 so we'll have to get together to chat ASAP.
Feb 17 11:57:34 <somerville32>	I'll pass off everything I have to you
Feb 17 11:57:43 <j1mc>	i think you set up a wiki about testing, so i'll want to look at that.
Feb 17 11:57:48 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 11:58:15 <somerville32>	You'll also want to review all the ISO qa stuff you can find on the wiki for the other derivatives too to see how we can improve our processes.
Feb 17 11:58:21 <j1mc>	i emailed you about xubuntu-docs, so you have my email address
Feb 17 11:58:29 <somerville32>	Ok, aweosme
Feb 17 11:58:31 <somerville32>	*awesome :)
Feb 17 11:58:32 <j1mc>	ok
Feb 17 12:00:05 <j1mc>	i work at a healthcare software company (just in the HR dept, though), but I know some QA people.  i can talk w/ them about what they do for QA, too.
Feb 17 12:00:14 <somerville32>	Awesome :)
Feb 17 12:00:31 <somerville32>	If things go well, your position might evolve into a more general Xubuntu QA guy if you'd like
Feb 17 12:00:43 <somerville32>	Up to you :)
Feb 17 12:01:01 <somerville32>	But for now, we need to focus on the ISO testing for upcoming Feisty Release (yea!!) :D
Feb 17 12:01:29 <j1mc>	Sounds great, somerville32 (the initial testing for Feisty, that is)  :)
Feb 17 12:01:54 <j1mc>	i'll be in touch with you
Feb 17 12:02:21 <somerville32>	Perfect.
Feb 17 12:02:35 <somerville32>	I feel much better about that now that there is someone leading that up
Feb 17 12:02:37 <somerville32>	Thanks a bunch j1mc
Feb 17 12:02:51 <somerville32>	Next on the agenda is Artwork, Jmak :)
Feb 17 12:04:47 <highvoltage>	j1mc++
Feb 17 12:05:02 <hyper_ch>	btw, I had one big problem with feisty... I have IDE and SDA drives and after the isntall everything was mixed up.... grub wasn't able to select/assign them correctly
Feb 17 12:05:11 <j1mc>	haha  j1mc++  :)
Feb 17 12:05:36 <somerville32>	j1mc: A good person to chat with is sfflaw as he heads up ubuntu-qa (which extends to Xubuntu)
Feb 17 12:05:42 <hyper_ch>	but that's not xubuntu specific
Feb 17 12:05:57 <j1mc>	thanks . . .  i'll note that.
Feb 17 12:06:45 <somerville32>	Awesome.
Feb 17 12:06:52 <somerville32>	Jmak, ping
Feb 17 12:07:04 <j1mc>	Jmak, I think the new terminal icon looks great.
Feb 17 12:08:15 <somerville32>	Jmak, Did any of the new artwork get uploaded yet?
Feb 17 12:08:47 <j1mc>	Seems like Jmak is away . . . is there another agenda item that we can go to, and then come back to artwork?
Feb 17 12:09:04 *	azeem has quit (Operation timed out)
Feb 17 12:09:16 <somerville32>	Documentation
Feb 17 12:09:30 <j1mc>	Yessss  :)
Feb 17 12:09:42 <Jmak>	They are on the wike page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Feisty/Incoming
Feb 17 12:10:00 <j1mc>	oh, there's Jmak.  back to artwork then.
Feb 17 12:10:43 <somerville32>	But nothing has been uploaded to the repositories?
Feb 17 12:11:12 <Jmak>	as far as know none
Feb 17 12:11:23 <somerville32>	ok
Feb 17 12:11:27 <somerville32>	I'll upload some of it
Feb 17 12:11:36 <Jmak>	ok
Feb 17 12:11:40 <somerville32>	Anything else you'd like to touch on jmak?
Feb 17 12:11:41 <j1mc>	One thing I like about ubuntu's new GDM login is that the font has a bit more weight to it.  perhaps it's just bolded, but it looks more professional.
Feb 17 12:12:01 <Jmak>	We have to decide on the use of icons
Feb 17 12:12:11 <Jmak>	Tango?
Feb 17 12:12:23 <Jmak>	Dropline looks great
Feb 17 12:13:11 <somerville32>	link?
Feb 17 12:14:04 <Jmak>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Feisty/Desktop/Incoming
Feb 17 12:14:07 *	cbx33 now has the install iso
Feb 17 12:14:10 <cbx33>	I'll give it a go
Feb 17 12:14:15 <somerville32>	cbx33, Thanks
Feb 17 12:14:39 <somerville32>	Dropline isn't bad
Feb 17 12:15:02 <Jmak>	I like it too
Feb 17 12:15:14 <somerville32>	Is it complete?
Feb 17 12:15:29 <Jmak>	The most popular icon set on the gnome look org
Feb 17 12:15:43 <somerville32>	Ok
Feb 17 12:15:47 <Jmak>	Very complete
Feb 17 12:16:09 <j1mc>	fwiw, i think the gion icon set looks great, too.
Feb 17 12:16:15 <somerville32>	:)
Feb 17 12:16:15 <somerville32>	Ok
Feb 17 12:16:28 *	vlad92 (n=root@89.40.153.139) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 12:16:38 <somerville32>	Jmak: Do you have a "package" to present yet?
Feb 17 12:16:39 <Jmak>	But that one not very complate
Feb 17 12:17:07 <Jmak>	What package?
Feb 17 12:17:12 *	j_ack has quit ("Ex-Chat")
Feb 17 12:17:38 <somerville32>	Like, you're going to have to present a package that includes all the changes you'd like to make so that we can see what it looks like
Feb 17 12:17:45 <somerville32>	And then if it gets approved, it gets implemented
Feb 17 12:18:51 *	vlad92 (n=root@89.40.153.139) has left #ubuntu-meeting ("Konversation terminated!")
Feb 17 12:18:53 <Jmak>	The artworks on the wiki are now, pretty complate
Feb 17 12:19:15 *	azeem (n=mbanck@host109.natpool.mwn.de) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 12:19:15 *	alyn3d is away: Traduc o chestie...
Feb 17 12:19:24 *	alyn3d (n=alyn3d@unaffiliated/alyn3d) has left #ubuntu-meeting ("* Stopping alyn3d IRC user...                   [ ok ]")
Feb 17 12:20:04 <somerville32>	It is hard to navigate and see what is decided
Feb 17 12:20:24 <somerville32>	I dunno what should be changed to accomplish what you want
Feb 17 12:20:42 <somerville32>	I just a few screenshots here and there
Feb 17 12:21:00 <Jmak>	I already sent some time ago the xubuntu.xml to the list, I hope someone saved that too
Feb 17 12:21:16 *	finalbeta (n=finalbet@d5152A68A.access.telenet.be) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 12:21:53 <Jmak>	From the wiki I will deleat all artworks except the final ones. Is that ok?
Feb 17 12:22:07 <somerville32>	No
Feb 17 12:22:09 <somerville32>	Please don't
Feb 17 12:22:44 <somerville32>	Create a new wiki page that clearly outlines the gtk theme engine, theme, icons, etc.
Feb 17 12:22:51 <somerville32>	Give each package a name
Feb 17 12:23:04 <Jmak>	ok
Feb 17 12:23:08 <somerville32>	And then organize it under that name
Feb 17 12:23:16 <j1mc>	that sounds like a good approach
Feb 17 12:23:35 <somerville32>	So, if there are a few "packages" that you'd like to propose
Feb 17 12:23:42 <somerville32>	You might nickname them A, B, and C
Feb 17 12:23:57 *	dindatx has quit (Read error: 145 (Connection timed out))
Feb 17 12:24:04 <Jmak>	all right
Feb 17 12:24:08 <somerville32>	And then you'd create a wiki page for each package and have everything related to it on that page (or linked under that page)
Feb 17 12:24:17 <somerville32>	Make sure to have a clear hierarchy when actually naming the pages
Feb 17 12:24:21 <somerville32>	ie.
Feb 17 12:24:33 <somerville32>	Xubuntu/Artwork/Proposed/A
Feb 17 12:24:46 <somerville32>	Xubuntu/Artwork/Proposed/B
Feb 17 12:24:47 <somerville32>	Xubuntu/Artwork/Proposed/C
Feb 17 12:25:43 <Jmak>	ok
Feb 17 12:25:44 <somerville32>	That way when we visit Xubuntu/Artwork/Proposed/A it shows us exactly how Xubuntu would look if we went with Option A
Feb 17 12:27:26 <somerville32>	:)
Feb 17 12:27:36 <Jmak>	sounds good
Feb 17 12:27:53 <somerville32>	Unfortunately there is a deadline
Feb 17 12:27:58 <somerville32>	Can you get this all done by the 22nd?
Feb 17 12:28:06 <somerville32>	Thats 5 days
Feb 17 12:28:20 <Jmak>	Sure I can do the weekend
Feb 17 12:28:26 <somerville32>	Ok, perfect.
Feb 17 12:28:31 <somerville32>	After 22nd, we will start voting
Feb 17 12:28:43 <Jmak>	ok
Feb 17 12:29:03 <somerville32>	March 15th is the FINAL deadline
Feb 17 12:30:18 <somerville32>	We'll be decided on the artwork at the next meeting
Feb 17 12:30:32 <somerville32>	*deciding
Feb 17 12:30:38 <Jmak>	ok
Feb 17 12:30:39 <somerville32>	So please be ready :)
Feb 17 12:30:59 <Jmak>	sounds good
Feb 17 12:31:22 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 12:31:27 <somerville32>	Ok, lets talk about Documentation
Feb 17 12:31:29 <Jmak>	Now I go and start plannning it
Feb 17 12:31:39 <Jmak>	see you next time
Feb 17 12:31:43 <j1mc>	thanks, Jmak
Feb 17 12:32:01 *	Jmak (n=mak@h66-201-246-248.gtcust.grouptelecom.net) has left #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 17 12:32:51 <somerville32>	j1mc: Re testing: Herd 5 will be released March 1st
Feb 17 12:33:06 <somerville32>	I'd really like to see Herd 5 be released via the efforts of your new team :)
Feb 17 12:33:24 <j1mc>	ok.  i'll do my best.
Feb 17 12:33:54 <somerville32>	Ok, onto Documentation
Feb 17 12:34:07 <somerville32>	We're doing better then Edgy
Feb 17 12:34:13 <somerville32>	We've seen some small updates
Feb 17 12:34:20 <somerville32>	But nothing substantial has been completed
Feb 17 12:35:02 <j1mc>	i saw your spec up.  how does that stand?
Feb 17 12:35:24 <j1mc>	i can't remember the name of it off hand.
Feb 17 12:35:30 <somerville32>	That'll have to be deferred to Feisty+1
Feb 17 12:35:42 <somerville32>	Where we'll really have to pull up our socks
Feb 17 12:35:53 <somerville32>	For the rest of this release, we should focus on improving current documentation
Feb 17 12:36:04 <somerville32>	ie. removing/updating outdated info
Feb 17 12:36:16 <somerville32>	And adding in new stuff that is applicable
Feb 17 12:36:35 <j1mc>	i've been filing just a few bug reports, but would like to file some more.
Feb 17 12:36:41 <somerville32>	We simple do not have time to do the big overhaul that the other derivatives have done with their documentation.
Feb 17 12:36:47 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 12:36:49 <hyper_ch>	btw, how do you select the appz that get added to the standard install?
Feb 17 12:37:41 <somerville32>	seeds
Feb 17 12:37:59 <somerville32>	j1mc: Are you interested in helping with documentation?
Feb 17 12:38:35 <j1mc>	i am, but i don't know docbook xml.  i have the current ubuntu-docs files installed locally via subversion, though.
Feb 17 12:38:43 <somerville32>	It is pretty easy
Feb 17 12:39:00 <somerville32>	It isn't anything special
Feb 17 12:39:17 <somerville32>	I think we should organize a documentation sprint
Feb 17 12:39:27 <j1mc>	yeah . . .  i think that if i'm going to be doing the QA stuff, that i shouldn't try to take on too much writing of documentation.
Feb 17 12:39:28 <somerville32>	Unfortunately, with me being in the hospital currently, I dunno when we could
Feb 17 12:39:37 <somerville32>	j1mc: *nods*
Feb 17 12:39:45 <j1mc>	my regular job is going to be pretty crazy between now and the end of the month.
Feb 17 12:40:17 <somerville32>	:D
Feb 17 12:40:18 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 12:40:21 <j1mc>	i plan to do a major bug reporting day, though.  checking links, looking for items that are outdated, etc.
Feb 17 12:40:25 <somerville32>	Alrighty, so we'll try to set a date for a sprint
Feb 17 12:40:35 <somerville32>	Where we all get together on IRC and work on the documentation
Feb 17 12:40:49 <somerville32>	We can discuss the date on the xubuntu-devel and -users mailing list
Feb 17 12:41:04 <j1mc>	would it be good to have the bugs filed prior to our sprint?
Feb 17 12:41:34 <somerville32>	We'll certainly review the bugs at the sprint
Feb 17 12:41:44 <somerville32>	So it would be a good way to create a todo list if you'd like
Feb 17 12:41:57 <somerville32>	Infact, that would be a wonderful idea
Feb 17 12:42:03 <somerville32>	It would make it easy for new people to find things to do
Feb 17 12:42:04 <j1mc>	yes... it would help to focus our efforts
Feb 17 12:42:10 *	somerville32 nods.
Feb 17 12:42:38 <somerville32>	Alrighty
Feb 17 12:42:43 <somerville32>	This has been a VERY productive meeting :)
Feb 17 12:42:45 *	somerville32 is happy.
Feb 17 12:43:27 <somerville32>	highvoltage, What do you call your guy's qa team?
Feb 17 12:43:28 <j1mc>	ok . . . i have tomorrow and monday off from work, so look for a bunch of bug reports from me over the next few days.
Feb 17 12:43:32 <somerville32>	:D
Feb 17 12:43:35 <somerville32>	j1mc++
Feb 17 12:43:53 <j1mc>	haha
Feb 17 12:45:17 <j1mc>	is that it for documentation?
Feb 17 12:46:00 <somerville32>	I guess so :)
Feb 17 12:46:48 <j1mc>	ok, well, we'll get the bugs filed, and then . . . do you want to set a tentative date for the doc-sprint?
Feb 17 12:47:08 <somerville32>	Well, I dunno when I'll be discharged from the hospital and I'd really like to be at the sprint
Feb 17 12:47:14 <somerville32>	Not to say that you can't hold it without me
Feb 17 12:47:51 <j1mc>	no, i think it would be best if you were there.
Feb 17 12:47:57 <somerville32>	Alright
Feb 17 12:48:07 <somerville32>	We can discuss it on the mailing list and I'll try my best to get there.
Feb 17 12:48:30 <j1mc>	ok.  good luck getting better!
Feb 17 12:48:34 <somerville32>	Thanks :)
Feb 17 12:48:54 <somerville32>	If there isn't anything else...
Feb 17 12:49:34 *	somerville32 declares the meeting over.
Feb 17 12:49:50 <j1mc>	thanks, somerville32
</pre>
