{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   03:02 Riddell      hi all
   03:02 rraphink     hi Riddell
   03:02 gnomefreak   hi
   03:02 rraphink     hi Hobbsee
   03:02 imbrandon    hey Riddell
   03:02 Hobbsee      hi rraphink, Riddell, gnomefreak, imbrandon
   03:02 mikix        hi everybody
   03:02 gnomefreak   hi Hobbsee ;)
   03:03 Riddell      lets start with names so we know who's here
   03:03 Hobbsee      hi mikix
   === Riddell is Jonathan Riddell
   === Hobbsee is Sarah Hobbs
   === rraphink is Raphael Pinson
   === seaLne is Kenny Duffus
   === gnomefreak John Vivirito
   === nixternal is Rich Johnson
   === OculusAquilae is Bastian Holst
   === mindspin is markus wimmer
   === imbrandon is Brandon Holtsclaw
   === Tonio_ is Anthony Mercatante
   === kwwii is Kenneth Wimer
   03:04 Riddell      good turnout :)
   === allee is Achim Bohnet
   03:04 Riddell      anyone here for membership?
   03:04 allee        hmm, no toma.  I jabber him
   03:04 Hobbsee      Riddell: very, yeah.  i'd liked to have seen lure and jjesse too...
   03:05 imbrandon    Riddell, looks like
   03:05 imbrandon    #
   03:05 Hobbsee      we have quorum, good.
   03:05 imbrandon    RichJohnson aka nixternal
   03:05 Hobbsee      Riddell: nixternal's a special case - the first two people on the CC ack'd him, and they were waiting on mako...and waiting...and waiting..
   03:05 Riddell      anyone know Andrej, Jay M. Mapalo, Rafael Proena, or rouzic?
   03:06 rraphink     ah right
   03:06 rraphink     Riddell: many of them have no wiki page
   03:06 nixternal    heh, sorry, was getting coffee... Hobbsee, i'm always a special case
   03:06 Hobbsee      Riddell: nope
   03:06 Hobbsee      hehe
   03:06 imbrandon    Riddell, not i
   03:06 allee        Riddell: no
   03:06 gnomefreak   me neither
   03:06 Riddell      I should probably e-mail them and ask why they signed up, they could well be involved with something we're not in contact with like translations
   03:06 Riddell      we should do nixternal then
   03:07 rraphink     translations you can see on LP
   03:07 Riddell      nixternal: care to introduce yourself?
   03:07 nixternal    heh, ok...here we go!!!
   03:07 Hobbsee      Riddell: yeah, then lets to artwork, and doco if jjesse makes it, then discuss anythign else
   === nixternal is Rich Johnson, 32 years old, Chicago Illinois, US....Sys Admin by trade
   03:07 Hobbsee      nixternal: please tell me your intro has been shortened....
   03:08 rraphink     hehe
   03:08 nixternal    i work with the doc team, wiki team, marketing team...do bug triage, support stuff, forums, irc, bug you guys...and just had my first packaged uploaded this week
   03:08 nixternal    short enough Hobbsee?
   03:08 nixternal   
   03:08 Hobbsee      nixternal: launchpad page link :P
   03:08 imbrandon    wiki page ?
   03:08 nixternal    you caught me offguard, so i didn't get to c/p my other one
   03:08 Riddell      nixternal: you're doing the switching from windows doc right?
   03:08 nixternal    https://launchpad.net/people/nixternal
   03:08 nixternal    yes Riddell
   03:08 Riddell      nixternal: how's that going?
   03:09 nixternal    it is just starting right now...we have the base down, and now we are in the process of gathering content
   03:09 Riddell      I'm looking forward to it
   03:09 nixternal    there could very well end up being various versions as the community excitement is quite high for the documentation
   03:09 nixternal    as i am
   03:10 rraphink     nixternal: how are you related to Kubuntu in particular?
   03:10 rraphink     (I mean vs. Ubuntu in general)
   03:10 Hobbsee      with the new user config tool, mentioned in your wiki page, may i mention that the way amarok handles mp3 support is *very* clever.  right now, it's broken, but i have a fix that i'm going to test soon on my hard drive.
   03:10 nixternal    i support mainly kubuntu since all i have really used is kde for years...i am helping jjesse with all of the kubuntu documentation
   03:10 rraphink     ok
   03:11 nixternal    i am picking up the packaging aspect with the help of Hobbsee and imbrandon
   === imbrandon notes for everyone nixternal is the founder of the Chicago LoCo team and active in the Bug Squad / Laptop Testing / Documentation and IRC
   03:11 nixternal    im gettin' ready to go back to school to knock the programming rust off, since i decided to change fields about 10 years ago and quit programming
   03:11 gnomefreak   and marketing
   === Hobbsee looks. specs are *way* too high for karma!
   03:11 mindspin     and he is one of the few kubuntu guys in the marketing team
   03:12 nixternal    oooh..gnomefreak, if jenda seen i introduced myself and didn't say i was part of the marketing team i would never hear the end of it  thanks
   03:12 Riddell      we have a marketing team? cool
   03:12 nixternal    ya Riddell
   03:12 rraphink     :)
   03:12 gnomefreak   yw nixternal
   03:12 toma         vote++
   03:12 rraphink     sounds very nice
   03:12 Tonio_       did knew this ! sounds nice
   03:12 gnomefreak   yep ;)
   03:12 allee        anyone that worked directly with nixternal?  comments?
   03:12 nixternal    plus the classroom
   03:12 gnomefreak   hes alsoa  big part of NuN
   03:12 rraphink     nixternal: is the classroom related to the MOTU school anyhow?
   03:12 nixternal    in the forums helping out...both ubuntu and kubuntu of course
   03:13 [Nirvana]    He's a member of Kubuntuforums.net, good guy
   03:13 nixternal    no rraphink..it is the NewUserNetwork
   03:13 imbrandon    allee, i work with him alot, he is very active on irc helping and learing packaing
   03:13 [Nirvana]    and a damn fast typer... jeez
   03:13 nixternal    heh
   03:13 gnomefreak   i think hes doing great in every team he is a part in
   03:13 nixternal    150+ wpm
   03:13 rraphink     :)
   03:13 Hobbsee      allee: yeah, i've worked with him, sometimes poking him to do various bits of documentation, and helping him out with packaging
   03:13 nixternal    and chasing with the big pointy stick
   03:13 Riddell      so lets vote
   03:14 allee        Hobbsee: don't steal too much time from him documentation writing time ;)
   03:14 Tonielmo     ack
   03:14 Hobbsee      nixternal: well...
   03:14 rraphink     +1
   03:14 Riddell      toma: want to go first? :)
   03:14 Hobbsee      +1
   03:14 rraphink     Tonio_: lol
   03:14 Tonio_       raphink: ^^ I promissed to do it one day :)
   03:14 rraphink     Tonio_: hehe :)
   03:14 Riddell      +1 from me
   03:14 Tonio_       +1 for me based on jjesse feedback, since I discussed a lot with him concerning the docs a few weeks ago
   03:14 Riddell      welcome to kubuntu membership nixternal
   03:14 toma         +1
   === allee +1 for nixternal.
   03:15 nixternal    ty very much guys!!!!  you all rock!!!!
   03:15 Tonio_       nixternal: welcome aboard
   03:15 imbrandon    congrats nixternal ;)
   03:15 nixternal    thank you!!!
   03:15 gnomefreak   congrats nixternal
   03:15 rraphink     welcome nixternal :)
   === nixternal feels special!!!
   03:15 [Nirvana]    congrats
   03:15 nixternal    lol
   03:15 Riddell      nixternal: I'll do the tick box thing after the meeting, poke me if I forget
   03:15 allee        well that was an easy choice
   03:15 Hobbsee      :)
   === kdw [n=kdw@c-67-164-4-24.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:15 kwwii        get to work nixternal :-)
   03:15 Hobbsee      hehe
   03:15 nixternal    gahah
   03:15 nixternal    will do
   03:15 rraphink     kwwii: haha
   03:15 allee        congrats nixternal
   03:15 Hobbsee      kwwii: artwork status update?
   03:15 Riddell      Hobbsee suggested we go with an artwork update
   03:15 nixternal    after the meeting of course
   03:15 Hobbsee      seeing as you've just said that?
   03:15 nixternal    thank you everyone
   03:15 kwwii        ok, really quickly:
   === omeow wonders if someone ever got rejected.
   03:15 Riddell      omeow: yes
   03:15 Hobbsee      kwwii: i like the current usplash :P
   03:15 kwwii        until now we have specs which say that we are replacing the usplash, KDM, Desktop splash and Wallpaper.
   03:15 imbrandon    omeow, yes
   03:15 Hobbsee      omeow: yeah, last meeting, actually
   === Mithrandir [n=tfheen@c5100BC63.inet.catch.no] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:16 nixternal    yes omeow, tis why i waited a while
   03:16 Hobbsee      hi Mithrandir
   03:16 kwwii        I think we should also think about changing the app-start page for konqi as well as the help center.
   03:16 rraphink     Hobbsee: I think the current usplash is not kwwii's
   03:16 Hobbsee      ah
   03:16 Mithrandir   hi again, Hobbsee
   03:16 Hobbsee      whoever's it is
   === j_ack [n=nico@p508DA2C3.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:16 kwwii        Hobbsee: no, it is mine
   03:16 Hobbsee      ah :)
   03:16 rraphink     kwwii: like my wallpaper ? :)=
   === Hobbsee only installed edgy today - give her a break!
   03:16 Riddell      kwwii: my slight concern with that is we'd be diverging from the KDE stuff a bit
   03:16 kwwii        ahhh, actually I haven't checked edgy yet
   === freeflying [n=freeflyi@ubuntu/member/freeflying] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:17 kwwii        Riddell: so let's change the KDE stuff too
   03:17 imbrandon    and the default window deco , crystal is ugly imo ;)
   03:17 Riddell      kwwii: also the app-start page for konqi should in theory be mirrored in kontact, kmail, kcontrol, akgregator and kbabel
   03:17 kwwii        imbrandon: good point, I have an update for that too
   03:17 kwwii        Riddell: yepp, I know
   03:17 allee        imbrandon: what's ugly is up to the artits to decide ;)
   03:17 kwwii        we would need to do them all
   03:17 imbrandon    allee, yea ;)
   03:17 kwwii        that is why I am asking here instead of just barging ahead as normal
   03:18 allee        imbrandon: and we tell them if it's usable and acceptable ;)
   03:18 Hobbsee      imbrandon: i didnt think crystal was the current window deco, was it?  i thought that was polyester
   03:18 kwwii        so what does everyone think about that?
   03:18 imbrandon    Riddell, whats wrong with diverging form kde as far as artwork ( k-d-s ) ?
   === Hobbsee grabs a drink, and tries to make sense of all this.
   03:18 imbrandon    Hobbsee, not in edgy
   03:18 imbrandon    leaste not yet
   === kozz [i=kozz@213.66.184.18] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:19 allee        kwwii: consistent artwork is good to have
   03:19 Riddell      imbrandon: I've always positioned kubuntu a being close to KDE from an artwork view
   03:19 Riddell      but if kwwii can come up with some rocking design then lets do it
   03:19 imbrandon    allee, consistant with whom though, if we are taketing switchovers from windows or kde ?
   03:19 allee        kwwii: but IMHO comon icons/themes first, then app specific stuff
   === gnomefreak likes the wallpaper (simple and nice) in edgy kubuntu
   03:19 kwwii        http://bootsplash.org/snapshot3.png shows my desktop with the changes I have made so far
   03:20 kwwii        I will still update the buttons
   03:20 allee        imbrandon: consistent as 'used in Kubuntu'
   03:20 nixternal    heh, and it's purple
   03:20 Hobbsee      kwwii: would you be talking a colour change, etc, or changing the way the buttons are located?
   03:20 imbrandon    allee, ahh yes
   03:20 Riddell      kwwii: which buttons
   03:20 Hobbsee      kwwii: pretty :)
   03:20 Riddell      ?
   03:20 imbrandon    allee, i agree totaly but i do think the artwork for kubutu shouldent be a clone of every other kde setup out there , i'm not saying the FUNCTION just the artwork
   03:20 allee        kwwii: brown folder icons?
   03:21 Riddell      I think we're onto a winner with the purple
   03:21 kwwii        Hobbsee: check that screenshot and you'll see that I changed the gradients used in the titlebar, the colors, and the window buttons in the titlebar need new pixmaps, as those do not fit
   03:21 Hobbsee      :)
   03:21 imbrandon    Riddell, the min max close
   03:21 [Nirvana]    kubuntu edgy is purple?
   === nixternal admits that is a 'nice' shade of purple kwwii
   03:21 kwwii        imbrandon: exactly
   03:21 Hobbsee      kwwii: right, okay
   03:21 Hobbsee      [Nirvana] : yes
   03:21 Hobbsee      kwwii: i'm not great on artwork stuff :)
   03:21 kwwii        :-)
   03:21 Tonio_       I'm not a fan of purple, but that's probably interesting since this color isn't widely used
   03:22 Hobbsee      Tonio_: next time suggest pink, mmm kay?
   03:22 Hobbsee      :P
   03:22 nixternal    just on gentoo
   03:22 Tonio_       and since it is kwwii, I'm of course self confident is the result
   === jeekl [n=crz@h169n1c1o1104.bredband.skanova.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:22 kwwii        the good thing is, if I do it right, we could change the purple to blue pretty quickly if things don't work out well
   03:22 Tonio_       nixternal: at least it is more original than blue....
   03:22 Tonio_       ;)
   03:22 mindspin     the brown folders look stragnge to me
   03:22 nixternal    oh i totally agree
   03:22 gnomefreak   while were ont her topic is there any way to intergrate a "themes changer" so new users can do it without compiling themes?
   03:22 nixternal    i actually like it...i said as long as it wasn't 'barney purple'
   03:22 [Nirvana]    kinda reminds me of the kubuntu amsn theme
   03:22 Hobbsee      kwwii: my personal opinion:  assuming we're discussing colours, etc, i'm fine with it changing to be whatever - but we probably shouldnt change from the kde defaults, unless we have a good reason to
   03:22 imbrandon    yea the brown does look a bit strange against the purple
   03:23 kwwii        Hobbsee: I totally agree
   03:23 Hobbsee      gnomefreak: it's there, in system settings.  but system settings is a confusing mess.
   03:23 gnomefreak   ah ok
   03:23 omeow        Is the kicker going to stay that size by default too?
   03:23 Hobbsee      kwwii: cool :)  in fact, in one of my points i'm wanting to revert a couple of changes
   03:23 allee        Tonio_: that purple is not used often may have a reason that is not originality
   03:23 kwwii        the brown icons are just a test I did when I made that screenshot
   03:23 Riddell      omeow: no
   03:23 omeow        Ok, good. :)
   03:23 kwwii        Hobbsee: like what?
   03:23 imbrandon    Hobbsee,  we have a good reason , we;re not kde ;) i do think the artwork for kubutu shouldent be a clone of every other kde setup out there , i'm not saying the FUNCTION just the artwork
   03:24 Hobbsee      kwwii: the change to konq that i want to make?
   03:24 Hobbsee      imbrandon: yeah, exactly
   03:24 [Nirvana]    um, this may sound silly, but why is the default k menu the K instead of the kubuntu logo?
   03:24 kwwii        Hobbsee: if we change the kde stuff as well, and simply use a few different pics for kubuntu that is pretty much the same
   03:25 Hobbsee      kwwii: cool :)
   03:25 omeow        I don't like the switch user, lock session and log out buttons.
   03:25 Riddell      [Nirvana] : because we don't want to hide our KDE-ness
   03:25 imbrandon    [Nirvana] , becosue kwwii hasent designed us a uber leet kubuntu button ;)
   03:25 allee        imbrandon: we should take the best from KDE and not preplace it just because we want to be different
   03:25 omeow        The ones in dapper are nice because they each have a different colour. Making it easy to distinguish.
   03:25 [Nirvana]    I saw one around
   03:25 [Nirvana]    easyubuntu used to be able to change it to the kubuntu logo
   === nixternal wants to see the 'reinhardt' style come back
   03:25 kwwii        we could make a crystal kubuntu logo for use there if there is interest
   === Hobbsee reads back to see what kwwii is actually wanting approval over - to play with colours and see what looks good, right?
   03:26 allee        imbrandon: and if something is not that good, we should try better and give back so next time it's in KDE
   03:26 imbrandon    allee, right, but look at ubuntu branding , they have the logo on the application menu etc i think we should do some of the same
   03:26 freeflying   kwwii: nice, some icons like osx's  :)
   03:26 kwwii        oh, and the spinner in konqueror should be improved
   03:26 Riddell      Hobbsee: it was the new about:konq and help centre graphics
   03:26 kwwii        freeflying: that is the oxygen set we are working on
   03:26 mindspin     I agree with omeow concerning the switch user etc. buttons
   03:27 Riddell      kwwii: that's rendered from a 3d model, I'd need to dig up the guy who did it
   03:27 Hobbsee      Riddell: right, that's what i thought.  we've just gone veering off somehow.
   03:27 mindspin     colours would be nice
   03:27 Hobbsee      +1 mindspin
   03:27 Riddell      Hobbsee: that happens with artwork
   03:27 Hobbsee      Riddell: hehe, true.
   03:27 imbrandon    ;)
   03:28 kwwii        well, the dapper release was kinda quick, as I started during the UI sprint
   === Hobbsee just learned a new way to get back to the first konq screen. nice!
   03:29 Riddell      kwwii: so looking good, new about:konq and help centre should be good too
   03:29 Riddell      shall we move on?
   03:29 imbrandon    yup
   03:29 kwwii        yepp
   03:29 Riddell      no jjesse, tsk
   03:29 Hobbsee      +1 to moving on
   03:29 Hobbsee      Riddell: yeah, he was trying to make it
   === allee agrees with Hobbsee
   03:29 Riddell      we should go to the agenda then http://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Meetings
   03:29 Riddell      [Nirvana] : you're first
   03:29 Hobbsee      Riddell: who's chairing?  i added a lot to the agenda :P
   03:30 [Nirvana]    whoops sorry
   03:30 imbrandon    [Nirvana] , your css stuff
   03:30 [Nirvana]    trying
   03:30 [Nirvana]    msgs aren't being sent
   03:30 Riddell      we can read you here, please introduce it
   03:30 [Nirvana]    So yeah, I made like 3-4 css changes to the kubuntu page
   03:31 Riddell      [Nirvana] : which one?
   03:31 Hobbsee      [Nirvana] : link to it?
   03:31 seaLne       is there a working version of http://halovids.buildyourforum.com/x/test.html somewhere?
   03:31 Hobbsee      the pastebin link is dead too.
   03:31 imbrandon    while we're waiting for [Nirvana]  i think what he is talking aobut can be filed against website-bugs and have the website team change the template if Riddell or whome ever agrees
   03:31 [Nirvana]    change buildyourforum to globalnetworld
   03:31 [Nirvana]    could be ^
   03:32 [Nirvana]    it's a cross, because it's about kubuntu and should use kubuntu colours, but is about the release (http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/kubuntu/6.06/ ) page
   03:32 seaLne       yep
   03:32 Riddell      http://halovids.globalnetworld.com/x/test.html
   03:32 Riddell      [Nirvana] : the icons needs crystalised :)
   03:32 [Nirvana]    I didn't change any icons
   03:32 Riddell      imbrandon: this isn't the website, it's managed quite differently
   03:33 [Nirvana]    just css
   03:33 imbrandon    crystal or oxygen ;)
   03:33 nixternal    Riddell: i can make a brief statement about kubuntu docs, however i don't know how detailed jjesse was planning
   03:33 Riddell      Kamion: how easy is it to have different CSS and icons for the Kubuntu pages on cdimage?
   03:34 Hobbsee      that page is quite badly laid out for new users - probably needs a section on what .manifest and .torrent, etc, are
   03:34 imbrandon    Riddell, releases no cdimage right ? cdimage is old i think
   03:34 Hobbsee      but anyway, that's not a kubuntu issue
   03:34 Riddell      imbrandon: cdimage is daily, releases is final things, they both come from the same teamplates
   03:34 imbrandon    ahh
   03:35 Riddell      [Nirvana] : I've no idea how easy this is, I'll talk to Kamion when he's around and find out, if it's not hard I'll make the changes
   03:35 [Nirvana]    what I did was go to the release page (where you download the iso) and saved it with firefox, then  open uo nvu and change some css, I didn't touch any text/icons or anything
   03:35 [Nirvana]    the added css is in the source underneath the @imports
   03:36 kwwii        guess we should use our own icons for that page too, or?
   03:36 Riddell      kwwii: ideally yes
   03:36 Riddell      but it's not the most important thing in the world, I'll only do it if it's easy
   03:36 Hobbsee      [Nirvana] : the "comment" on your next agenda item is  this?  Burning a VCD from AVI files is even trickier. In very broad strokes, youll need to install K3b, a CD burning program, and a package called VCDimager, and tell K3b where its located. Youll also need a command-line program called FFmpeg to convert AVI files to MPG, which is the format that K3b uses. Sounds complicated? It is, but its doable.
   03:36 kwwii        then let's dig those up from crystal, if it is technically possible
   03:36 Hobbsee      [Nirvana] : would be good if you'd listed which bit you wanted to talk about in the agenda, FYI
   03:38 Kamion       Riddell: not particularly hard, file a bug on /products/ubuntu-cdimage with what you want changed
   03:38 Riddell      Kamion: ok, cool
   03:38 Kamion       Riddell: would prefer not massively different CSS
   === claydoh [n=clay@bb-66-63-100-239.gwi.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:38 Kamion       at the moment I just use that from the Ubuntu website; if I can just use that from the Kubuntu website, that's cool
   03:38 allee        [Nirvana] : as you're an CSS expert. Check kubuntu wiki css why the fonts are different from default font size used in kubuntu
   03:39 Kamion       don't want to get into maintaining different CSS locally though
   === Nirvana [n=marco@CPE0080c8292db5-CM000f9f5158ce.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:39 Kamion       Hobbsee: ditto for you, bugs welcome
   03:40 Hobbsee      Kamion: hehe.  just watch me assign the entire archive to you :P
   03:40 imbrandon    lol
   03:40 Riddell      welcome back Nirvana, you have another agenda idem
   03:40 Nirvana      weird lagged out...
   03:40 Kamion       I can reject just as quickly as anyone else :P
   03:40 nixternal    note weird, but typical
   03:40 Nirvana      ahh
   03:40 nixternal    s/note/not
   03:40 nixternal   
   03:40 Nirvana      OK,
   03:40 Riddell      Nirvana: Kamion says it should be possible to get a different stylesheet used for those kubuntu pages so that should be doable
   03:41 Nirvana      comment: "As an addendum, I tried sharing the printer using Samba, but this task is really more difficult than it should be. Nobody should have to edit configuration files or to scour the mailing lists simply to share a printer on the network."
   03:41 Kamion       as long as it's maintained somewhere other than cdimage
   === Sho_ [i=ehs1@konversation/developer/hein] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:41 Hobbsee      hi Sho_!
   03:41 Sho_         moin
   03:41 Hobbsee      Sho_: welcome to the kubuntu meeting :)
   03:41 Riddell      Nirvana: we have a spec to turn on easy printer sharing, I don't know what's required to get that working with samba
   03:42 Nirvana      ahh, so deferred? or should I continue with what he said?
   03:42 imbrandon    moins Sho_ , Kamion like on kubuntu.org or some such and just linked from the html is cdimage ? sounds like a good plan
   03:42 Riddell      Nirvana: does he say what needs done?
   03:42 Nirvana      kinda
   03:42 Nirvana      comment:  I did try a number of solutions, but so far, no luck. This REALLY should be a matter of right-clicking the printer and opening up a share menu. Unfortunately, this is one of those areas that still needs improvement in making this distro even more user-friendly. Jerome, maybe this is something you can get intoa simple GUI method of sharing a printer on an Ubuntu machine?
   03:43 Kamion       I've changed the CSS on http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/dapper/ to be http://www.kubuntu.org/ubuntu.css; does that look better now? (you might have to reload a few times to catch a mirror that's updated)
   03:43 Kamion       obviously the icons still need to be done
   03:43 Nirvana      beautiful
   03:43 Nirvana      except
   === GNAM [n=GNAM@host199-235.pool8252.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === digitalmouse [n=jimm@p5481E19E.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:44 Nirvana      the cd downloads don't have a border bottom of 100% that's blue, they're just links
   03:44 digitalmouse greetings programs!  just here to listen in on the next meeting... (loggin in case I need to step out)
   03:44 Riddell      Kamion: still looks brown to me
   03:44 digitalmouse logging*
   03:44 Kamion       Riddell: keep reloading
   03:44 Nirvana      wait... it just turned brown when I refreshed
   03:44 Riddell      oh, it'll need to sync to all the servers of course
   03:44 seaLne       yeah it is working
   03:45 Kamion       Nirvana: the download list is just apache's fancy directory listing, I can't easily change that
   03:45 Nirvana      I figured
   03:45 Nirvana      but I didn't mean that
   03:46 seaLne       you ment the Desktop CD and Alternate install CD section headers?
   03:46 Riddell      hmm, it's missing some underlines on the headers
   03:46 Kamion       oh, that's CSS for <dt>, feel free to change the CSS on the website or provide me a URL on kubuntu.org with CSS that fixes that
   03:46 Riddell      Kamion: ok, will do
   03:47 Riddell      Nirvana: not much I can do about smb printer sharing frontends without knowing what needs done to the backend, if you could research that it would be cool
   03:48 seaLne       h3 dosen't have border-bottom: 2px solid #6e8ec1;
   03:48 Riddell      seaLne: yeah, it looked bad on kubuntu.org
   03:48 Riddell      imbrandon: firefox themes
   03:48 imbrandon    ok this is all pertaining to edgy
   03:48 imbrandon    Suggest creating firefox-kubuntu ( theme ) package to complement the new firefox-ubuntu ( theme ) dep so Kubuntu users who choose firefox don't have to deal with the brown theme ( can this not be a dep of u-d-s and not firefox so k-d-s can add a dep of firefox-kubuntu for the artwork/theme or even add it right to k-d-s )
   03:48 Riddell      I've not looked at the new stuff in ubuntu for this, I've no idea how easy it is to adapt
   === Hobbsee thinks imbrandon should make it.
   === nixternal too
   03:49 Hobbsee      imbrandon: there's a couple of links made on the...oh, where is it...
   03:49 Riddell      imbrandon: we can probably get firefox to depend on one or the other I'm not sure
   03:49 imbrandon    well my main this is why did they dep it on firefox and not uds , like when i installed edgy yesterday my ff is/was all browish ;)
   03:49 Riddell      ogra: what happened in eadubuntu with respect to ubuntu-firefox?
   03:50 seaLne       maybe if it is left brown they will use konq :)
   03:50 imbrandon    lol seaLne
   === Hobbsee shoots that wiki.kubuntu.org errror.
   03:50 nixternal    hehe Hobbsee
   03:50 ogra         Riddell, with regard to what ? the startpage?
   === Nrvana [n=marco@CPE0080c8292db5-CM000f9f5158ce.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:50 Riddell      ogra: the new themeing stuff
   03:50 nixternal    wiki.ubuntu.com does the same thing w/o the error
   03:50 Hobbsee      imbrandon: there's a couple of links made on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Packages/Candidates/Kubuntu with respect to that, no idea how easy it is to implement
   03:50 Nrvana       OK, lag out #2
   03:50 Riddell      ogra: I thought I saw you saying it looked bad in edubuntu
   03:50 ogra         nothing yet, i'm not happy about it
   03:51 imbrandon    Hobbsee, i know it is, but partialy itss a case of getting ubuntu-dev to dep firefox-ubuntu on uds not firefox its self
   03:51 ogra         we'll either have to ship our own theme or switch to epiphany ...
   03:51 ogra         the latter is very likely sonce we need it for kiosk mode anyway
   03:51 Hobbsee      ogra: ooh, i have a screensaver bug to assign to you.
   === kwwii_ [n=kwwii@p5495771B.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:51 Hobbsee      ogra: https://launchpad.net/bugs/49228
   03:51 Ubugtu       Malone bug 49228 in kdeartwork "kscreensaver-xsavers installed but screensavers from xscreensaver-gl missing" [Untriaged,Unconfirmed]
   03:51 Nrvana       can someone kick [Nirvana]
   03:52 ogra         Hobbsee, go ahead :)
   03:52 kwwii_       erm, my client died
   03:52 kwwii_       sorry
   03:52 Hobbsee      kwwii_: ghost it.  /msg nickserv ghost kwwii yourpassword
   03:52 Riddell      imbrandon: I imagine it's just a case of making a kubuntu-firefox package and having firefox depend on ubuntu-firefox | kubuntu-firefox
   03:52 Hobbsee      Nrvana: same thing
   03:52 Riddell      but I'm not sure without looking at it
   03:52 imbrandon    Riddell, see what i'm saying about the deps, if it deped on uds it wouldent be an issue at all for kubuntu
   03:53 imbrandon    Riddell, true ( and the creation of kubuntu-firefox )
   03:53 Hobbsee      imbrandon: we cant really have a kubuntu-firefox as a dep of kubuntu-desktop, for the same reason as kscreensaver-xsavers as part of k0d
   03:53 seaLne       except wouldn't you get it without having ff?
   03:53 Riddell      imbrandon: actually firefox-themes-ubuntu seemas to have multiple themes, maybe we could just put a crystal theme in there
   03:53 Hobbsee      seaLne: exactly
   03:54 kwwii_       Hobbsee: and what does that do exactly?
   03:54 imbrandon    Riddell, probbly and make it default to that on kubuntu
   03:54 Hobbsee      kwwii_: ghosts your deaded client, and lets you /nick kwwii :)
   03:54 Riddell      imbrandon: yep
   03:54 omeow        Can you make firefox/thunderbird stop using the gnome user interface convention?
   === sladen [i=paul@starsky.19inch.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   === sladen [i=paul@starsky.19inch.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:54 imbrandon    omeow, sorta
   03:55 kwwii_       Hobbsee: well, that does not seem to work either, but anyway...for another place this conversation is
   03:55 Riddell      imbrandon: could you look at doing that?
   03:55 imbrandon    Riddell, sure i would love to ;)
   03:55 nixternal    FILEPICKER_CONTRACTID
   03:55 Riddell      rocking
   03:55 Riddell      imbrandon: you have another agenda item
   03:55 Hobbsee      and then it's my entire section :P
   03:55 imbrandon    riefly ask Riddell to explain what packages Kubuntu wants tested for backporting and if there is a list/wikipage with them listed and what the current status of backports are -- imbrandon 2006-07-17 00:31:37
   03:55 imbrandon    heh
   03:55 Sho_         One of the bigger problems with FF and TB is the button order in dialog boxes
   03:55 imbrandon    s/^/B/g
   03:56 Sho_         But considering they use "KDE button order" on Windows, too, I assume there's a way to get it to use it on Linux, too
   03:56 imbrandon    Sho_, yea i know how to fix that i'll see if i can incorp it into ubuntu-firefox-themes
   03:56 Riddell      imbrandon: kaffine has been tested, dbus needs to be done, anything else you can think of too
   03:56 Sho_         imbrandon: That would be nice
   === licio [n=licio@ubuntu/member/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:57 Riddell      imbrandon: with infinity back we might even get the backports processed at some point
   03:57 Hobbsee      imbrandon: did you see what crimsun said earlier w.r.t. backports in #kubuntu-devel?
   03:57 Riddell      Hobbsee: nope
   03:57 imbrandon    Hobbsee, no
   03:57 Riddell      what did he say?
   03:58 Hobbsee      Riddell: explained the process of backporting something, pointed to the !backports link
   03:58 Hobbsee      if you want to join the team, you join it on LP
   03:58 Hobbsee      kwwii: yay :)
   03:58 imbrandon    Riddell, rockin , /me has been waiting on the kbfx backport he filed a while ago
   03:58 Riddell      Hobbsee: do you know if they're currently happening?
   03:58 imbrandon    gah you got me saing rockin now LOL
   03:59 Riddell      "they're blocked on the buildd admins having the infrastructure" guess not
   03:59 Hobbsee      Riddell: not at the moment, buildd people dont know how ot put thru the backports, or something
   03:59 Riddell      it needs soyuz support
   03:59 Hobbsee      yeah
   03:59 imbrandon    soyuz support, yea thats what crimsun said
   03:59 imbrandon    what does that mean exatly lol
   03:59 toma         soyus?
   04:00 Riddell      soyuz is the part of launchpad that manages the buildds and archives
   04:00 Hobbsee      soyuz is something strange that i dont really know about, but has something to do with launchpad.
   04:00 imbrandon    ahh
   === imbrandon will look into joining the backport team and learn all of this
   04:00 Riddell      groovy
   04:00 Riddell      so Hobbsee has some agenda items
   04:01 imbrandon    that way we have atleaste one kde guy on there ;)
   04:01 Hobbsee      Riddell: heh, yes, some.
   04:01 toma         this is not the first release we do backports for...
   04:01 Hobbsee      Who wants to deal with kvpnc? Has it fallen off the edge of the world again?  I see it's off the edgy packages list.
   04:01 gnomefreak   some?
   04:01 Hobbsee      debian and ubuntu digressed a lot, so it probably wont be a simple merge
   04:01 imbrandon    toma are there actualy any backports for breezy ?
   04:01 Hobbsee      gnomefreak: yeah, like over half of it
   04:01 allee        Hobbsee: kdelibs-bin is still on my TODO for kde-extras repo
   04:01 Hobbsee      imbrandon: sure there are
   04:01 gnomefreak   Hobbsee: i saw ;)
   04:01 toma         Hobbsee: i think someone who did kvpnc before
   04:02 Hobbsee      toma: cool, okay
   04:02 Hobbsee      allee: what about kdelibs-bin?
   04:02 Hobbsee      and which kde-extras repo?
   04:02 toma         Hobbsee: it contains patches and it is hard to guess if they are still needed
   04:02 imbrandon    kde-extras ?
   04:02 Riddell      Hobbsee: kde-extras is all the extragear stuff in debian
   04:02 Hobbsee      ah, right
   04:02 Hobbsee      allee: so kdelibs-bin needs to be removed from all that as well?  cool
   04:03 toma         Hobbsee: http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=pkg-kde-extras@lists.alioth.debian.org
   04:03 Hobbsee      all of the ubuntu repos have gotten rid of kdelibs-bin, except wlassistant, which seemed to be uploaded to the wrong distro by accident.
   04:03 Hobbsee      Riddell: Are amarok-arts packages being put in Edgy, for amarok 1.4.1?
   04:03 Hobbsee      Riddell: or are we removing amarok-arts from the archive?
   04:04 Riddell      Hobbsee: it should be removed
   04:04 Hobbsee      Riddell: ie, are we only distributing amarok-xine?
   04:04 Hobbsee      Riddell: and therefore what do we do with the gstreamer reports?
   04:04 Riddell      Hobbsee: which gstreamer reports?
   04:04 Riddell      Hobbsee: fabo is the man for kvpnc, we should poke him and see what the status is
   04:04 Hobbsee      Riddell: lots of bug reports about gstreamer in amarok on launchpad
   04:05 Hobbsee      Riddell: ah right, fabo is for that as well.
   04:05 Riddell      Hobbsee: gstreamer isn't the supported backend so tough on them, it doesn't even exist in edgy
   04:05 allee        Riddell, Hobbsee fabo is away until next week AFAIR
   04:05 Riddell      oh yes, fabo's away
   04:05 Hobbsee      Riddell: hehe, right, so someone can go do lots of bug closing :)
   === FunnyLookinHat [n=funnyloo@167.246.8.60] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:05 allee        but we can add changes nevertheless ;)
   04:05 Hobbsee      Who's writing the UVF exception report for kopete? Where's the changelog again?  i'm assuming that's my job, unless Riddell's doing it?
   === Sho_ notes that Konversation won't make the UVF either
   04:06 Sho_         Or hasn't made it, actually
   04:07 Hobbsee      Sidenote: Anyone who wants to cheer for me for MOTU, on Tuesday's Tech Board meeting is welcome; it's at 2000UTC.
   04:07 Riddell      Hobbsee: I'll write it, poke me after the meeting so I don't forget
   04:07 nixternal    haha
   04:07 Hobbsee      Sho_: is konversation in main?  guess it is.
   04:07 Hobbsee      Riddell: okay, cool, will do
   04:07 imbrandon    Hobbsee, yea its in main
   04:07 Sho_         Hobbsee: It's in the default installation selection, FWIW
   04:07 Riddell      Sho_: any estimated release date?
   04:07 Sho_         Riddell: Not before the end of August, I'd say
   04:08 Sho_         Riddell: But it's a less painful migration than 0.18->0.19. While there will be a lot of feature work and many bugfixes, the preferences file format hasn't changed, unlike in 0.19 where extensive conversation scripts needed to run.
   04:08 Sho_         Riddell: I.e. it should be fairly smooth all around.
   04:08 Sho_         s/conversation/conversion/
   === vincent_ [n=vincent@85.69.101.147] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:09 Riddell      Sho_: I don't think it'll be a problem, so long as the release is stable
   04:09 Hobbsee      #
   04:09 Hobbsee      Gamin fixes from [WWW]  https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuEdgyPackageUpdates - any packagers interested in doing these? I think we can start doing these after the Knot 1 freeze. I'm happy to sponsor people's uploads of this after the TB meeting.
   04:09 Hobbsee      #
   04:09 Hobbsee      ouch, dodgy paste.
   04:09 Hobbsee      as the next item
   04:09 Hobbsee      nixternal: i think might want to do some of these
   04:09 Riddell      note that gamin stuff is dependant on not using gamin actually working
   04:09 imbrandon    yea and i'll grab a few as time permits
   04:09 Sho_         Riddell: The development version is more stable than 0.19 at this point, but there's major feature work still pending. We'll do a stabilization period with string freeze in any case, of course.
   === j_ack [n=nico@p508D86A1.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:10 Hobbsee      Riddell: heh, so that's not final yet?
   04:10 nixternal    I'm gam(e)in
   04:10 Riddell      nixternal: that would be cool, it's entirely trivial just rebuild with build1 or ubuntu2 version numbers
   04:11 nixternal    unless of course it is a new upstream
   04:11 Riddell      Hobbsee: not definately final, but I the expectation is we're getting rid of gamin
   04:11 Hobbsee      Riddell: right, can you give me confirrmation if/when that actually happens, and i'll poke people to do the fixes?
   04:11 Sho_         Riddell: Let me but it this way, what's the threshold date after which it becomes really inconvenient for Kubuntu to put it in? ;)
   04:12 Hobbsee      Sho_: universe freeze?  we'd like to get testers using it as much as possible
   04:12 Riddell      Hobbsee, nixternal  we might have lots of autoconf 2.60 trouble with the rebuilds
   04:12 Hobbsee      Riddell: yeah, kpowersave is bitten with that.
   04:12 Riddell      Sho_: September 7th  feature freeze
   04:12 Hobbsee      Riddell: make sure you dont take your patch down off kubuntu.org w.r.t autoconf :P
   04:12 Sho_         Riddell: ok
   04:12 toma         Riddell: autoconf 2.6 in edgy?
   04:12 Riddell      Hobbsee: it's staying there for a long time
   04:13 Hobbsee      Riddell: good :)
   04:13 Riddell      toma: yes, breaks lots of KDE stuff with admin/ directories that don't detect it
   04:13 toma         Riddell: there is a simple patch for that, but i guess you know that
   04:13 nixternal    oh fun
   04:13 Riddell      toma: yep
   04:13 Hobbsee      #
   04:13 Hobbsee      Can we get the views in konqueror reverted? (ie, be able to click on the button, and detailed list/icons/pictures view is shown, as is standard in KDE? What other changes might make sense to revert?
   04:14 Hobbsee      sorry - i dont have a screenshot of what it's like in kde
   04:14 Kamion       imbrandon: my loose plan for backports is to just port the freaking script over from the old archive infrastructure myself
   === tristanmike [n=tristanm@blk-224-253-165.eastlink.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:15 Kamion       Riddell: the backports blocker at present is not infinity, it's on the archive side
   04:15 Sho_         Riddell: Regarding the Konqueror menus, one problem I've experienced frequently during end-user support in #kde is that the "Safe View Changes Per Folder" toggle acction seems to be missing from Dapper's Konqueror entirely
   04:15 imbrandon    Kamion, cool , as i said i would like to look into joining the backport team too to look more into the k* stuff but i'll tend to that after the meeting
   04:15 Hobbsee      but in standard kde, the view, view mode, options are part of the same toolbar as back, forward, etc.  what was the kubuntu rationale for changing this in the first place, and do we still want it that way?
   04:16 Riddell      Hobbsee: rationale is to not have lots of buttons in konqueror
   04:16 Riddell      Hobbsee: also it's quite badly implemented, should be a dropdown list not three dropdown buttons
   04:16 Hobbsee      Riddell: i'd think that those buttons were fairly obvious, and very useful.  dropdown would be more effective, maybe.
   04:17 imbrandon    toolbar buttons bad, dropdown good
   04:17 imbrandon    if its not in the top 2% of actions it shouldent be a tollbar button
   04:17 Riddell      there's not really any space on the kubuntu konqueror layout to add them
   04:17 imbrandon    tool*
   04:17 Hobbsee      toolbar buttons are better than no option at all.
   04:17 Hobbsee      yeah, okay, maybe
   04:17 Riddell      Hobbsee: the option is there, in the View menu, but I agree it's not very convenient
   === Hobbsee will have to look to see what kde did with it. but that's on dapper
   === Hobbsee tends to swap options a lot.
   04:18 Riddell      Sho_: is that a menu item?
   04:18 Hobbsee      Riddell: it's not, but lets discuss it anyway.
   04:18 Sho_         Riddell: In KDE's Konq it's in the "Settings" menu, yup
   04:18 Hobbsee      oh, oops
   === Hobbsee misread menu as meeting
   04:19 Riddell      Sho_: hmm, sounds like more suited to a configuration dialogue option
   04:19 Riddell      it's not something you change lots
   04:19 Sho_         Riddell: Actually it's two items, "Save View Changes Per Folder" and "Remove Folder Properties". The former is a toggle action that makes Konqueror heed .directory files which contain saved instructions on how to display that folder, and the latter removes such a file if it is clicked.
   04:20 Sho_         Riddell: I've had a number of Dapper users in #kde that couldn't get their view mode to stick, and when I asked them to deactivate "Save View Changes Per Folder" they couldn't
   04:20 Sho_         Riddell: On Windows, it's an Explorer config dialog options
   04:21 kwwii        sorry to interrupt, but http://bootsplash.org/crystal_webicons.tar.bz2 are the crystal equivalents of the icons used on that page from earlier
   === [Nirvana] [n=marco@CPE0080c8292db5-CM000f9f5158ce.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:21 Riddell      kwwii: thanks
   04:22 Riddell      Sho_: I'm not convinced that adding it back is worth messing up the Settings menu even more
   04:23 Sho_         Riddell: I agree it shouldn't be in the menus either, but being unable to access it is a substantial problem. Perhaps the Kubuntu Konq should at least default to "Save Per Folder = off", so that changing the view mode in one folder changes it everywhere.
   04:24 Riddell      Sho_: sure, we could do that
   04:24 Sho_         Riddell: The underlying problem is that users manage to get into a state where they switch the view mode, than navigate to another folder and get a different view mode, and find no way to change the view mode consistently, which drives them up walls
   04:24 Riddell      Tonio_: could you look at that?
   04:24 Riddell      Hobbsee: having a todo list on the wiki sounds good
   04:25 Tonio_       Riddell: let me read.... I'm lock on a crashed sql server....
   04:25 Sho_         Riddell: This is partly made worse by KDE 3.5.2 in which the media:/ kparts are buggy wrt/ applying the right view mode, which was fixed in 3.5.3
   04:25 Hobbsee      imbrandon: voyager's working now, right?
   04:26 Tonio_       Sho_: can you describe a bit more plz ?
   04:26 Tonio_       I don't understand the point where users don't find how to change the view mode....
   04:26 Tonio_       it is not that hard to find is it ?
   04:27 Sho_         Tonio_: The problem is that Konqueror is capable of storing the view mode either as a global default or a per-folder setting, and the menu item to toggle between the two behaviors is unavailable in Kubuntu
   === omeow [n=omega@co63471-a.olden1.ov.home.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:27 Tonio_       Sho_: hum, true
   04:27 kwwii        such behavior is typical in win and osx as well
   04:27 Sho_         Tonio_: So as long as that menu item is unavailable, it is my opinion that the Kubuntu Konq should do its best to always use the consistent, global default, because the user cannot switch off per-folder settings
   04:28 Sho_         As for the KDE 3.5.2 media:/ view mode bug fixed in 3.5.3: http://bugs.kde.org/108542
   04:28 Tonio_       Sho_: currently, if you change the view mode, the setting is stored for all folders
   04:28 Tonio_       am I wrong on that point ?*
   04:29 imbrandon    Hobbsee, yea voyager is up, its what i'm typing from
   04:29 Hobbsee      imbrandon: okay, i might get some stuff to build on it, maybe.
   04:30 Sho_         Tonio_: I don't know, I've never used a Kubuntu Konq with default settings. But I do quite a bit of end-user support in #kde, and I've helped about half a dozen Dapper users which had the problem of the view mode switching all the time. Either by explaining to them how to delete the Kubuntu rc files to get the menu item, or by modifying the config file.
   04:30 Sho_         Tonio_: But I can't tell you how they manage to get into that state
   04:30 Tonio_       Sho_: launch konq, change the view mode and save your profile, the setting will be stored for every folder
   04:31 Tonio_       the only thing is that the setting is not stored automatically, they just have to save their profile, which is a consitent and logic way to do, in my view
   04:31 Sho_         Tonio_: That's what I advised as first and what usually didn't work out
   04:31 Tonio_       maybe that should be documented
   04:32 Tonio_       Sho_: strange.... I'l have a look, but I'm testing here and it works...
   04:32 kwwii        sounds like a bug to me
   === phlaegel [n=phlaegel@atdot.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:32 Tonio_       Sho_: it works except with certain protocols, like media:/
   04:32 Sho_         Tonio_: Yeah, I guess there needs to be more research done on how exactly the problem comes about ...
   04:32 Tonio_       it has been corrected in 3.5.3
   04:33 Riddell      Hobbsee: any more agenda items?
   04:33 Tonio_       but don't forget dapper is 3.5.2 based ;)
   04:33 Tonio_       most users don't have 3.5.3
   04:33 Hobbsee      Riddell: well, you can see what the next one was, you dont have to discuss it.
   04:33 Sho_         Tonio_: Yes ... considering I just sent you the link to that bug: I know ;)
   04:33 Riddell      Hobbsee: todo list, cool
   04:33 Hobbsee      i didnt think of anything else mindshattering during work.  only about going for core-dev
   04:33 Riddell      Hobbsee: you organising, yay!
   04:34 Hobbsee      Riddell: hehe - tha'ts really okay, and not stepping on your toes?
   04:34 Riddell      step all you want
   04:34 imbrandon    ;P
   04:34 Hobbsee      oh dear.  Riddell's toes got broken.
   04:34 Tonio_       Sho_: if you see some of those people can you send them to me ?
   04:34 Hobbsee      anyone else got problems with me organising things?
   === Hawkwind [n=SoS@cpe-24-167-43-76.houston.res.rr.com] has joined #Ubuntu-Meeting
   04:34 Tonio_       I'd like to see what are the problems first to think about a solution ;)
   04:34 Sho_         Tonio_: ok
   04:34 imbrandon    Hobbsee, keeps me orginised ;)
   04:34 gnomefreak   Hobbsee: go for it
   04:35 imbrandon    heh
   04:35 kwwii        as long as you do whatever I say, no problem here
   04:35 Tonio_       Sho_: tonio@ubuntu.com if they want to mail me
   04:35 Hobbsee      kwwii: hehe!
   04:35 Sho_         Tonio_: noted
   04:35 Hobbsee      okay, if people have stuff to add to kopete, can they please send debdiffs, etc, to me?
   04:35 Hobbsee      seeing as 4 people working on the same thing is damned stupid!
   04:35 imbrandon    lol
   04:35 toma         Hobbsee: organising is great, but it would be great if the agenda was not filled in the two hours before a meeting
   04:36 imbrandon    toma +1
   04:36 seaLne       maybe an excuse for using bzr for packages?
   04:36 Hobbsee      toma: yeah, sorry about that. i had a "argh i want to get all this stuff fixed so i'm just going to write and write and write"
   04:36 Hobbsee      seaLne: i dont know how to use bzr, but yeah
   === andyp [n=andydpar@83.104.143.93] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:36 Hobbsee      toma: mostly i'd stick it on the to-do list, and update it that way
   04:36 Riddell      date and time of next meeting?
   04:36 nixternal    Hobbsee: bzr is easy to use ;)
   04:37 allee        toma: at university doing work 2 hour before the deadline is what we call early :)
   04:37 Hobbsee      Riddell: this time is great!  i'm actually awake :D
   === GreyStar [n=SoS@linuxfordummies/Hawkwind] has joined #Ubuntu-Meeting
   04:37 toma         allee: hehe. should we discuss allioth btw?
   04:37 seaLne       but maybe not a holiday monday :)
   04:37 Riddell      it's a holiday?
   04:37 allee        toma: for Hobbsee ?
   04:37 toma         allee: for *
   04:37 seaLne       glasgow trades weekend also in france afaik
   04:38 Hobbsee      say what?
   04:38 allee        toma: your turn.  I'm horrible short of time
   === Hobbsee knows close to nothing about alioth.
   04:38 allee        Hobbsee: know svn?
   04:38 toma         allee: /me too. next meeting
   04:38 Hobbsee      allee: only vaguely.  tell me in #kubuntu-devel if you want
   04:38 allee        Hobbsee: 'k
   04:38 Hobbsee      allee: or via email, whatever you like
   04:38 Riddell      ohw about Monday 31st for next meeting
   04:38 Riddell      we could swap betwene having them at 21:00 and 13:00
   04:39 toma         this timeslot is not working for me, btw.
   === simira [n=simira@tellus.err.no] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:39 Riddell      is 13:00 troublesome for others too?
   04:39 Riddell      presumably various europeans are using up their lunch breaks
   04:39 toma         how about 15utc?
   === Hawkwind [n=SoS@linuxfordummies/Hawkwind] has joined #Ubuntu-Meeting
   04:39 imbrandon    15 would be nicer
   04:40 allee        Riddell: far fro ideal.  I can never be sure to be able to participate, or get interrupted
   04:40 imbrandon    but no real objection
   === Hobbsee cant do 15UTC, but whatever others think.
   04:40 Hobbsee      1am start time, 3am possible bed.  hmmm.
   04:40 Hobbsee      1400UTC doable?
   04:40 toma         how about a shift to the weekend?
   04:41 seaLne       weekends would be bad imho
   04:41 Hobbsee      if its' a problem, then go back to 2100 UTC - i just wont be able to make the meetings.
   04:41 Riddell      weekends are risky, less pradictable to know if you're free
   04:41 toma         Hobbsee: that is unaccepotable
   04:41 imbrandon    what bout 2200 or 2300 ?
   04:41 Hobbsee      imbrandon: that just makes it worse, from my end.
   04:41 toma         23 utc?
   04:41 seaLne       that would be the same problem but for europeans
   04:41 Hobbsee      imbrandon: i'm at uni during those times.
   04:42 imbrandon    hrm
   === Hobbsee has a simple solution.
   04:42 seaLne       move to europe?
   04:42 Hobbsee      someone give me a job offer that includes moving to europe.
   04:42 imbrandon    ok lets do this , every kcc member ( the council ) name a time when its good and we'll see who has what in common
   04:43 imbrandon    Hobbsee, seaLne toma Riddell allee ?
   04:43 Riddell      right, I'll contact everyone on the council and get good times off them and see if there's any overlap
   === Hobbsee is working it out
   === Hobbsee can do anything (usually, pending work) in the last 5-6 hours.
   04:44 Riddell      we'll do that out of the meeting, I need my lunch now
   04:44 Riddell      any other business?
   04:44 Hobbsee      nope, dont think so.
   04:44 Riddell      thanks everyone
 
</pre>
