{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the first 2012 meeting of the <nowiki>[[WisconsinTeam|Wisconsin Team]]</nowiki>, starting at 20:00 CDT, 20110920 (2400 UTC, 20110927) and finishing at 21:00 CDT (0100 UTC, 20111027)

== Attendance ==

<nowiki>[[AnthonyHook|h00k]]</nowiki>, r0n0c, yotux, spikeb, mikeputnam, <nowiki>[[Cheesehead]]</nowiki>

== Agenda ==

* Who are you?<<BR>>
* Why Ubuntu, at least one reason?<<BR>>
* What do you want to LoCo to do for you?<<BR>>

== Minutes ==

* <nowiki>[[#MeetGreet|Who are you?]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 No actions<<BR>>

* <nowiki>[[#WhyUbuntu|Why Ubuntu?]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 No actions<<BR>>

* <nowiki>[[#InterestSurvey|What do you want to LoCo to do?]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 Action - h00k to send call-for-hangout-ideas to the mailing list.<<BR>>

== IRC LOG ==

<pre>
[20:00]  <r0n0c> made it!
[20:01]  <h00k> r0n0c: cool, welcome
[20:01]  <h00k> jrolland-ubuntu, KBme, mikeputnam, ripps, uberushaximus: ping for meeting start
[20:02]  * yotux (~androirc@166.182.80.223) has joined #ubuntu-us-wi
[20:03]  <yotux> Hello to all
[20:03]  <h00k> Hey yotux
[20:03]  <yotux> Sorry hand some difficulties with irc on Android
[20:04]  <h00k> yotux: it's okay, I just reset my modem not too long ago.
[20:04]  <h00k> cool, so we have three!
[20:04]  <h00k> Anyone else?
[20:04]  <r0n0c> anyone ping in #wilug?
[20:05]  <h00k> I didn't ping over there
[20:06]  <h00k> and I just left a message
[20:06]  <h00k> So. I suppose...we can rehash some stuffs.
</pre>

TOPIC: Who are you?

<pre>
[20:07]  <h00k> Let's start off with who we are. But I'm pretty sure you're familiar
[20:07]  <h00k> I'm Anthony, the LoCo team contact.
[20:08]  <h00k> I like long walks on the beach and Gangnam Style.
[20:09]  * AndroUser2 (~androirc@166.181.66.194) has joined #ubuntu-us-wi
[20:09]  <r0n0c> I'm Conor, I spend my days working in an IT office with less linux than I prefer.
[20:09]  * yotux has quit (Ping timeout: 246 seconds)
[20:10]  <h00k> r0n0c: I am...yeah. me too.
[20:10]  <h00k> Hello AndroUser2
[20:10]  <AndroUser2> How do I can change my Nick back to yotux?
[20:10]  <h00k> AndroUser2: /nick youtux
[20:10]  * AndroUser2 is now known as yotux
[20:11]  <h00k> yotux: there we go.
[20:11]  <h00k> r0n0c: I share similar sentiments
[20:11]  <yotux> Thanks guys tower switch from 4G kicked me off server
[20:12]  * r0n0c hopes yotux didn't fall far from the tower
[20:12]  <r0n0c> perhaps the message in #wilug was a bad idea, hah
[20:12]  * ubuntuWi-Guest (ae7c19be@gateway/web/freenode/ip.174.124.25.190) has joined #ubuntu-us-wi
[20:12]  <h00k> yotux: no prob, thanks for joining, even if you're having issues
[20:13]  * ubuntuWi-Guest is now known as spikeb
[20:13]  <h00k> hey spikeb
[20:13]  <spikeb> hey
[20:13]  <h00k> spikeb: we're just doing introductions
[20:14]  <yotux> So is there a general topic tonight?
[20:14]  <yotux> Yotux says nm figure it out
[20:15]  <yotux> I am a factory worker stuck with windows servers running Oracle
[20:16]  <yotux> And that wonderful thing called outlook mail
[20:16]  <spikeb> oh fun
[20:16]  <h00k> yotux: ah, yes. that.
[20:16]  <h00k> spikeb: you want to introduce yourself?
[20:17]  <h00k> we're just doing general 'who we are's
[20:17]  <spikeb> I'm spike. I've run ubuntu since the first beta, on more than one architecture, and am a geek in general. i also have a raspberry pi.
[20:17]  <spikeb> :)
[20:18]  <h00k> sweet action. I will get one some day.
[20:18]  <r0n0c> Mine is sitting next to me running mysql
[20:18]  <spikeb> mine is setting under the TV running XBMC
[20:19]  <r0n0c> what are your videos encoded as?
[20:20]  <spikeb> the SD stuff is all kinds of formats, and the pi handles them fine. the HD stuff is h.264 to take advantage of the hw accel
[20:20]  <h00k> What do those take for power?
[20:21]  <r0n0c> microUSB
[20:21]  <h00k> ah, sweet.
</pre>

TOPIC: Why Ubuntu?

<pre>
[20:21]  <h00k> So, next on the list is...Why do you guys use Ubuntu?
[20:22]  <yotux> Are you taking about a micro computer like pogoplug
[20:22]  <h00k> What brings you to the platform, and the LoCo?
[20:22]  <h00k> yotux: yeah, similar
[20:22]  <spikeb> yes yotux
[20:22]  <r0n0c> yotux: http://www.raspberrypi.org/
[20:23]  <yotux> Thanks yeah stuck on the mobile version
[20:23]  <spikeb> i originally started running ubuntu because it had a newer GNOME than debian
[20:23]  <r0n0c> I use ubuntu since it was advertised as a good linux to start with, and then I really got into it when I found MythTV and mythbuntu.
[20:24]  <spikeb> i've kept running it first because it was a good distro, and now because i love the work the design team has done, and i love unity.
[20:24]  <h00k> spikeb: back at which version?
[20:24]  <spikeb> h00k: 4.10 beta
[20:24]  <h00k> spikeb: ah, what Gnome, I meant?
[20:24]  <spikeb> oh
[20:24]  <yotux> I moved over because I wanted something more stable than fedora
[20:24]  <spikeb> i think it had 2.x when debian was stuck on 1.4
[20:25]  <h00k> yotux: ah, you moved from Fedora over, cool.
[20:25]  <h00k> I very vaguely remember when gnome 1.x was around :(
[20:26]  <spikeb> when i started using linux, gnome wasn't even beta yet
[20:26]  <spikeb> haha
[20:26]  <yotux> I have learned to like apt a little more than yum
[20:27]  <yotux> My Linux was red Hat 7
[20:27]  <spikeb> i play with fedora off and on, yum is OK
[20:27]  <yotux> Bought it from local staples store
[20:27]  <mikeputnam> h00k: actually both of them are employees of Red Hat
[20:27]  <mikeputnam> so naturally they root for that team
[20:27]  <h00k> mikeputnam: oh, interesting
[20:28]  <h00k> ;) of course
[20:28]  <mikeputnam> dmlloyd is jboss engineer and bress a security guy
[20:28]  <h00k> (we're discussing a separate convo in #wilug, if anyone is wondering)
[20:28]  <h00k> apologies for any confusion
[20:29]  <h00k> I moved over to Ubuntu from Windows back...a while ago
[20:29]  <h00k> I think around 5.something
[20:29]  <h00k> And I loved the ease of use, beginner-friendly-ness
[20:31]  <h00k> and it just stuck. Although I play with other distros on other hardware from time to time, which is always fun.
[20:31]  <spikeb> sure is!
[20:32]  <h00k> Cool.
[20:32]  <h00k> Last that I had on the official list (lol) is
</pre>

TOPIC: What do you want to LoCo to do?

<pre>
[20:32]  <h00k> What do you want the LoCo to do for you?
[20:32]  <h00k> What kinds of things can you see the LoCo doing?
[20:32]  <h00k> (that's all...the same question(
[20:33]  <r0n0c> Fix my computer.
[20:34]  <h00k> r0n0c: makes sense. Which reminds me, you should shoot an email to the mailing list for a bit wider distribution to see if someone can help
[20:35]  <r0n0c> I am not too concerned anymore
[20:35]  <mikeputnam> share cool discoveries/tips/tricks
[20:35]  <r0n0c> I got my db backups off
[20:35]  <mikeputnam> re: what i want from linuxers
[20:36]  <h00k> mikeputnam: makes sense
[20:36]  <h00k> maybe we could do a show-and-tell or online...presentation dealio sometime
[20:36]  <spikeb> hey do we have a google+ or facebook group that we can share stuff to?
[20:36]  <mikeputnam> s/linuxers/unixers/   to be honest
[20:37]  <h00k> spikeb: there was a Facebook group, I don't remember if it still exists
[20:37]  <h00k> but there's a page!
[20:37]  <h00k> https://plus.google.com/u/0/114072330989476423938/posts
[20:37]  <mikeputnam> i <3 irc/email for puritan freeness
[20:37]  <h00k> also, the mailing list
[20:37]  <mikeputnam> (but also use twitter/google+/gmail)  :P
[20:38]  <h00k> It'd be nice if we had a sweet logo
[20:38]  <h00k> we were trying for a call for artwork before, that fell through
[20:39]  <r0n0c> mikeputnam: just circled ya
[20:41]  * ubuntuWi-Guest (44f8ee35@gateway/web/freenode/ip.68.248.238.53) has joined #ubuntu-us-wi
[20:41]  <h00k> So, what do you think about an online presentation on some medium (IRC, or a Hangout)?
[20:42]  <h00k> Hi, ubuntuWi-Guest
[20:42]  <spikeb> that sounds fun
[20:42]  <ubuntuWi-Guest> Hi, h00k. Cheesehead here, via pseudonym.
[20:42]  <h00k> ubuntuWi-Guest: ah, welcome welcome.
[20:42]  <h00k> ubuntuWi-Guest: we're discussing what we'd like to do in the future
[20:44]  <ubuntuWi-Guest> Do in person or remotely?
[20:44]  <r0n0c> I would be down for a Hangout. Do those do screen sharing? to show tips/tricks mike was talking about?
[20:44]  <h00k> ubuntuWi-Guest: yeah. either/or
[20:45]  <h00k> r0n0c: I believe they do
[20:45]  <h00k> maybe
[20:45]  <h00k> I thought?
[20:45]  <spikeb> im not sure
[20:45]  <ubuntuWi-Guest> Seems like an [action] item to find out.
[20:46]  <h00k> ubuntuWi-Guest: yep.
[20:47]  <h00k> testung now
[20:48]  <h00k> success!
[20:49]  <h00k> Yes, you can definitely screenshare, and it works *quite* nicely
[20:49]  <ubuntuWi-Guest> So is that the first hangoud session? To show us how to screenshare?
[20:49]  <spikeb> sweet
[20:49]  <h00k> and we could get people circle'd and do a live broadcast/youtube recording for archiving, later viewing
[20:49]  <h00k> ubuntuWi-Guest: there's a button on the hangout, 'Screenshare,' yep
[20:50]  <ubuntuWi-Guest> I never said it would be a *long* hangout.
[20:50]  <h00k> So, that's totally something to consider
[20:50]  <mikeputnam> r0n0c: i put you into my NEWLUG and WILUG circles   (not certain if that is accurate)
[20:51]  <h00k> Well, we got one idea out.
[20:51]  <r0n0c> I put you in MadLug and Computer Geeks. Hope that is accurate
[20:52]  <mikeputnam> heh
[20:52]  <mikeputnam> pretty close
[20:52]  <mikeputnam> Appleton, WI Computer Geek
[20:52]  <h00k> something like that. I've been meaning to make a proper 'Ubuntu Wisconsin' circle and share it
[20:52]  <r0n0c> I know you aren't in MADLug, but its basically expanded to anyone in wilug/wi ubuntu
[20:52]  <mikeputnam> gothca
[20:52]  <h00k> but I have 'Ubuntu People' and madlug/wilug/etc
[20:53]  <r0n0c> I wish g+ did nested circles
[20:53]  <r0n0c> I wanted that from the get go
[20:53]  <r0n0c> Immediate Family > Family
[20:53]  * ubuntuWi-Guest is now known as Cheesehead
[20:53]  <h00k> yeah...
[20:55]  <h00k> Okay. So. Perhaps a call for presentation volunteers on the mailing list
[20:55]  <h00k> [action]
[20:56]  <Cheesehead> I supose I can dust off my dbus and gsettings notes and whip them into some pretext for an hangout or two...
[20:57]  <h00k> heyoh, cool.
[20:57]  <h00k> I can do twofactor authentication with ssh walkthrough
[20:57]  <r0n0c> oooo
[20:58]  <h00k> or did someone recently do that with wilug/madlug?
[20:59]  <Cheesehead> I also have some notes on the Gnome/Unity geolocation framework (fairly cool), and on several weather information systems.
[21:00]  <h00k> Hey folks...I have to get running
[21:00]  <mikeputnam> what about tools/tips/approaches to administering hundreds of ubuntu desktops in a company
[21:00]  <h00k> mikeputnam: like puppet and/or landscape
[21:01]  <mikeputnam> or whipping racks full of ubuntu into submission
[21:01]  <h00k> but I don't know if we have anyone with landscape
[21:01]  <h00k> that'd be cool
[21:01]  <mikeputnam> h00k: certainly
[21:01]  <Cheesehead> I must go; I'll take care of the website minutes and wiki meeting report tomorrow...
[21:01]  <mikeputnam> like Active Directory integration
[21:01]  <h00k> Cheesehead: ah, cool, that'd be nice
[21:01]  * Cheesehead has quit (Quit: Page closed)
[21:01]  <mikeputnam> or SAMBA setups to play nice with the Winders folks
[21:02]  <h00k> keep those ideas handy
[21:03]  <h00k> I'll write up a call for ideas and presentations probably tomorrow or this weekend and ship them out
[21:03]  <h00k> but I have to run
[21:03]  <h00k> you guys can keep talking and stuffs
[21:03]  <h00k> if you come up with anything, leave a line in here or shoot it to the mailing list
[21:03]  <mikeputnam> or virtualization approaches so the WinAdmins can run there stuffs atop your Unices!
[21:03]  <h00k> ^ yuss
[21:03]  <h00k> OKay, thanks all for coming!
[21:03]  <h00k> talk soon
[21:04]  <mikeputnam> thx for organizing
</pre>

----
CategoryWisconsinTeam
