{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 16 Sep at 16:09 &mdash; 16:27 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-09-16-16.09.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:09.

==== Utopic Development ====
The discussion about "Utopic Development" started at 16:09.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:10)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' http://lists.alioth.debian.org/pipermail/pkg-mysql-maint/2014-September/007040.html 
** ''ACTION:'' rbasak to review mysql-5.6 transition plans with ABI breaks with infinity
* '''Blueprints''' (16:17)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html 
** ''ACTION:'' all to review blueprint work items before next weeks meeting

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:20.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:20.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:23.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:23.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:24.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:26.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:26.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* rbasak
** rbasak to review mysql-5.6 transition plans with ABI breaks with infinity

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jamespage (66)
* rbasak (14)
* gaughen (8)
* meetingology (5)
* smb (4)
* caribou (2)
* zul (1)
* beisner (1)

=== Full Log ===
<pre>

 16:09 <jamespage> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:09 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep 16 16:09:16 2014 UTC.  The chair is jamespage. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:09 <meetingology> 

 16:09 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:09 <gaughen> we should put him on the list extra

 16:09 <jamespage> whoops

 16:09 <jamespage> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:09 <beisner> ohp i was about to do that jamespage

 16:09 <jamespage> none

 16:09 <jamespage> #topic Utopic Development

 16:09 <jamespage> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule

 16:09 <jamespage> OK _ so...

 16:10 <gaughen> next big date is final freeze, I tihnk

 16:10 <gaughen> think

 16:10 <jamespage> Final beta is next week

 16:10 <gaughen> 10/16

 16:10 <jamespage> so we need things to be awesome by then

 16:10 <jamespage> zul and coreycb and I have been having openstack fun - lots of new deps (see ubuntu-release@l.u.c

 16:10 <jamespage> )

 16:10 <jamespage> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:11 <jamespage> lets gaze at the bugs like normal

 16:11 <gaughen> hopefully bcache and percona* can be landed by then

 16:11 <jamespage> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:12 <jamespage> looks at the bugs seems like we still need todo a trove upload

 16:12 <jamespage> and we have some docker things to fix - I have docker1.2 in a PPA btw

 16:12 <gaughen> jamespage, good to know

 16:12 <jamespage> also myqsl-5.6 is bust on ARM64 now

 16:12 <jamespage> has been for a bit - rbasak did you have a fix for that in your upload?

 16:12 <rbasak> No, I'd been fixing on the 5.5->5.6 move.

 16:12 <rbasak> focusing

 16:12 <jamespage> we might want to fasttrack something infront of any potential transition (which I think is unlikely)

 16:13 <jamespage> rbasak, might be worth talking about that now?

 16:13 <jamespage> rbasak, hows that transition looking?

 16:13 <rbasak> Oracle are suggesting ignoring the ABI break as the best possible option.

 16:13 <rbasak> http://lists.alioth.debian.org/pipermail/pkg-mysql-maint/2014-September/007040.html

 16:14 <rbasak> So I think we might be able to get it in, but it is very late in the cycle now.

 16:14 <rbasak> I want to see what infinity thinks about this now.

 16:14 <jamespage> rbasak, I think that is a good call

 16:14 <rbasak> I'm not sure I made a call? :)

 16:15 <jamespage> I want to see what infinity thinks about this now.

 16:15 <jamespage> quote

 16:15 <jamespage> rbasak,

 16:15 <rbasak> Oh, OK :)

 16:15 <rbasak> It feels very either-way to me right now.

 16:15 <jamespage> #action rbasak to review mysql-5.6 transition plans with ABI breaks with infinity

 16:15 * meetingology rbasak to review mysql-5.6 transition plans with ABI breaks with infinity

 16:15 <rbasak> I don't think we can expect one or the other right now.

 16:15 <jamespage> yeah - an action!

 16:15 <jamespage> w00t!

 16:15 <jamespage> ok - lets see - I'd prefer to get it right early next cycle rather then foobar it right now

 16:16 <rbasak> That's my feeling, too. I can carry on with it - just in a PPA.

 16:16 <jamespage> gaughen, we might want to hold off on percona entry until next cycle as well as we might not make the 5.6 baseline we wanted to

 16:16 <jamespage> I have the two linked in my head at least

 16:16 <jamespage> anyway

 16:16 <rbasak> Any implications for jessie?

 16:17 <jamespage> rbasak, depends on whether we really do need a transition or now

 16:17 <jamespage> not

 16:17 <jamespage> I won't rush it

 16:17 <jamespage> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:17 <jamespage> oh yikes - I've not reviewed mine for a bit

 16:17 <jamespage> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html

 16:17 <jamespage> omg

 16:18 <jamespage> so

 16:18 <jamespage> we probably all need to checkpoint our blueprints

 16:18 <jamespage> final beta is next week - be brutal with features now

 16:18 <jamespage> at least for distro targetted stuff

 16:19 <jamespage> #action all to review blueprint work items before next weeks meeting

 16:19 * meetingology all to review blueprint work items before next weeks meeting

 16:20 <jamespage> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:20 <jamespage> caribou is not here - so moving on

 16:20 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:22 <jamespage> psivaa_, ?

 16:22 <jamespage> hello caribou - we just got past your section - wanna do catchup?

 16:22 <caribou> jamespage: hmm got the wrong time again

 16:23 <caribou> jamespage: yeah, nothing particular, all is good from my side

 16:23 <jamespage> awesome

 16:23 <jamespage> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:23 <jamespage> ph no

 16:23 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:23 <smb> Finally found the root of the vmalloc failures of Xen PV guest, so now Utopic can bring up a dom0 again... just to realize that now HVM guests blow up into our faces because latest seabios thought it reasonable to drop xen support in the 128k bios image. Luckily we can use the 256k image instead. So I am assembling an upload for that (and possible some additional minor tweaks). Then I think I can enjoy going back t

 16:23 <smb> o libvirt and make sure a certain person did not again drop patches I still need. Also ... rbasak will there be any chance of getting my merge requests done for uvtool? :-P

 16:23 <jamespage> sorry kernel team

 16:24 <smb> jamespage, no worries :)

 16:24 <rbasak> smb: sorry, I've slipped on uvtool as I'm (still!) getting features in for other pieces for Utopic.

 16:24 <smb> apart from my venting i am done. are there questions

 16:24 <jamespage> thanks for the update smb

 16:24 <rbasak> (and uvtool has no Utopic blueprint goals)

 16:24 <jamespage> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:24 <jamespage> anything?

 16:25 <zul> paris but thats not for a while

 16:25 <gaughen> Summit in Nov

 16:26 <gaughen> and yes, the blueprints need work.

 16:26 <jamespage> #topic Open Discussion

 16:26 <jamespage> anyone else?

 16:26 <jamespage> ...

 16:26 <jamespage> ..

 16:26 <jamespage> .

 16:26 <jamespage> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:26 <jamespage> Tues 23rd at 1600 UTC

 16:26 <jamespage> see you then

 16:27 <jamespage> #endmeeting
</pre>

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
