{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: IRC team, 29 Sep at 19:59 &mdash; 20:57 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-09-29-19.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review last meetings action items ====
The discussion about "Review last meetings action items" started at 20:02.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/IRCC/20130825 is the last minutes, and I had an action
** ''LINK:'' http://paste.ubuntu.com/6172733/ 

==== Open items in the IRCC tracker ====
The discussion about "Open items in the IRCC tracker" started at 20:14.

==== Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council ====
The discussion about "Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council" started at 20:22.

==== Logging and the irclogs.ubuntu.com archive ====
The discussion about "Logging and the irclogs.ubuntu.com archive" started at 20:25.

==== Membership applications ====
The discussion about "Membership applications" started at 20:35.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phunyguy 
** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~robtongue 
** ''Vote:'' membership application for phunyguy (Denied)

==== Any Other Business ====
The discussion about "Any Other Business" started at 20:54.

=== Vote results ===

* membership application for phunyguy
** Motion denied (For/Against/Abstained 0/1/3)

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (76)
* Pici (39)
* IdleOne (33)
* phunyguy (31)
* TheLordOfTime (24)
* topyli (17)
* Pricey (13)
* meetingology (13)
* Myrtti (10)
* Fuchs (9)
* funkyHat (6)
* Flannel (3)
* Tm_T (0)

=== Full Log ===

 19:59 <AlanBell> #startmeeting IRC team

 19:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Sep 29 19:59:43 2013 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 19:59 <meetingology> 

 19:59 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 19:59 <TheLordOfTime> o/

 19:59 <phunyguy> o/

 20:00 <AlanBell> hi all, thanks for popping along, here is the agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcCouncil/MeetingAgenda

 20:00 <topyli> o/

 20:01 <IdleOne> o/

 20:01 <Pici> â™«

 20:01 <Pici> oops, silly autocomplete

 20:01 <topyli> :)

 20:02 <AlanBell> heh, ok, so lets get started

 20:02 <AlanBell> #topic Review last meetings action items

 20:02 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/IRCC/20130825 is the last minutes, and I had an action

 20:02 <AlanBell> which was to look into cloaks, and here is the results . . .

 20:03 <AlanBell> http://paste.ubuntu.com/6172733/

 20:03 <AlanBell> so that is people who are in the list of people we think we gave a cloak to, but who are not in ubuntumembers any more

 20:03 <Pici> hmm

 20:03 <AlanBell> and I tweaked the script a bit to output IRC nicks as well as launchpad names

 20:04 <AlanBell> there are 35 of them I think

 20:04 <TheLordOfTime> 36 if i'm counting right.

 20:04 <AlanBell> some may not be using the cloak now, some may have forgotten to press the renew button, some might need an unaffiliated cloak

 20:05 <AlanBell> yeah, could be 36, there were about that and I dealt with one, maybe there were 37 initially

 20:06 <Pici> There are at least one or two on there that look like they might have forgotten to renew

 20:06 <AlanBell> so, from that list does anything leap out at people as hugely wrong, or some kind of issue we should be careful with?

 20:06 <Pici> well, soren is on there, and I'm pretty sure hes still active.

 20:06 <IdleOne> soren just expired this past week

 20:07 <IdleOne> probably busy and forgot to click the button

 20:07 <Pici> uh, from the team?

 20:07 <IdleOne> yeah

 20:07 <IdleOne> this week or last. I remember seeing the email

 20:07 <Pici> I almost thought you were using the other meaning of expired there for a second.

 20:08 <Pici> Hospital work is rubbing off of me :/

 20:08 <phunyguy> he is in here, but idle.

 20:08 <AlanBell> :)

 20:08 <IdleOne> Pici: I would not have been so emotionless about it :)

 20:08 <AlanBell> that is actually one reason I am throwing the list up here for review before trying to contact them individually

 20:09 <IdleOne> AlanBell: there is no way for you to get dates of when they membersips expired?

 20:09 <IdleOne> memberships*

 20:09 <Pici> There should be, its just not being output.

 20:09 <AlanBell> hmm, no, not really (but you could)

 20:09 <AlanBell> I can't see expired memberships in ~ubuntumembers

 20:09 <Myrtti> well, you can take Andre from the list of people to be contacted...

 20:10 <IdleOne> I think anyone who has been expired for 30+ days you could just go ahead and remove from the team. they can always be re-added later if/when they ask.

 20:10 <Myrtti> n'est pas

 20:10 <AlanBell> however, I don't think it matters too much

 20:10 <Pici> Myrtti: ah. yes :(

 20:10 <AlanBell> it isn't about removing them from the team, it is removing the cloak

 20:10 <IdleOne> right

 20:10 <AlanBell> and we tend to ask if they want an unaffiliated one instead

 20:11 <Pici> Myrtti: thanks for catching that. :(

 20:11 <Myrtti> Pici: well, since you mentioned the other meaning for "expired"...

 20:12 <Pici> yea. .. :/

 20:12 <topyli> :(

 20:12 <phunyguy> :(

 20:12 <AlanBell> :( indeed

 20:12 <IdleOne> Well this escalated quickly :(

 20:13 <IdleOne> alright, so yeah, contact people and ask if they want to renew membership or change cloak

 20:13 <funkyHat> Hi people, sorry I'm late

 20:13 <AlanBell> so, we will process the list, contacting and removing cloaks as we go, and this is exactly why I wanted to wave the list about first for review

 20:13 <AlanBell> ok, moving on

 20:13 <topyli> hi funkyHat

 20:14 <AlanBell> #topic Open items in the IRCC tracker

 20:14 <IdleOne> hello funkyHat

 20:15 <AlanBell> now here we have screwed up slightly, there were a couple of very stale items in the tracker, it stopped emailing us when we did that silly thing where it was constantly raising tickets for every email that happened

 20:15 <AlanBell> I think the items that are there are no longer relevant but we need to be better at using the tracker if we are going to have it :/

 20:15 <Pici> agreed

 20:16 <Pici> We should be more dilligent about manually putting items in there too.

 20:17 <Pricey> Items? I only see one. #887544 ?

 20:17 <Pici> I think we're talking about the private tracker.

 20:17 <AlanBell> different tracker

 20:17 <Pricey> Sneaky.

 20:17 <TheLordOfTime> heh

 20:17 <topyli> Pricey: this is our secret tracker where we talk about you behind your back

 20:18 <IdleOne> under your nose

 20:18 <AlanBell> yeah, it is an appeals tracker of sorts, private because it relates to specific people and wasn't considered suitable for launchpad bug process

 20:20 <AlanBell> lvmer and itoast are the nicks concerned in the issues

 20:20 <AlanBell> lvmer wasn't actually banned

 20:20 <Pici> if you don't remember them, its because they're stale... very stale.

 20:21 <IdleOne> if they concern me in any way just go ahead and drop them.

 20:21 <AlanBell> so, we will close them, check the tracker is working correctly and move on I think

 20:21 <Pici> heh

 20:21 <IdleOne> you have my permission :)

 20:21 <phunyguy> mine too...

 20:21 <phunyguy> ;)

 20:22 <Pici> So whats up next?

 20:22 <AlanBell> #topic Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council

 20:23 <AlanBell> not got any bugs apart from the incomplete one, which is still a bit open

 20:23 <topyli> we have one bug, which might as well be closed WONTFIX. no-one has come up with great ideas

 20:23 <AlanBell> I can't close it wontfix

 20:24 <AlanBell> opinion will have to do

 20:24 <topyli> oh yes i'm confusing launchpad with bugzilla

 20:24 <Pricey> #887544 reads pretty silly to me. You can't aim to remove all bans within X days...

 20:24 <AlanBell> there is a won't fix status, but I can't use it

 20:25 <TheLordOfTime> AlanBell, bug supervisors for the community project need to set it

 20:25 <TheLordOfTime> limitation of the LP bug tracker system

 20:25 <AlanBell> Pricey: it was more that we didn't have any statistics on it, but agreed, it isn't a useful metric even if we could measure it

 20:25 <AlanBell> #topic Logging and the irclogs.ubuntu.com archive

 20:25 <AlanBell> So just to frame this discussion and set expectations a bit, someone raised an issue on the IRC discussions mailing list that they were concerned about conversations that they had in the past being available on the web and indexed by search engines.

 20:25 <AlanBell> that conversation may be viewed here https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-irc/2013-September/thread.html

 20:25 <AlanBell> We probably won't be deciding any specific actions today, but this is an opportunity to bring the conversation about IRC into the medium of IRC, and we can perhaps figure out if there are any proposals that are worth further discussion.

 20:26 <AlanBell> so, open to the floor, what do people think about this?

 20:26 <TheLordOfTime> My two-cents on the issue are that the person involved is far too concerned about their own privacy

 20:26 <Fuchs> People are informed that the channel is publically logged

 20:26 <Pici> I'm not really sure why IRC logging is a problem when the Forum archives are preserved for posterity as well.

 20:26 <AlanBell> oh, also the whole "bug comments on launchpad" bit is out of scope for us

 20:26 <Fuchs> there are lots of places both on the internet and in real life where you can't request that content is removed

 20:26 <Pricey> TheLordOfTime: That's not reasonable.

 20:26 <TheLordOfTime> I've been on IRC here for a long while, and as Fuchs pointed out, there's notices that the channel is publicly logged.

 20:26 <Fuchs> if they have an issue with that, they shouldn't be on IRC.

 20:26 <TheLordOfTime> Pricey, that's one of the points I think and you're right it is unreasonable.

 20:27 <Pici> I'm curious if the forums have their own policy about content removal.

 20:27 <Fuchs> The benefits of that  (people being able to find problems and their solutions via google and similar) are _way_ bigger than the downsides, so I'd say: keep logging as usual

 20:27 <Pricey> TheLordOfTime: No, I think you're being unreasonable to say they are "too concerned".

 20:27 <TheLordOfTime> Pricey, equally unreasonable is the expectation of removal of their own items per request from the logs, and that the logs should be private.

 20:27 <Myrtti> I can't remember if I said it already somewhere, but as long as the joins/parts/quits/nicks with hostmasks are removed, it doesn't really matter

 20:27 <TheLordOfTime> Pricey, then perhaps my wording was bad

 20:27 <Pici> Myrtti: I think you did.. somewhere.

 20:27 <Pici> I remember reading it at least ;)

 20:27 <TheLordOfTime> Pricey, regardless, it's generally unreasonable, I think, that the channel's logs should be considered a medium for cyber-stalking per their arguments.

 20:27 <Myrtti> anyone can use a random char generator to generate a nickname for themselves for each time they use IRC if they're concerned about the privacy of the logs

 20:27 <AlanBell> I think we would be prepared to edit the logs in exceptional circumstances (like someone Doxing a minor)

 20:28 <TheLordOfTime> (I can say the same about LP, but that's a discussion for elsewhere)

 20:28 <Fuchs> I am not sure about the english forums, ubuntuusers.de definitely has the  "no, we won't" policy. We've been recently asked to remove content  (change the name of someone in every single posting it was mentioned), which was simply turned down.

 20:28 <AlanBell> and yes, we don't log joins/parts

 20:28 <TheLordOfTime> AlanBell, I agree with you there, super exceptional circumstances are different.

 20:28 <Pici> As much as we hate to admit it, there isn't much we could do if someone else wanted to publish their own chat logs of the channel.

 20:29 <TheLordOfTime> Agreed, accordingly, I also believe that there's no expectation of privacy in a publicly-able-to-be-joined IRC channel.

 20:29 <TheLordOfTime> if the channel were +i, and semi-private, that'd be a different story

 20:29 <AlanBell> one of the proposals was to put a robots.txt in place to encourage search engines to not index it, what do you think about that?

 20:30 <Fuchs> against it. As I wrote, the main reason of that _is_ that they are indexed,

 20:30 <phunyguy> easily exploitable.

 20:30 <Pricey> AlanBell: I think you covered that well in your mail.

 20:30 <Pici> Fuchs: +1

 20:30 <Fuchs> so that people can find conversations, including support, to a given problem

 20:30 <TheLordOfTime> Fuchs: +1 here

 20:30 <topyli> indexing is why the logs are useful

 20:30 <Myrtti> I think it's actually an asset we publish the logs

 20:30 <Myrtti> it disincentives someone else publishing them

 20:31 <Flannel> Even if we decided to support the robots.txt, we'd need to get the support of *all* channels, including -devel, -meeting, and all the loco teams, because the logs are all together.

 20:31 <topyli> Myrtti: that's true also

 20:31 <TheLordOfTime> valid point, Flannel.

 20:31 <AlanBell> Flannel: actually no, you can do wildcards in robots.txt

 20:31 <Pricey> Does the ircc even have control over irclogs.ubuntu.com ?

 20:31 <Pici> Not directly.

 20:31 <IdleOne> How many thousands of nicks are logged and indexed without issue? I think this topic has already been given way too much attention. I respect the concerns of the individual but I don't think we need to change how things are because of one individual.

 20:31 <AlanBell> so a single channel could be excluded, it is a slightly nonstandard syntax but google supports it

 20:32 <TheLordOfTime> I'm going to agree with IdleOne's opinion 100%.  I'm not sure the arguments brought up in the ML by the individual are entirely supported by evidence...

 20:33 <AlanBell> Pricey: I expect we could arrange for a robots.txt to be put in place or any other changes under discussion if we wanted to do so

 20:33 <Flannel> AlanBell: Just because google supports it doesn't mean everyone does.  And, to that point, means that a private mirror/index wouldn't either, so I think robots.txt is an ineffective solution to begin with, someone malicious can easily circumvent it.

 20:33 <phunyguy> indeed.  Everything you want to hide, in plain text, in a single file.

 20:33 <Pricey> AlanBell: Makes me find this amusing..

 20:34 <topyli> i for one am greatly amused when i find my embarrassing mailing list and usenet contributions from the 90s when searching for stuff :)

 20:34 <Myrtti> I think it's hilarous

 20:34 <Flannel> phunyguy: Forget everything you want to hide, just wget all of #ubuntu.txt and grep yourself.  It's trivial.

 20:34 <phunyguy> indeed.

 20:34 <phunyguy> (I don't really know how the logs are set up, I just know what robots.txt is)

 20:35 <Pricey> phunyguy: irclogs.ubuntu.com

 20:35 <Pici> So, unless the CC has a different take on things, I think we're all in a agreement here

 20:35 <AlanBell> it takes a while and is rather big (yes, I have wget'd quite a lot of it in the past)

 20:35 <IdleOne> yeah, topic closed.

 20:35 <AlanBell> yup, ok, thanks very much everyone, lets move on

 20:35 <funkyHat> Yep

 20:35 <AlanBell> #topic Membership applications

 20:35 <AlanBell> we do have an application from phunyguy

 20:36 * phunyguy flexes

 20:36 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phunyguy

 20:36 <AlanBell> https://launchpad.net/~robtongue

 20:36 <AlanBell> so, tell us about yourself phunyguy

 20:36 <phunyguy> Well I had been an Ubuntu user for quute a few years, starting in 2007.

 20:37 <phunyguy> Only found IRC a couple years back, and never left.

 20:37 <phunyguy> (how in depth do I need to go?)

 20:38 <phunyguy> Married, one kid, Systems Engineer at a local grocery chain...

 20:38 <topyli> your wiki page has the story laid out pretty well

 20:38 <IdleOne> IRCC May I ask a question of phunyguy ?

 20:38 <topyli> sure

 20:38 <IdleOne> phunyguy: Why do you want to be an Ubuntu member?

 20:39 <funkyHat> For the shiny certificate, surely

 20:39 <phunyguy> IdleOne: because I feel like I am a contributor, and I really like just about everyone in here.  Would make me feel a bit more like I am part of the team.

 20:39 <phunyguy> (cheesy?)

 20:39 <Fuchs> (yes)

 20:39 <phunyguy> (sorry..)

 20:40 <IdleOne> little bit, but honest.

 20:40 <phunyguy> it's the truth though.

 20:40 <phunyguy> probably brings some more respect, also, like me being there means something.

 20:40 <phunyguy> I am trying to earn it, and this would help.

 20:41 <IdleOne> So I don't have a vote here but I am +1 for approval. I think phunyguy is an asset to the community, especially in the offtopic channel.

 20:41 <phunyguy> Also I know this doesn't go hand in hand, but I would like to start contributing as a chanop at some point, when I get a little better at catalyzing.

 20:42 <Pricey> IdleOne: Is #ubuntu-offtopic really important for Ubuntu Membership through the IRC Team?

 20:42 <AlanBell> so, looking at the wiki and launchpad page, I see some contributions to ubuntu in terms of bug comments and suchlike

 20:42 <topyli> phunyguy: you chose to apply through the ircc instead of your local loco council. do you feel your contributions are mostly related to irc work?

 20:42 <AlanBell> I would like to see some testimonials, I think that area is lacking

 20:42 <phunyguy> topyli: yes, 90%

 20:42 <IdleOne> Pricey: IMHO yes. The channel is not support oriented, but ubuntu isn't all about the tech stuff.

 20:43 <phunyguy> I do go into #ubuntu when I can, and help. Have been for a couple years now.

 20:43 <AlanBell> phunyguy: are you involved in your loco team at all?

 20:43 <phunyguy> AlanBell: no. :( All IRC so far.

 20:43 <phunyguy> I can change that...

 20:44 <Fuchs> <comment>  I think it's a shame that there aren't any testimonials, I certainly would have written one. I agree with IdleOne on the -offtopic point, and I'd support phunyguys application </comment>

 20:44 <Pici> It looks like there are at least a few people here that would be willing to provide testimonials.

 20:45 <IdleOne> Pricey: the offtopic channel needs more good people who care about the CoC and the guidelines to help maintain the community

 20:45 <topyli> i agree with the importance of -ot. my own membership is mostly due to -ot work :)

 20:47 <IdleOne> IF it is necessary I'll copy paste what I said in here onto the wiki page, but I think the fact that I stayed awake for this meeting (usually my nap time) says something

 20:48 <Pricey> (Are there even enough IRCC'ers here?)

 20:49 <funkyHat> I think so

 20:49 <Pricey> Whoops yes sorry, just spotted teh 3rd)

 20:49 <AlanBell> #voters AlanBell Pici topyli funkyHat Tm_T

 20:49 <meetingology> Current voters: AlanBell Pici Tm_T funkyHat topyli

 20:49 <AlanBell> #vote membership application for phunyguy

 20:49 <meetingology> Please vote on: membership application for phunyguy

 20:49 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:50 <Pici> +0

 20:50 <meetingology> +0 received from Pici

 20:50 <AlanBell> +0 generally positive impression, but come back with testimonials, and maybe apply to be an op

 20:50 <meetingology> +0 generally positive impression, but come back with testimonials, and maybe apply to be an op received from AlanBell

 20:50 <Pricey> Grepping my logs I'm not sure I'd call #ubuntu activity consistent.

 20:50 <Pici> I echo  what AlanBell said.  I can't really give an approval with no testimonials.

 20:50 <topyli> -1 but definitely come back

 20:50 <meetingology> -1 but definitely come back received from topyli

 20:51 <Pici> Membership isn't a prerequesite for operator-ship (-hood?, thing?)

 20:52 <phunyguy> I know.... Maybe I should do that first then.

 20:52 <funkyHat> +0 likewise, but please do come back, and I agree that you should apply to be an op.

 20:52 <meetingology> +0 likewise, but please do come back, and I agree that you should apply to be an op. received from funkyHat

 20:52 <AlanBell> #endvote

 20:52 <meetingology> Voting ended on: membership application for phunyguy

 20:52 <meetingology> Votes for:0 Votes against:1 Abstentions:3

 20:52 <meetingology> Motion denied

 20:52 <topyli> awww i'm the bad guy

 20:52 * Pici pats topyli

 20:52 <phunyguy> naah, it's all good.  Thanks for the opportunity

 20:52 <AlanBell> so not right now, phunyguy, sorry about that, but please do consider joining the operator team, you don't need to be an Ubuntu member to do that

 20:52 <AlanBell> phunyguy: https://launchpad.net/~irc-ubuntu-offtopic-ops

 20:52 <AlanBell> or one of the other channels

 20:53 <phunyguy> I will do that.

 20:53 <Pici> Many of us didn't become members until after being ops.

 20:53 <Pici> Like Myrtti and I.

 20:53 <IdleOne> same here

 20:53 <Pici> and that IdleOne character.

 20:53 <IdleOne> I was an op first

 20:53 * phunyguy has never been an op anywhere

 20:54 <IdleOne> good, you don't have bad habits from other places

 20:54 <AlanBell> :)

 20:54 <AlanBell> ok, lets move on

 20:54 <Myrtti> let me send you a questionnaire, it assesses how mental case you are

 20:54 <IdleOne> click that link.

 20:54 <IdleOne> lol

 20:54 <Pici> ;)

 20:54 <funkyHat> hehehe

 20:54 <AlanBell> #topic Any Other Business

 20:54 <Myrtti> if you are, your qualifications match

 20:54 <phunyguy> did, reading.

 20:54 <AlanBell> any other things people want to discuss at this time?

 20:55 <TheLordOfTime> one tiny thing, just a comment really

 20:55 <Pici> sure

 20:55 <TheLordOfTime> AlanBell, i'd like to give ikonia a public congrats on coordinating with the ZNC service I provide, in making sure that users who abuse the services in the Ubuntu channels are reported accordingly

 20:55 <AlanBell> \o/

 20:55 <TheLordOfTime> i know it's a tiny thing but ikonia's a very good "role model" of what a good channel op is.  :)

 20:55 <IdleOne> yay for good processes and following them

 20:56 <AlanBell> yeah, I noticed some of that coordination going on

 20:56 <Pici> yay

 20:56 <topyli> great

 20:56 <TheLordOfTime> just wanted that to be on the public records.  :)

 20:56 <AlanBell> and conversly, it is great to have someone who provides a ZNC service working well with our team too

 20:56 <TheLordOfTime> AlanBell, that's what ikonia said!  :D

 20:56 <Pici> Agreed.

 20:57 <IdleOne> kinda doesn't have a choice seeing how TheLordOfTime is an ubuntu member :P

 20:57 <AlanBell> :)

 20:57 <AlanBell> ok, any other other busines?

 20:57 <IdleOne> but we appreciate the service and the help you give us when we have issues

 20:57 <Pici> I have nothing.

 20:57 <TheLordOfTime> thanks, IdleOne :)

 20:57 <phunyguy> Thanks everyone.

 20:57 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
