{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=03&day=11&year=2013&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mar 25th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** We have a new meeting time: 16:30 UTC
** Thanks to Scott Kitterman (ScottK) who provided a debdiff for hardy for clamav (LP: #1157385). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job!
** Please book travel for the sprint if haven't already
* Actions
** jdstrand to follow-up on potentially changing time of team meeting: DONE
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: community
** short week
** performance reviews
** monthly planning
** scopes privacy
** two audits related to Ubuntu SDK and gwibber
** March work items status
*** !AppArmor unity/ubuntu abstractions
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** pushed out updates for openssl and gnome-online-accounts this morning
** ruby going out later
** hopefully will have time to try out the SDK
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** logging prototype
*** digging in to Mir codebase this week
** March work items status:
*** on track except for 2 API work items that are dependent on logging prototype being completed. These two will be pushed to April
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** bug fixing in latest DBus ppa uploads
** March work items status:
*** on track
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** April planning
*** !AppArmor work items
** March work items status:
*** mostly on track bug 'stacking, extend policy language - parser' may slip due to high reactive load this month
** sarnold
** weekly role: triage
** juju work items
** LXC MIR audit
** chrisccoulson
** short week
** weekly role: happy place
** chromium-browser:
*** some automated tests running
*** hook this into jenkins
*** now working on armhf
** new member checklist (mostly done)
** prepare mozilla updates for next week's release
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-03-25-16.32.html
