{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda/Minutes ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Natty Development
** kirkland to change this topic to "Oneiric Development" in the agenda for next week (done)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
** OpenStack Summit in California
** UDS-O in Budapest
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday, May 3rd 2011 16:00 UTC 

Short and sweet.  Meeting was held the week of the 11.04 release and there wasn't a whole lot to say.

===== Meeting Actions =====

None, surprisingly.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 3rd at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[17:09] <kirkland> #startmeeting
[17:09] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:09. The chair is kirkland.
[17:09] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[17:09] <kirkland> [topic] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:09] <kirkland> I don't see any here
[17:09] <kirkland> [topic] Natty Development
[17:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty Development
[17:10] <kirkland> Daviey / robbiew: ^
[17:11] <robbiew> If there's any "Natty Development"
[17:11] <robbiew> we have a problem ;)
[17:11] <kirkland> :-)
[17:11] <kirkland> robbiew: cool;  so shift focus from Natty Development to Natty SRUs + Oneiric Blueprints?
[17:11] <robbiew> yeah
[17:11] <kirkland> robbiew: okay, I'll change that heading to Oneiric Development after the meeting
[17:11] <kirkland> [topic] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:12] <kirkland> zul is at OpenStack Summit this week, I think
[17:12] <kirkland> we'll all be in Budapest for UDS in less than 2 weeks
[17:12] <jamespage> \o/
[17:12] <kirkland> anything else worth mentioning?
[17:12] <jamespage> I'm at puppetcamp in amsterdam later this week
[17:12] <kirkland> jamespage: oh, great
[17:13] <kirkland> jamespage: will very much like to hear your trip report from that
[17:13] <jamespage> kirkland: ack
[17:13] <kirkland> jamespage: I believe lynxman will be talking to the Puppet folks about Orchestra there
[17:13] <kirkland> [topic] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:13] <kirkland> hggdh: ^ ?
[17:14] <hggdh> only that Euca is working :-)
[17:14] <hggdh> so far
[17:14] <RoAkSoAx> \o/
[17:14] <kirkland> \o/
[17:14]  * kirkland high fives hggdh 
[17:14]  * hggdh high-fives kirkland back
[17:14] <kirkland> [topic] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:14] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:14] <kirkland> smb: ^
[17:14] <smb> After completing the walk through ec2-next for lucid I sort of crashed. Unfortunately so does hardy xen in bug 705562.
[17:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 705562 in linux (Ubuntu Hardy) "ami-6836dc01 8.04 32 bit AMI kernel lock bug" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/705562
[17:15] <smb> Despite the initial pointing towards some interrupt patches, it rather looks like some corruption in the page struct
[17:15] <smb> I hope to have some debug magic, but need the reporters to recreate it as it needs some workload/data setup
[17:16] <smb> Not much more due to Easter
[17:16] <smb> ..
[17:16] <kirkland> smb: okay, thanks
[17:16] <kirkland> [topic] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[17:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[17:16] <RoAkSoAx> I have a kernel related bug that I believe should be taken care off:  bug #756894 which has apparently been unnoticed... :(
[17:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 756894 in linux (Ubuntu) "mount.ocfs2: join errors when node with kernel >= 2.6.37 joins with nodes with kernels < 2.6.37" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/756894
[17:16] <kirkland> sommer is not here
[17:16] <kirkland> [topic] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:16] <kirkland> kim0 is not here
[17:17] <kirkland> [topic] Open Discussion
[17:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[17:17] <kirkland> anyone?  anything?
[17:17] <RoAkSoAx> I have a kernel related bug that I believe should be taken care off:  bug #756894 which has apparently been unnoticed... :(
[17:17] <RoAkSoAx> smb: ^^
[17:17] <smb> RoAkSoAx, will take a look
[17:18] <RoAkSoAx> smb: thanks :)
[17:18] <smb> bug 756894
[17:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 756894 in linux (Ubuntu) "mount.ocfs2: join errors when node with kernel >= 2.6.37 joins with nodes with kernels < 2.6.37" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/756894
[17:18] <kirkland> RoAkSoAx: fwiw, poke JFo when you need to get a kernel bug noticed ;-)
[17:18] <JFo> :)
[17:18] <RoAkSoAx> kirkland: will do ;)
[17:22] <kirkland> [topic] Announce next meeting date and time
[17:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[17:23] <kirkland> May 3rd, same time, same place
[17:23] <kirkland> #endmeeting
[17:23] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 11:23.
</pre>
