{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

TZ UTC+6
{{{
09:49	mdz	good evening, all
09:49	BenC	hey mdz
09:54	Mithrandir	mdz: are we going to do the usual paste or something else this time around?
09:56	dholbach	shouldn't everybody have read the agenda before? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070201
09:56	BenC	Mithrandir: I think the idea of the agenda was to avoid it
09:56	dholbach	not sure if pasting still makes sense then
09:56	Keybuk	we're not doing the pasting afaik
09:56	Mithrandir	ok
09:57	Mithrandir	I won't prepare one, then. :-)
09:57	mdz	Mithrandir: no pasting
09:57	Keybuk	mdz: are you going to drive?
09:57	mdz	sure
09:58	mdz	just getting set up
09:59	mc44	wow crazy new format. How exciting :)
09:59	mdz	roll call?
09:59	mvo	hello
09:59	ogra_	oh, damned, new format ...
10:00	mdz	if you arrived or spoke in the past 10 minutes, I've got you; otherwise, please let me know you're here
10:00	iwj	So let's see how quickly we can manage this :-).
10:00	sfllaw	cjwatson: I added a link to DevelTeamMeetings on the agenda page.
10:00	cjwatson	sfllaw: thanks, I forgot
10:01	mdz	cjwatson: did heno mention whether he could make it?
10:01	mdz	ah, that's everyone then
10:01	cjwatson	... I won't bother answering that then. :)
10:02	mdz	heno: didn't see you come in, sorry
10:02	mdz	ok
10:02	mdz	the meeting agenda is at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070201
10:02	mdz	please have a look
10:03	mdz	if you have any new agenda items, shout
10:03	Keybuk	(everyone should read the activity reports there; if you have items to add to the agenda as a result of reading those, now is the time)
10:03	cjwatson	from now on we'll generally mail it out on the day of the meeting - probably not before the tail-end of Thursday morning though, as it takes time to prepare
10:04	BenC	mdz: What about removals?
10:04	sfllaw	Can we get a decision about what to do about -commercial support?  I'm unclear about it as is jbailey.
10:04	mdz	BenC: likewise
10:04	dholbach	I think we can drop point 7, right pitti?
10:04	BenC	mdz: apport/kernel, done
10:04	BenC	mdz: d-d-m maybe discuss, but being defered
10:04	mdz	ogra: you took the wiki lock; that means you get to do all the edits :-)
=== pitti just wrote a followup on distro-team@ and closed two feisty sprint things on the wiki page
10:05	ogra	mdz, already released
10:05	cjwatson	sfllaw: clarify?
10:05	Keybuk	ogra: please note, don't add items (or reports) to that wiki page -- instead mail them by the end of wednesday if you wish them to be included
10:05	pitti	dholbach: if the ML is the right place (as opposed to blackmailing kwwii), that's fine for me
10:05	dholbach	hahaha :-)
10:05	sfllaw	We have no way to track bugs in the BTS, and have no idea how to escalate bugs to the appropriate people to fix them.
10:05	seb128	mdz: easy codec installation can be marked done as well
10:05	ogra	Keybuk, ok, sorry, the new process somewhat went past me ...
10:05	sfllaw	Right now, they're getting dropped on the floor, which is lousy for user-experience.
10:05	mdz	BenC: done how?
10:06	BenC	mdz: apport/kernel stuff should be in Herd 3
10:06	sfllaw	cjwatson: Perhaps this isn't appropriate for the DevelTeamMeeting, though.
10:06	pitti	mdz: feisty's apport package is prepared for new behaviour for a while and should automatically switch over
10:06	mdz	BenC: oh, the new kernel interface you mean?
10:06	pitti	yup
10:06	cjwatson	sfllaw: I think that probably requires discussion with launchpad folks; perhaps mail distro-team and we can prepare something to pass to launchpad@
10:06	BenC	mdz: unless that's in regards to kernel calling apport for crashes
10:06	mdz	BenC: I thought you meant that, yeah
10:06	pitti	mdz: I tested it with a locally built kernel on the sprint
10:07	pitti	mdz: apporting kernel oopses is in apport bzr head (not uploaded due to freeze)
10:07	cjwatson	sfllaw: (I have some crude ideas but I don't want to brainstorm in this meeting)
10:07	mdz	pitti: ooh
10:07	mdz	ok, I've updated the agenda
10:07	BenC	we need a marker for changing topics in regards to the agenda
10:08	Keybuk	BenC: ?
10:08	BenC	like **CHANGING TOPIC: foo.***
10:08	BenC	so it's easy to follow
10:08	pitti	mdz: malone cloakroom is done, too
10:08	mdz	yes, that would be helpful
10:08	Keybuk	it's a wiki. just diff it :p
10:08	mdz	pitti: please go ahead and make your edits; I thought you said you already had
10:08	BenC	no, I mean in the channel :P
10:08	sfllaw	BenC: That's a clever idea.
10:08	pitti	mdz: the other wiki
10:08	BenC	while we discuss
10:08	mdz	Keybuk: he means to highlight proposals for new agenda items
10:08	mdz	oh, no he doesn't
10:09	Keybuk	we should keep the discussion to a minimum at this point :p
10:09	mdz	he means to delineate the conversation
10:09	BenC	right
10:09	cjwatson	TIMEOUT on new agenda items
10:09	mdz	agreed
10:09	BenC	there we go
10:09	pitti	mdz: done
10:09	mdz	first up: new archive team
10:09	mdz	new rule: all agenda items must have a person associated with them :-)
10:09	cjwatson	pitti is fully enfranchised; I've sent an RT request for seb128 as well
10:09	kylem	that's a good rule.
10:10	mdz	https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-archive
10:10	Keybuk	sorry, this was me from two or three different pastes
10:10	pitti	since I'm a fresh addition, and seb128 will follow soon, and Scott and Colin won't have so much time any more, I think we shuold get a new 'archive days'
10:10	seb128	agreed
10:10	Keybuk	Who are the new archive members; what are their general responsibilities and who is doing which day?
10:10	pitti	I became comfortable with SRUs and syncs
10:10	mdz	I'll add seb128 to LP
10:10	pitti	and I need to find some time with cjwatson to do langpack uploads as well
10:10	pitti	but I didn't do NEW yet
10:10	seb128	I'm happy to do binary new and syncs
10:11	iwj	Keybuk: These are good questions.  Perhaps the new archive team will send an announcement of new responsibilties, times, etc. ?
10:11	cjwatson	ACTION: cjwatson to train pitti in langpack upload procedure
10:11	mdz	are the syncs generally more complete now that we codified the policy?
10:11	pitti	seb128, Mithrandir: can we meet tomorrow for figuring out new archive days? say, 1000 UTC?
10:11	seb128	pitti: WFM
10:11	Mithrandir	I'm happy to help new members where they feel that they're not confident yet.
10:11	mdz	ACTION: followup meeting for archive team to discuss archive days
10:11	pitti	mdz: I had to reject/needinfo very few so far
10:11	Mithrandir	pitti: sure.
=== Keybuk is keeping track of actions
10:12	Keybuk	ok
10:12	cjwatson	help new members> as am I
10:12	Keybuk	next item?
10:12	cjwatson	(pitti) Artwork procedure: Martin would like to get an official Icon for apport, how do we get these kinds of things done?
10:12	Mithrandir	Keybuk: just a sec
10:12	pitti	<dholbach> pitti: for the official apport icon, I'd just ask the folks on ubuntu-art@lists.ubuntu.com
10:12	doko_	joining ...
10:12	Mithrandir	I'd really like to have one of the new members to become comfortable with source NEW as well, or I'll implode at some point.
10:12	pitti	if that implies any chance of actually getting one, I'm fine with the ML
10:12	mdz	pitti: kwwii is the person to talk to about that
10:13	kwwii	pitti: we can discuss this offline
10:13	pitti	kwwii: sure
10:13	pitti	ACTION: pitti and kwwii discuss apport artwork
10:13	mdz	tell him your need, and he can submit it to the community, track submissions, and perhaps be a fallback to create an icon if none turns up
10:13	mdz	(BenC) Fate of udev. Will kernel team take it over, or will Ian? Admittedly, udev should work as-is for feisty, but I want to know if in the future we should expect to do changes ourselves, or be able to go to another person taking the responsibility. Trying to account for workload.
10:13	pitti	Keybuk: you'll collect those with /lastlog ACTION or so?
10:13	mdz	pitti: he's noting them as we go
10:13	iwj	I'd be happy to help deal with it.
10:14	cjwatson	ACTION: archive team to ensure that at least one further member is trained in source NEW
10:14	Keybuk	udev is mostly a hands off project
10:14	iwj	I'm still a beginner as regards udev and not up to speed with kernel development nowadays.
10:14	Keybuk	it just needs updating in step with the kernel
10:14	BenC	iwj: Deal with it totally?
10:14	iwj	Keybuk: That sounds good.
=== pitti has some experience with source package review with MIR and thus could help out
10:14	Keybuk	and bugs rejected if they ask for package names
10:14	iwj	BenC: If what Keybuk says is true then yes.
10:14	Keybuk	uh
10:14	Keybuk	device names
10:14	mdz	Keybuk: it also needs someone to help isolate problems
10:14	BenC	iwj: Are you using udev? :)
10:14	cjwatson	pitti: I think you'd be the obvious person
10:14	iwj	BenC: On my Ubuntu systems, yes.
10:14	pitti	cjwatson: *nod*
10:15	Mithrandir	pitti: we'll discuss it tomorrow at 1000 utc
10:15	BenC	ok, I'm happy with iwj taking on udev
10:15	Keybuk	my gut feeling has been that someone on Colin's team, ideally the kernel team, should take it on
10:15	kylem	me too.
10:15	Keybuk	as it's an upstream project, and very closely related to the kernel
10:15	Keybuk	but I'm also happy for someone like iwj to take it on as well
10:15	iwj	I don't really have an opinion.
10:15	BenC	I was actually looking for more kernel realted packages for the kernel-team, but if someone else has the notion, Im not against it
10:15	mdz	I agree that it makes sense for the kernel team to own it
10:15	cjwatson	I agree with mdz
10:16	iwj	BenC: Well, if you guys want it don't let me stand in your way.
10:16	seb128	pitti: I'm not that comfortable doing source NEW for now, I would prefer to stick to binary new and syncs to start if that's fine with you
10:16	mdz	BenC: the kernel team has the most resources at the moment, with new folks coming on board
10:16	iwj	I'll probably still take a slight interest.
10:16	pitti	seb128: I am, let's talk about it tomorrow
10:16	cjwatson	I have no objection to stuff being arranged so that iwj can help out
10:16	seb128	pitti: ok
10:16	BenC	mdz: Right, we need work load fillers, and things to take off the daily bug grind
10:16	Keybuk	iwj has already proved very useful in touching things that interface with udev, like lvm, etc.
10:16	mdz	naturally, it wouldn't be an exclusive responsibility; anyone who is interested can help out
10:16	cjwatson	but I'd like the kernel team to own stuff that touches very closely on kernelspace from the userspace side
10:16	iwj	mdz: Right.
10:16	cjwatson	(as a general guideline)
10:17	pitti	does that also include the current pile of udev specs?
10:17	BenC	yes
10:17	iwj	pitti: Let's discuss them later.
10:17	cjwatson	pitti: not for feisty, but going forward yes
10:17	Keybuk	ACTION: keybuk to summarise a "how to maintain udev" for the kernel team, and "how to debug problems" for all interested parties
10:17	mdz	agreed, I'd like for the kernel team to take a general responsibility for hardware-related interfaces in userspace as well
10:17	cjwatson	ok, done?
10:18	cjwatson	(sfllaw) Support for -commercial
10:18	mdz	Keybuk: debugging doc should be run by sfllaw and bdmurray
10:18	BenC	ACTION: kernel-team to investigate packages that fit into their work
10:18	BenC	horde everything possible
10:18	pitti	BenC: hal :-P
10:18	mdz	both for their own information and for review for presentation to the community
10:18	BenC	heh, ouch
10:18	cjwatson	(I thought this was going to go to the ML, but it's ended up on the agenda now)
10:18	kylem	lsscsi, lspcmcia, etc.
10:18	mdz	I added it to the agenda
10:18	cjwatson	21:10 <cjwatson> I think the simplest approach would be to create an ubuntu-commercial distro
10:18	cjwatson	21:10 <cjwatson> (name unimportant as long as it contains "commercial")
10:18	mdz	sfllaw: the issue is that these packages aren't in launchpad, yes?
10:18	cjwatson	21:11 <sfllaw> That doesn't solve how escalations work...  What I'm saying is I have no idea what the procedure is.
10:18	cjwatson	21:12 <cjwatson> it would solve the problem of being unable to file bugs, and make it possible for people to be bug contacts
10:18	cjwatson	21:13 <cjwatson> which would mean that you could look them up, and complain (to the uploader, or to distro management since only distro team can upload to -commercial) when no bug contacts were registered
10:19	cjwatson	21:13 <cjwatson> anyway, let's do this on distro-team@
10:19	mdz	it would be better to import the package names into an Ubuntu component somehow
10:19	mdz	anyway, agreed, let's take it up with launchpad
10:19	mdz	cjwatson: your action item to follow it up?
10:19	cjwatson	sure
10:19	mdz	ok
10:19	mdz	done and done
10:19	sfllaw	I'll e-mail distro-team@ and we can discuss.
10:19	sfllaw	Thanks.
10:20	cjwatson	ACTION: cjwatson to follow up handling of -commercial in Launchpad
10:20	mdz	udev, device-mapper, lvm, evms, mdadm, etc. finishing and testing (Ian, Fabio, Scott)
10:20	iwj	Re udev-* specs.  I this was unblocked but actually Keybuk tells me he has a 104 package floating about.
10:20	iwj	udev-104, that is.
10:20	cjwatson	what does 104 get us?
10:20	cjwatson	though it is pre-UVF, granted
10:20	iwj	I don't really know.  The upstream changelog was rather obscure.
10:20	Keybuk	it may fix problems with .20 and device-mapper devices
10:20	iwj	`problems' ?
10:20	pitti	Keybuk: oh, the race condition? fixed upstream now?
10:21	iwj	I think the best thing here is for Keybuk to finish and upload his 104 package and then for me to take these specs and finish them off.
10:21	Keybuk	agreeed
10:21	mdz	104 is required to finish the specs?
10:21	Keybuk	no
10:22	Keybuk	it's orthagonal
10:22	mdz	iwj: then those should be parallel, not serial
10:22	iwj	But if it changes the way the dm-* devices are handled then it would involve rework to do 104 later.
10:22	Keybuk	it doesn't change it in any way that affects your specs
10:22	iwj	Keybuk: Err, OK.  I must have misunderstood some of your earlier comments.
10:22	iwj	(In private message this afternoon, I mean.)
10:23	mdz	ok, sounds like the two of you can work this out offline?
10:23	iwj	I'll press on basing things on 103 then.
10:23	iwj	mdz: Yes.
10:23	Keybuk	it simply reduces the number of times your rules would be called from twice (once on dmsetup, once after the table is loaded) to once after the table is loaded (or changed)
10:23	mdz	Device Driver Manager (Scott, Ben)
10:23	Keybuk	mdz: we've decided to defer that to +1, I believe
10:23	cjwatson	we dealt with that the other day, it's deferred to feisty+1
10:23	cjwatson	NEXT
10:23	mdz	ok
10:23	BenC	device-driver-manager is going to be defered
10:23	mdz	Automated testing deployment (Ian, Robert)
10:23	iwj	In progress, I'm debugging my code.
10:24	iwj	I'm not sure why Robert is on this agenda item.
10:24	mdz	BenC: it will be nice to have some time to polish up the UI, I'm sure
10:24	iwj	Are there two separate things going on here ?
10:24	cjwatson	iwj: that was copied from the sprint agenda
10:24	mdz	there's no hurry to get it in just now
10:24	iwj	mdz: OK.
10:24	BenC	mdz: Definitely
10:24	mdz	this is a list of items from the sprint agenda which had no outcome recorded
10:25	iwj	Right, well, Robert and I discussed all relevant things and that sprint agenda item should count as done.
10:25	mdz	iwj: I understand you and lifeless did have a conversation about this; what's the outlook?
10:25	keescook	iwj: keep me in the loop on auto testing docs please; I've been building tests while doing security update tests.  I want to make sure the stuff pitti and I have been doing will be each to port over.
10:25	iwj	keescook: Noted.
10:25	cjwatson	in many cases we simply didn't notice that the sprint item should be marked as done, and that's fine - just want to ensure they're all checked
10:26	pitti	keescook: I prepared a new dovecot package with the test included and autopkgtest'ified and sent it to iwj
10:26	iwj	mdz: We did have a conversation but the commonality between what we're doing isn't huge right now.  But we're keeping each other informed so there won't be duplicated work.
10:26	iwj	pitti: Right.  That's going to be my second testcase after I get mawk working.
10:26	mdz	iwj: the point of it was that he's available to help us with initiatives like this
10:26	pitti	iwj: cool :)
10:26	keescook	pitti: right; I just want to know what the Right methods are for autopkgtest'ifying.  :)
10:26	iwj	mdz: He has offered to review my Python :-).
10:27	iwj	keescook: Indeed.
10:27	BenC	mdz, cjwatson, Keybuk: So for next week, will the actions items from this meeting be on the agenda, and we can mark them in the wiki as done to avoid discussion?
10:27	cjwatson	BenC: yes
10:27	iwj	When I get dovecot working I'll have an update for you and updated docs too.
10:27	BenC	excellent
10:27	cjwatson	"actions from previous meeting" is a standing item
10:27	mdz	BenC: they'll be sent out to the mailing list after this meeting, and responses can be incorporated when we make the next agenda
10:27	mdz	Integrate update-silo that's outside of SPARC installer scope (spec is already implemented). (Fabio, Ben)
10:27	keescook	iwj: great, thank you.  :)
10:27	cjwatson	Fabio is travelling; BenC?
10:27	Keybuk	mdz: fabio is on his way to montreal right now
10:27	BenC	no work on that yet
10:28	BenC	I have a working script, just need to get it into the installer and into silo
10:28	sfllaw	He is set to arrive at the airport at around 19:00.
10:28	mdz	what's it about?  is it needed for feisty?
10:28	sfllaw	I believe jbailey is going to have dinner with him.
10:28	BenC	Fabio was going to do the installer bits
10:28	BenC	getting into silo is just an upload away
10:28	BenC	mdz: It's not required, no
10:28	BenC	just a useful update-grub-like script
10:28	cjwatson	we don't really need to track it as an action, then
10:28	BenC	no, not really
10:29	mdz	being a nice-to-have for sparc makes it a pretty low priority
10:29	cjwatson	it makes the sparc post-install boot sequence less sucky, but ...
10:29	mdz	Braille support and making access in GDM just work (Henrik, ?)
10:29	BenC	very low-prio, on the verge of can-do-without
10:29	cjwatson	ACTION: cjwatson to re-review and incorporate braille-setup into installer
10:29	cjwatson	(probably easier than any alternative)
10:30	heno	so braille support should be ok for FF, but GDM is looking to be a pain
10:30	cjwatson	"UNCERTAIN: access-gdm -- ATM selecting the accessible login option in the setup GUI completely breaks GDM. This can likely be fixed with some love, but even then it's only in the non-themed interface, not our default."
10:30	heno	upstream needs to implement support in the themed version
10:30	cjwatson	(heno's update)
10:31	mdz	heno: is this a regression from edgy?
10:31	heno	perhaps we should grey out the check box when the themed version is selected
10:31	heno	mdz: no, it has never worked
10:31	cjwatson	themed> as in the fancy greeter?
10:31	heno	cjwatson: yes, the one we use
10:32	heno	youcan get the old one to work with some tweaking, ut nobody uses that
10:32	heno	it defeats the purpose IMO
10:32	mdz	heno: assume you'll track it and take the best course available for feisty.  is there more to discuss?
10:32	heno	mdz: no, that's fine
10:33	mdz	ok
10:33	mdz	doko isn't here, so we should carry his over
10:33	cjwatson	IIRC it was reviewing the list of modules in main and deciding which still make sense
10:33	mdz	pitti,keescook: I'm assuming InitialUbuntuCVETracking isn't done in launchpad yet?
10:33	cjwatson	but yes
10:33	doko	mdz: I'm listening
10:33	pitti	mdz: right, low prio and blocked on InitialCVETracking LP spec
10:34	mdz	cjwatson: yes, that sounds like a discussion which should be had via mail with a larger group, say on ubuntu-devel
10:34	mdz	Herd milestone progress (Tollef, Jonathan, Scott, Colin?, Matt?)
10:34	Keybuk	that was just that I wanted to discuss some things with them both
10:34	Keybuk	I have done that
10:34	mdz	Keybuk: anything notable for the group?
10:34	Riddell	Kubuntu is ready to go as far as I'm concerned
10:34	cjwatson	mdz: yes, it was to be a group discussion but never happened
=== ogra is still testing
10:35	mdz	cjwatson: mailing list moderation?
10:35	cjwatson	doko: as mdz says, ubuntu-devel is probably the best bet, now that it's moderated and hopefully won't descend into bikeshedding
10:35	Keybuk	mdz: nothing of note; mostly it was just making sure that I get updates of the milestone progress so I can tell you when you ask :)
10:36	mdz	Mithrandir: what do you think of having a milestone readiness update at each meeting, so we can stay informed of blockers and todos?
10:36	cjwatson	we didn't get round to that at the sprint. Who here is interested in doing mailing list moderation on a regular basis? The item was to ensure we're all doing it in roughly the same way.
10:36	Keybuk	cjwatson: Other Business
10:36	cjwatson	ubuntu-devel, chiefly
10:36	cjwatson	Keybuk: uh, it's an agenda item
10:36	mdz	I'm interested, but have no time
10:36	mdz	do we have written guidelines?
10:36	mdz	I can help with that
10:37	Mithrandir	mdz: that would be useful, but probably more as something where people tell me about problems
10:37	cjwatson	IIRC Tollef expressed interest
10:37	Keybuk	cjwatson: ah, sorry, didn't see the item :p
10:37	dholbach	I moderated like 10 mailing lists already and feel that's enough already. :-/
10:37	cjwatson	I don't think we do, but we should
10:37	cjwatson	aside from the charter
10:37	mdz	cjwatson: this strikes me as something which would benefit from community participation
10:37	Mithrandir	cjwatson: I'm happy to.
10:37	heno	I'm happy to moderate, given some guidelines
10:37	mdz	cjwatson: can you contact jono and ask him to put out a call?
10:38	cjwatson	ACTION: cjwatson to chase up the set of core-devs who can help moderate ubuntu-devel and arrange for clear documentation
10:38	mdz	cjwatson: perhaps not too broad; we only want folks we can trust with the responsibility
10:38	mdz	shouldn't have to be only core devs
10:38	cjwatson	I think core-dev is the appropriate restriction
10:38	mdz	if we write clear guidelines
10:38	cjwatson	most of the people I'd automatically trust with it are already core-dev
10:38	mdz	ACTION: mdz to codify mailing list guidelines
10:39	mdz	Kubuntu Dist Upgrader (Michael, Jonathan)
=== Mithrandir mumbles something about that mailman should just use lp for authentication
10:39	Riddell	waiting for mvo to upload
10:39	mvo_	I merged jonathans code into the main tree
10:39	mvo_	will be uploaded after herd-3
10:39	Riddell	then it needs backported and lots of testing
10:40	cjwatson	is it qt4?
10:40	Riddell	cjwatson: no, it needs the embedded konsole widget from KDE
10:40	cjwatson	probably just as well
10:41	cjwatson	any actions from this beyond what mvo and Riddell are going to do anyway?
10:41	Riddell	only poking archive admin when it needs to get into -proposed and -updates
10:41	cjwatson	ok, that's routine
10:41	Riddell	yep
10:41	cjwatson	ANY OTHER BUSINESS
10:42	BenC	wow, 15 minutes to spare
10:42	mdz	yes
10:42	pitti	some feedback for the meeting style: I found it significantly less boring
10:42	Riddell	we can now poke iwj about main inclusion reviews?
10:42	iwj	This new meeting format is a massive improvement.  With practice we can trim it even more.
10:42	iwj	Riddell: Yes.
10:42	BenC	pitti: as did I
10:42	mdz	heno: herd 3 will be the dry run of the new ISO testing scheme, yes?
10:42	cjwatson	this one will be unusually long due to the sprint followup, I think
10:43	pitti	less reading, more discussion, ++
10:43	Riddell	iwj: kde-style-polyester in the queue if you want an easy one
10:43	mdz	Riddell: the screenshot in your activity summary is very nice looking
10:43	BenC	I actually stopped working during this meeting :)
10:43	iwj	cjwatson: Quite.  And we'll get more practice at getting stuff off the agenda.
10:43	heno	mdz: yes, we are already using it. 6-7 community results so far
10:43	iwj	Riddell: OK, but not now, because I'm off to the pub.  Email me ?
10:43	pitti	iwj: I cleaned up the queue a bit yesterday
10:43	cjwatson	I need to help abattoir out with a few things
10:43	iwj	pitti: I saw.
10:43	Riddell	iwj: sure
10:43	cjwatson	in order to get that properly mergeable I need to finish off a timezone branch I have in progress
10:43	iwj	Or ping me on irc tomorrow.  Whatever you like.
10:43	heno	We should keep it open after the release as well, to get people used to it
10:43	mdz	heno: we should use it for canonical testing as well
10:44	heno	mdz: we are :)
10:44	cjwatson	which basically amounts to admitting that I won't get round to merging oem-config into ubiquity this time round and clone-and-hacking from u6y instead
10:44	Riddell	cjwatson: let me know if I can help with anything there
10:44	iwj	Thanks everyone, esp cjwatson and Keybuk, for efficiency and bevity.  And goodnight all.
10:44	kwwii	pitti: send me an email with any ideas/info about the icon you need...then let's talk in chat about it
10:44	heno	https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-iso-tests/+bugs
10:44	Keybuk	== Apologies ==
10:44	Keybuk	## One advantage of this meeting format is we get to list who's not coming.
10:44	Keybuk	meh
10:44	pitti	kwwii: great, will do
10:44	Keybuk	I meant to say
10:44	mdz	we have a couple of new folks
10:44	Keybuk	I'll mail out the action points to distro-team, and update the meeting page
10:45	pitti	Keybuk: yay for two clipboards under X? :-)
10:45	cjwatson	oh yes, we missed new starters off the agenda
10:45	mdz	Philip Lougher (pkl_) joins the kernel team with BenC and kylem
10:45	cjwatson	that's Phillip
=== pitti hugs pkl_
=== kylem waves to pkl.
10:45	Keybuk	pitti: yay to firefox slapping over both of them
10:45	BenC	pkl_: welcome
=== dholbach high-fives pkl_
10:45	Riddell	hi pkl_
10:45	mdz	you may know him from SquashFS
10:45	ogra	welcome pkl_
10:45	Keybuk	pkl_: welcome aboard
10:45	pkl_	Hi, I'm lurking, just learning
10:45	mdz	today is his first day
=== keescook waves "hi" to pkl_
10:45	cjwatson	pkl_: thanks for showing up at short notice, and I hope things are going well
10:46	cjwatson	have fun scaling the learning curve
10:46	pkl_	cjwatson: thanks
10:46	mdz	likewise, Alexander Sack is new on the team
10:46	cjwatson	Ben is mentoring Phillip
10:46	cjwatson	Ian is mentoring Alexander
10:46	mdz	I believe his nick is asac
10:46	dholbach	Rock on asac! another member of the 'german mafia' :-)
10:47	cjwatson	Alexander is joining as our new Mozilla maintainer, which fills a much-needed gap
10:47	kwwii	oh please, here go the germans
10:47	bdmurray	dholbach: not the Cargo Cult?
=== dholbach hugs kwwii
10:47	BenC	asac: welcome
10:47	mdz	asac isn't able to be at this after-hours meeting tonight, but will be around tomorrow
10:47	tkamppeter__	Has Ubuntu already more german developers than Novell/SuSE?
10:48	kwwii	dholbach: we've got to plan that artwork meeting in Berlin
10:48	cjwatson	oh, also, Alexander is half-time at present; I imagine we'll get used to his schedule, but he's agreed to set up a calendar
10:48	dholbach	kwwii: definitely :)
10:48	ogra	yay, hey asac
10:48	mdz	ok, that's all from me tonight
10:48	cjwatson	I think that's everything
10:48	mdz	any other business?
10:48	sfllaw	Summaries of action items in the wiki page?
10:49	cjwatson	I don't think I informed Till properly of the new meeting arrangements, so I'll do that
10:49	cjwatson	Keybuk was to do the summaries
10:50	mdz	summaries?
10:50	Keybuk	sfllaw: already done
10:50	mdz	oh
10:50	sfllaw	Sweet!
=== sfllaw hugs Keybuk.
10:50	Keybuk	and mailed to distro-team
10:50	mdz	Keybuk: please mail to the list as well
10:50	mdz	:-)
10:50	tkamppeter__	cjwatson, i have seen that no one pastes his report any more.
10:50	cjwatson	tkamppeter__: I'll e-mail you, sorry for forgetting that this week
10:50	mdz	tkamppeter__: we're trying something new
10:51	tkamppeter__	And I really did not get any mail about the new format.
10:51	cjwatson	you didn't, my fault
10:51	mdz	tkamppeter__: cjwatson will explain to you after the meeting
10:51	mdz	I'm not hearing any other business
10:51	mdz	so let's adjourn
10:51	mdz	thanks, all!
10:51	Keybuk	thanks all
10:51	dholbach	good night folks - thanks all
10:51	mvo_	good night everyone
10:52	seb128	'night
10:52	kylem	night.
10:52	doko	night
10:52	ogra	thanks
=== keescook waves
10:52	kwwii	night all, thanks
10:52	pitti	thanks all!
10:52	pkl_	good night}}}
