{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Server FAQ =====

nijaba reviewed the questions from the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerFaq|ServerFaQ]]</nowiki>. He added new ones at the bottom of the page. The next step is now to update the answers.

ACTION: mathiaz to add a section about updating the ServerFAQ to the Roadmap

ACTION: sommer and nijaba to start updating the answers

ACTION: kirkland to review the RAID related questions

===== Ideas for Jaunty =====

mathiaz reminded that ideas for Jaunty should be added to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/IdeaPool|ServerTeam IdeaPool]]</nowiki> page so that they can be reviewed and included in discussions for the next UDS.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, November 11th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:00. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <mathiaz> Welcome to the first meeting of the Server Team in this new era of jauntyness!
[16:01] <mathiaz> Today's joyfull agenda can be found online at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <nijaba> that's a tough agenda we have today
[16:02] <mathiaz> Last week's intrepid minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20081028
[16:02] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Server FAQ
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server FAQ
[16:03] <mathiaz> sommer: nijaba: how are things moving there?
[16:03] <nijaba> I worked a bit on the FAQ today
[16:03] <nijaba> there are about 2/3 of the questions that needs updating
[16:03] <sommer> I did some small updates last week, but it still needs work
[16:03] <nijaba> I have added (needs update) in their title
[16:04] <nijaba> I have also listed a few new questions at the end and a table of content
[16:04] <mathiaz> nijaba: great!
[16:04] <mathiaz> I'll add section to the roadmap covering the ServerFaQ
[16:05] <nijaba> kirkland: could you take care of updating the raid question?
[16:05] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to add a section about updating the ServerFAQ to the Roadmap
[16:05] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to add a section about updating the ServerFAQ to the Roadmap
[16:05] <kirkland> nijaba: url?
[16:05] <mathiaz> nijaba: is the list of questions to be updated finalized?
[16:05] <nijaba> kirkland: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerFaq
[16:06] <mathiaz> nijaba: ie should we focus on reviewing the answer now?
[16:06] <nijaba> mathiaz: unless some other new questions are added, yes
[16:06] <nijaba> mathiaz: I think we can focus on the answers now, and work on them later if new questions appear
[16:07] <mathiaz> nijaba: ok.
[16:07]  * nijaba thinks that the answer should be made unpersonal
[16:07] <mathiaz> nijaba: are there other specific topics that need input from one of us (like kirkland for raid)
[16:07] <mathiaz> nijaba: ?
[16:08] <nijaba> mathiaz: soem of the question name people asking questions...
[16:08] <kirkland> nijaba: mathiaz: is this something that Launchpad Answers should be used for ?
[16:08] <mathiaz> kirkland: I don't think so. IIUC the FAQ is a generic FAQ
[16:08] <nijaba> mathiaz: not that I can think of, but will ask if sommer or I have pb answering them
[16:09] <nijaba> kirkland: I think it is nice to have a "controlled" page for a FAQ
[16:09] <mathiaz> kirkland: LP answers are more targeted at answering specific questions/user requests.
[16:09] <kirkland> mathiaz: okay
[16:09] <mathiaz> kirkland: moreover AFICT the server team is not using the LP answers.
[16:10] <nijaba> sommer: how do you want to split the work?
[16:10] <mathiaz> kirkland: or at least I don't know of anyone answering LP questions related to server topics.
[16:10] <sommer> nijaba: doesn't matter to me... I can start at the bottom and work up
[16:11] <nijaba> sommer: ok, I'll go the other way then :)
[16:11] <kirkland> mathiaz: k
[16:11] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer and nijaba to start updating the answers.
[16:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer and nijaba to start updating the answers.
[16:11] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to review the RAID related questions
[16:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to review the RAID related questions
[16:11] <mathiaz> nijaba: sommer: anything else on this topic?
[16:12] <nijaba> nope
[16:12] <sommer> nothing from me
[16:12] <mathiaz> ok - anything else regarding last week's minutes?
[16:13] <mathiaz> nope. Let's move on
[16:13] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ideas for Jaunty
[16:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ideas for Jaunty
[16:13] <mathiaz> As you may have noticed we're preparing for another release of Ubuntu due in six months.
[16:13] <zul> yay!
[16:14] <mathiaz> UDS topics are being worked on.
[16:14] <mathiaz> If you've got new ideas, please add them to the ServerTeam IdeaPool.
[16:14] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/IdeaPool
[16:14] <mathiaz> I've also purged the Roadmap
[16:15] <mathiaz> There are some items which status I don't know.
[16:15] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Integration of SASL and Postfix
[16:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Integration of SASL and Postfix
[16:15] <mathiaz> ivoks: ^?
[16:15] <ivoks> right...
[16:15] <mathiaz> ivoks: is this still something being worked on/considered?
[16:15] <ivoks> i'll propose solutions for this problem in early dev. phase
[16:16] <ivoks> i'll have time next week
[16:16] <mathiaz> ivoks: ok - so it's still on the radar
[16:16] <ivoks> yes
[16:16] <mathiaz> ivoks: great.
[16:16] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Merges
[16:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Merges
[16:16] <mathiaz> As of now, Jaunty is *not* opened.
[16:17] <mathiaz> The basic toolchain and packages are still be worked on.
[16:17] <mathiaz> The archive should probably open sometime this week. By then, we'll go back in merge mode!
[16:18] <soren> \o/
[16:19] <mathiaz> last time around, I was publishing a list of *easy* merges.
[16:19] <mathiaz> I was wondering if that was a good idea
[16:19] <mathiaz> what do other people thing about such a list?
[16:19] <sommer> I think it's a good idea :)
[16:19]  * soren too
[16:20] <ivoks> (don't have strong opinion :)
[16:20] <mathiaz> ok. I'll keep publishing such a list for this cycle then.
[16:20] <mathiaz> well - that's all I have.
[16:20] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open discussion
[16:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open discussion
[16:21]  * mathiaz leaves the floor to crazy ideas
[16:21] <zul> no crazy ideas from me this time
[16:21] <ivoks> accept dbconfig-common as a standard tool for databases :D
[16:21] <mathiaz> zul: you got burned by this whole FB story?
[16:22] <zul> mathiaz: i didnt get any emails about it thankfully :)
[16:22] <mathiaz> ivoks: isn't it already in main?
[16:22] <ivoks> mathiaz: it is, but my question is 'why we don't use it? and why did i remove it from bacula?' :)
[16:22] <zul> because it wasnt it main at the time
[16:22] <ivoks> it wasn't?
[16:23] <ivoks> ok then
[16:23] <ivoks> so, we could just re-merge it back?
[16:23] <zul> ivoks: pretty much
[16:23] <mathiaz> ivoks: probably yes :)
[16:23] <ivoks> praise the lord :)
[16:24] <zul> yes praise him indeed
[16:24] <mathiaz> ivoks: one of the debian devloper may be at UDS
[16:24] <zul> uds or fosscamp?
[16:24] <mathiaz> zul: don't know.
[16:25] <nijaba> mathiaz: do we know who's been invited now?  is there a list somewhere?
[16:25] <mathiaz> nijaba: there is a list *somewhere*. However I don't know where the *somewhere* is...
[16:26] <nijaba> www.perdu.com ?
[16:26] <soren> ?!?
[16:26] <ivoks> lol
[16:26] <sommer> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDSJaunty/Attendees
[16:27] <soren> "Lost on the Internet" or some such?
[16:27] <nijaba> soren: yes O<--- you are here
[16:27] <ivoks> soren: yes
[16:27] <soren> No, I'm not. I'm over there ---> *
[16:27] <ivoks> soren: don't panic, we're here to help you
[16:27] <ivoks> soren: * <---- you are here
[16:28] <ivoks> oh...
[16:28] <ivoks> :)
[16:28] <mathiaz> sommer: ok. These are mainly ubuntu members.
[16:29] <mathiaz> sommer: some upstream folks have also been invited (to Fooscamp and/or UDS)
[16:29] <ScottK> foos/foss
[16:29] <sommer> ohh, gotcha
[16:29] <ivoks> mathiaz: you'll meet kern, right?
[16:29] <mathiaz> ivoks: probably
[16:30] <ivoks> ok
[16:30] <mathiaz> allright - so I think that's all I have to say for today's meeting
[16:30] <mathiaz> I'll be running a session for OpenWeek in 1:30 hours
[16:31] <mathiaz> in #ubuntu-classroom
[16:31] <mathiaz> ie at 18:00 UTC
[16:31] <nijaba> mathiaz: break a leg
[16:31] <soren> mathiaz: About what?
[16:31] <ivoks> server team?
[16:31] <mathiaz> soren: the server team
[16:31] <ivoks> all right! more PR :D
[16:31] <soren> Awesome :)
[16:31] <mathiaz> what we did for the intrepid cycle and how to get involved
[16:32] <mathiaz> there are tons of other sessions and topics covered the whole week
[16:32] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek has more information
[16:33] <mathiaz> kirkland and soren are also running a session
[16:33] <mathiaz> Anything else to add?
[16:36] <mathiaz> seems not
[16:36] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:36] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place?
[16:37] <ivoks> this is better time, yes
[16:37] <sommer> works for me :)
[16:38] <mathiaz> ivoks: better time?
[16:38] <mathiaz> ivoks: it should be the same time as usual (last week being unusual)
[16:39] <ivoks> mathiaz: right - it's the same :D
[16:39] <mathiaz> ok - so see you all next week, same time in here.,
[16:39] <kirkland> adios!
[16:39] <mathiaz> Congratulations for intrepid
[16:39] <mathiaz> and welcome to Jaunty!
[16:39] <kirkland> \o/
[16:39] <sommer> later on all
[16:40] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[16:40] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:40.
</pre>
