{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=01&day=27&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jan 27th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* tyhicks
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* sbeattie
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to the following people thanks for help on security updates since the last meeting: Johan Van de Wauw (tamrat) provided debdiffs for precise-saucy for mapserver (LP: #1267616), Thomas Ward (TheLordOfTime) provided debdiffs for raring for znc (LP: #1268658), Felix Geyer (debfx) provided debdiffs for Precise, Quantal, Saucy for quassel (LP: #1255362). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
** [ACTION] chrisccoulson to benchmark oxide and qtwebkit once armhf builds work
** [ACTION] chrisccoulson to send results of benchmarks to list
** blocked on input methods (IM), which is blocked on Qt 5.2, which is blocked on frameworks discussions
** [ACTION] jdstrand to follow-up on list regarding status of oxide benchmarks and why they are blocked
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** prepare for sprint
** work items as time allows
** mdeslaur
** short week
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** tyhicks
** looking into an ecryptfs bug at the moment (LP: #1265841)
** !AppArmor
*** kdbus patches and mailing list
*** jdstrand asked about yama on touch: emulator segfaults when running unity tests and can't test all the kernels. We'll test on real hardware then coordinate with the kernel team for a pull request and then a landing
** jjohansen
** AppArmor
** sarnold
** community
** libotr patches from debfx to test and release
** several MIRs
** review cgmanager
** sprint prep (ie, look at !AppArmor profile load)
** chrisccoulson
** oxide
*** looking at oxide bugs that make oxide unusable on the device
*** last week worked on cmake which greatly decreases build time so people can iterate much more quickly now
*** firefox release next week
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-01-27-16.38.html
