{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** rbasak to review mysql-5.6 transition plans with ABI breaks with infinity
** blueprint updating
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
* re: rbasak noted that regarding mysql mysql-5.6 transition / abi infinity action, we decided to defer the 5.6 move for this cycle, as we felt it was too late given the ABI concerns.

===== Utopic Development =====
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule 
* ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
* ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html 
* ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server 

===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====
* Nothing to report.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) =====
Nothing to report.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) =====
* smb reports that he is digging into a potential race between libvirt and xen init

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
* None to report.

===== Open Discussion =====
* Pretty quiet.  Not even any bad jokes.  Back to crunch time!

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====
next meeting will be : Tue Oct 7 16:00:00 UTC 2014
chair will be lutostag

===== Meeting Actions =====
* ''ACTION:'' all to review blueprint work items before next weeks meeting.

=== People present (lines said) ===
People present (lines said)
* beisner (54)
* smb (8)
* meetingology (4)
* smoser (3)
* rbasak (3)
* kickinz1 (3)
* caribou (2)
* gnuoy (1)
* matsubara (1)
* jamespage (1)
* arges (1)
* hallyn (1)

=== Full Log ===
<pre>
16:00 <beisner>		#startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
16:00 <meetingology>		Meeting started Tue Sep 30 16:00:42 2014 UTC.  The chair is beisner. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
16:00 <meetingology>		
16:00 <meetingology>		Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
16:01 <beisner>		hello!
16:01 <gnuoy>		hi!
16:01 <arges>		o/
16:01 <beisner>		ok, all set.
16:01 <beisner>		#topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
16:02 <matsubara>		o/
16:03 <jamespage>		o/
16:03 <beisner>		no action points from last wk
16:03 <caribou>		o/
16:03 <smb>		o/
16:03 <beisner>		other than the usual bp update reminders
16:04 <beisner>		#topic Utopic Development
16:04 <beisner>		#link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
16:04 <beisner>		so final beta & final beta freeze was last wk
16:05 <beisner>		next milestone in U release:  Oct 9  kernel freeze
16:05 <beisner>		any other points re: release schedule?
16:05 <smoser>		and we released beta of cloud images.  (http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/utopic/beta-2/)
16:06 <smoser>		well, we're in crunch time now.
16:06 <beisner>		great!  thanks smoser.
16:06 <smoser>		if you're aware of issues in ubuntu, now is the time to raise them to someone.
16:06 <beisner>		down to the wire indeed
16:06 <beisner>		speaking of...
16:06 <beisner>		#subtopic Release Bugs
16:07 <beisner>		#link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
16:07 <kickinz1>		confirm pb with bcache needing a reboot to discard the caching device
16:07 <beisner>		kickinz1, is there a bug?
16:08 <beisner>		no critical bugs atm, woot.
16:08 <beisner>		several bugs unassigned, do we need to pin that down?
16:09 <kickinz1>		yes if you do a mistake when creating a bcache device (ie swapping backing and caching, wrong backing) it still creats a bad bcache device, but you cannnot control it unti you poweroff the machine, to re-create it...
16:10 <kickinz1>		I'll chat with rbasak to know who to send this to
16:10 <beisner>		ok let's make sure we get a big filed
16:10 <beisner>		rewinding a sec...  there was an action item.  "rbasak to review mysql-5.6 transition plans with ABI breaks with infinity"
16:11 <beisner>		rbasak appears to be offline
16:11 <rbasak>		o/
16:12 <beisner>		hi !
16:12 <beisner>		rbasak, anything to note on review mysql-5.6 transition / abi infinity action?
16:12 <rbasak>		We decided to defer the 5.6 move for this cycle.
16:12 <beisner>		ok thank you
16:13 <rbasak>		We felt it was too late given the ABI concerns.
16:13 <beisner>		any other bug issues to raise or discuss?
16:13 <beisner>		moving on then
16:13 <beisner>		#subtopic Blueprints
16:13 <beisner>		#link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
16:15 <beisner>		as mentioned, it's crunch time.  please be sure your blueprints are updated.
16:16 <beisner>		#action all to review blueprint work items before next weeks meeting
16:16 * meetingology all to review blueprint work items before next weeks meeting
16:16 <beisner>		#topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
16:16 <caribou>		Hi, everything is good on my side, thanks
16:16 <beisner>		hi caribou
16:16 <beisner>		ack thank you
16:17 <beisner>		#topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
16:18 <beisner>		I see a lot of activity in qa iso tracker, looks like test cases are getting the usual late-cycle manual runs.
16:18 <beisner>		psivaa, anything else to note?
16:18 <beisner>		on to kernel...
16:18 <beisner>		#topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
16:18 <smb>		Hi. One thing I seem to hit in Utopic is that libvirt and xen init seem to be more affected to race against each other on boot up. Though I need to get more data there. Other than that I only wished I could make systemd-logind shut up about things I do not care about anyway (for good). Those attack my senses for a nice login on vt1...  :-P That's all. Questions?
16:19 <beisner>		smb is always sooo fast to respond!
16:19 * smb tries to be prepared
16:19 <hallyn>		he has an expect script
16:19 <smb>		oh yeah, should write a chat bot for myself
16:19 <smb>		:)
16:20 <beisner>		is this the real smb? [-.-]
16:20 <smb>		how do you think about the real smb?
16:21 <beisner>		does this smb bot have #vote?
16:21 <beisner>		ok anyway, any discussion re: libvirt xen init issue?
16:21 <smb>		beisner, no just for info
16:22 <smb>		I look into it
16:22 <beisner>		thanks smb
16:22 <beisner>		#topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
16:22 <beisner>		i don't think there are any to announce.
16:22 <beisner>		#topic Open Discussion
16:23 <beisner>		(quiet in here)
16:23 * beisner checks network connection
16:23 <beisner>		ok, i think we can all go back to crunch time.
16:23 <beisner>		#topic Announce next meeting date and time
16:24 <beisner>		+1 week, same place, same time.
16:24 <beisner>		thank you all
16:24 <beisner>		#endmeeting
</pre>
