{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** jamespage to send out an email to ubuntu-server about the new template
** daviey update release bugs for quantal
** zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker
* Quantal Development
** Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-server.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

Meeting started by s3h at 16:01:01 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-05-22-16.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review ACTION points from previous
''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+specs?role=drafter   (Daviey, 16:04:06)
''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~james-page/+specs?searchtext=servercloud-q&role=assignee   (Daviey, 16:04:12)
''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~james-page/+specs?searchtext=servercloud-q&role=assignee   (s3h, 16:04:57)
''LINK:'' http://people.canonical.com/~davewalker/delta.html   (Daviey, 16:06:53)
''ACTION:'' zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker  (s3h, 16:07:05)

* Quantal Development

Specs currently under consideration are at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+specs?role=drafter.  If a spec is missing, let Daviey know.

Blueprints which $user is responsible for driving to Approved state can be found at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~$user/+specs?searchtext=servercloud-q&role=assignee.  Please set those which require review to Review state.

Daviey urges now is the time for frantic work on merges.  http://people.canonical.com/~davewalker/delta.html shows the delta with sid.

''ACTION:'' zul to also pull Ursinha into SRU tracker talks  (s3h, 16:08:28)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
''LINK:'' http://people.canonical.com/chucks/libvirt   (s3h, 16:29:37)

* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

* Open Discussion
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionProcess and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMainInclusionRequirements should be reviewed by interested people  (jdstrand, 16:37:18)

There may be interest in having a server team member added to the MIR team.  The idea would be for the server team member to review desktop packages, and vice versa.  Interested server team members are urged to email arosales and Daviey.

''ACTION:'' email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership  (s3h, 16:38:20)
''ACTION:'' arosales to follow up with Ursinha on best approach for blueprint management this cycle  (s3h, 16:46:18)

* Announce next meeting date and time

Tuesday May 29 at 1600 UTC.  right here.

Meeting ended at 16:51:06 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker
* zul to also pull Ursinha into SRU tracker talks
* email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership
* arosales to follow up with Ursinha on best approach for blueprint management this cycle

=== Action items, by person ===

* arosales
* * zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker
* * email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership
* * arosales to follow up with Ursinha on best approach for blueprint management this cycle
* Daviey
* * email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership
* jamespage
* * zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker
* Ursinha
* * zul to also pull Ursinha into SRU tracker talks
* * arosales to follow up with Ursinha on best approach for blueprint management this cycle
* zul
* * zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker
* * zul to also pull Ursinha into SRU tracker talks

=== People present (lines said) ===

* s3h (75)
* SpamapS (56)
* arosales (23)
* zul (22)
* Daviey (19)
* jdstrand (16)
* Ursinha (15)
* rbasak (9)
* jamespage (8)
* smoser (7)
* ubottu (7)
* meetingology (7)
* roaksoax (5)
* smb (4)
* hggdh (4)
* jimbaker` (3)
* m_3 (3)
* lynxman (1)
* utlemming (1)

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 29th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <s3h> #startmeeting
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue May 22 16:01:01 2012 UTC.  The chair is s3h. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[16:01] <s3h> #TOPIC Review ACTION points from previous
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Review ACTION points from previous
[16:02] <s3h> sigh, bad lag
[16:02] <s3h> jamespage to send out an email to ubuntu-server about the new template
[16:02] <jamespage> done
[16:02] <s3h> sweet
[16:02] <s3h> daviey update release bugs for quantal
[16:03] <s3h> Daviey: ^
[16:03]  * utlemming has a conflict
[16:04] <Daviey> hye
[16:04] <Daviey> Hey
[16:04] <Daviey> The spec's which are currently under consideration are:
[16:04] <Daviey> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+specs?role=drafter
[16:04] <Daviey> If there is a spec you are watching that is not on this list, please make it known.
[16:04] <zul> heeeeeylo
[16:04] <Daviey> The Spec's that people are responsible for driving to Approved state are, for example:
[16:04] <Daviey> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~james-page/+specs?searchtext=servercloud-q&role=assignee
[16:04] <Daviey> Note, that 'Assignee' actually means the person responsible for driving the WI *specifications* (and getting the blueprint Approved).. *NOT* necessarily doing the tasks. :)
[16:04] <Daviey> I went through them earlier today, and most are in a pretty good state.  However, please can those that require review (to be Approved), please be set to 'Review' state please.
[16:04] <Daviey> Any questions about Spec state?
[16:04] <roaksoax> o/
[16:04] <s3h> LINK https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~james-page/+specs?searchtext=servercloud-q&role=assignee
[16:04] <Daviey> ^^ obv, switch out james-page for $launchpad-id
[16:04] <s3h> #LINK https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~james-page/+specs?searchtext=servercloud-q&role=assignee
[16:05] <s3h> thanks Daviey
[16:05] <s3h> zul
[16:05] <zul> hmm?
[16:05] <s3h> zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker
[16:05] <zul> havent done yet
[16:05] <arosales> jamespage:  did zul sync up with you?  If not, I'll need to catch up with zul.
[16:05] <arosales> ah ok
[16:05] <arosales> I'll catch up with you later zul
[16:05] <zul> oh no!
[16:06] <s3h> (null)
[16:06] <roaksoax> zul: you can't run.. your knee :P
[16:06] <Daviey> Regarding Development for Quantal... Are people frantically working on Merges?
[16:06] <zul> knee is fine :P
[16:06] <lynxman> o/ (sorry for the tardiness)
[16:06] <SpamapS> Are we not using the bot?
[16:06] <roaksoax> i started working on merges yesterday
[16:06] <s3h> zul: arosales: carry that over?
[16:06] <rbasak> I'm frantically working on the critical path for ARM server and MAAS. I regret I haven't managed to look at blueprints since UDS. And not done any merges :-/
[16:06] <Daviey> I have a report here, showing the delta with *sid*/*unstable*... NOT the default parent series of wheezy/testing:
[16:06] <zul> s3h: yep
[16:06] <Daviey> http://people.canonical.com/~davewalker/delta.html
[16:07] <s3h> #ACTION zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker
[16:07] <meetingology> ACTION: zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker
[16:07] <s3h> ok NOW carrying on :)
[16:07] <s3h> #TOPIC Quantal Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Quantal Development
[16:07] <rbasak> I'd still like to do some merges though if there are any that can wait a couple of weeks. I have an apache2 one in a local branch pending testing.
[16:07] <roaksoax> Daviey: so we should me merging from wheezy?
[16:07] <Ursinha> can I be involved in the SRU tracker discussion, please?
[16:07] <zul> Ursinha: yes since you took over it basically
[16:07] <Ursinha> :)
[16:08] <Daviey> roaksoax: no, but see if there are hits we should be merging.
[16:08] <Ursinha> lol, thanks zul
[16:08] <SpamapS> rbasak: apache2 should be 2.4, right?
[16:08] <s3h> #ACTION zul to also pull Ursinha into SRU tracker talks
[16:08] <meetingology> ACTION: zul to also pull Ursinha into SRU tracker talks
[16:08]  * rbasak looks
[16:08] <SpamapS> wait no
[16:08] <SpamapS> 2.4 is stil in Debian experimental
[16:09] <SpamapS> looks like squeeze will ship w/ 2.2
[16:09] <SpamapS> (which sucks)
[16:09] <SpamapS> But, timing. ;)
[16:09] <rbasak> I just have a 2.2.22-5ubuntu1 prepared, to fix a specific bug
[16:09] <rbasak> quantal is on 2.2.22-1ubuntu1
[16:09] <SpamapS> rbasak: yeah stick with that
[16:09] <SpamapS> we don't want to do the transition before Debian :)
[16:09] <rbasak> :-)
[16:09]  * SpamapS has learned how painful that can be w/ MySQL 5.5
[16:10] <s3h> (null)
[16:10] <s3h> SpamapS: do you mind driving release bugs?
[16:11] <zul> SpamapS:  hah hah :)
[16:11] <SpamapS> eh, uh.. sure.. let me just find that link
[16:11] <s3h> SpamapS: http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
[16:11] <Daviey> ^^ I updated it to Quantal the other day.
[16:12] <Daviey> Still, not very populated.. but that is expected at this point in the cycle.
[16:12] <SpamapS> bug 888123
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 888123 in openjdk-7 (Ubuntu Quantal) "erlang version 14.b.2-dfsg-3ubuntu2 failed to build with openjdk-7" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/888123
[16:12] <SpamapS> jamespage: ^
[16:12] <SpamapS> bug 930916
[16:12] <jamespage> on it - waiting for doko to reappear to check my openjdk-7 fix (its a scary package)
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 930916 in amavisd-new (Ubuntu) "amavis start-stop script fails to stop amavisd" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/930916
[16:12] <SpamapS> The bug I keep procrastinating on. Will try to get some time for it later this week. Busy w/ juju SRU to precise today.
[16:13] <jamespage> SpamapS, is that SRU worthy?
[16:13] <SpamapS> Yes
[16:13] <SpamapS> it was in precise's release bugs too :-P
[16:13] <jamespage> I could pick it up if that would help
[16:13] <SpamapS> jamespage: sure. take it. :) Its a very simple fix.
[16:13] <jamespage> SpamapS, ack
[16:13] <SpamapS> bug 974584
[16:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 974584 in sysvinit (Ubuntu Quantal) "Semaphores cannot be created in lxc container" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/974584
[16:13] <s3h> I'm waiting to see if someone speaks up there, else I'll aks for the patch to be sponsored tomorrow
[16:14] <SpamapS> woot
[16:14] <SpamapS> bug 1001846
[16:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1001846 in cobbler (Ubuntu) "cobbler fails to install with error code 1" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1001846
[16:15] <roaksoax> so that seems to be a corner case and I've requested for more information even though the proposed fix makes sense
[16:15] <SpamapS> bug 880339
[16:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 880339 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Precise) "AppArmor profile needs update" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/880339
[16:15] <SpamapS> I believe that one is well understood and is actually a bug in dh_apparmor
[16:16] <SpamapS> In some cases, /etc/apparmor.d/local/usr.sbin.mysqld is removed because of the transfer of ownership from 5.1 -> 5.5
[16:16] <SpamapS> Have a patch, just need to apply it (got stalled because apparmor was FTBFS, but that got fixed recently)
[16:16] <SpamapS> bug 901881
[16:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 901881 in glance (Ubuntu) "nova and glance should depend on python-keystone" [Low,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/901881
[16:17] <SpamapS> zul: ^^
[16:17] <zul> SpamapS: ill double check
[16:18] <SpamapS> I see we have the MIR's listed there too... we should probably track those
[16:18] <zul> new libvirt is pending a MIR btw
[16:18] <Daviey> Now is also a good time to raise any issues NOT being tracked on that list. :)
[16:18] <s3h> and that MIR is not on ts list
[16:19] <s3h> (dwarves-dfsg)
[16:19] <SpamapS> zookeeper, I think, is approved.. but we haven't added the depends yet because it was basically done for juju
[16:19] <s3h> netcf should also be on that list
[16:19] <s3h> is that accomplished with a tag?
[16:19] <zul> do we have a server team member on the MIR team?
[16:19] <SpamapS> no, but it really wouldn't matter. The MIR process is bottlenecked on security
[16:20] <zul> i mean after the bottleneck
[16:20] <SpamapS> after the bottleneck there's nothing to do but seed/upload/etc.
[16:20] <Daviey> zul: we do not.
[16:21] <zul> SpamapS:  i mean when the bottleneck is done someone the server team can poke and do our bidding
[16:21] <zul> but anyways
[16:21] <s3h> care to discuss in open discussion?
[16:21] <zul> sure
[16:21] <SpamapS> zul: we don't need to be on the MIR team to do anything after the security review is done.
[16:21]  * jdstrand looked at the queue and doesn't see security team subscribed to anything
[16:21] <s3h> arosales: Daviey: do we wannt to o through blueprints at this point?
[16:21] <jdstrand> (for MIRs)
[16:21] <SpamapS> zul: once that is done, the bug is approved, and any core dev can go edit the seeds or upload a depending package
[16:21] <s3h> ruh ro
[16:21] <jdstrand> SpamapS: what MIR(s) are you referring to?
[16:22] <arosales> s3h: I think the main points Daviey already discussed
[16:22] <SpamapS> jdstrand: I'm more discussing the general process and the fact that adding MIR team members would just overload your team more.
[16:22] <jdstrand> oh
[16:22] <arosales> ie getting blueprints updated, correct status, and approved
[16:22] <s3h> arosales: thanks, great
[16:22] <jdstrand> well, I was promised it wouldn't be like last time ;)
[16:22] <SpamapS> jdstrand: "Words are wind, Jon Snow"
[16:23] <jdstrand> heh
[16:23] <SpamapS> ;)
[16:23] <s3h> moving on then
[16:23] <SpamapS> I don't see any big MIR's this cycle
[16:23] <s3h> thanks SpamapS!
[16:23] <s3h> #TOPIC Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:23] <zul> SpamapS: i do
[16:23] <zul> but anyways
[16:23] <jdstrand> SpamapS, zul: actually, doko and I discussed adding members to the ubuntu-mir team. we think it would be a good idea if someone else wanted to help out (beyond security audits)
[16:24] <s3h> zul: do you want to discuss that now?
[16:24] <SpamapS> jdstrand: sure lets discuss that in the open discussion section
[16:24]  * jdstrand nods
[16:24] <zul> s3h: no lets continue later
[16:24] <s3h> ok, any events coming up?
[16:25] <arosales> m_3 @ gluecon 23-24 of May
[16:25] <SpamapS> m_3: you still going to gluecon?
[16:25] <m_3> submitting for the aws/ec2 conference in November
[16:25] <jimbaker`> i'm at usenix config mgmt summit to discuss juju on june 12
[16:25] <SpamapS> jimbaker`: cool!
[16:25] <m_3> SpamapS: they rejected the talks... but they're local so maybe I can get a lightning talk in
[16:26] <jimbaker`> SpamapS, thanks, this will be my first time presenting juju in public, so fingers crossed ;)
[16:26] <s3h> cool, thanks
[16:26] <s3h> #TPIC Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:26] <jimbaker`> m_3, lightning talks for gluecon are tonight, so doable
[16:26] <hggdh> hi
[16:27] <hggdh> I have been working the last week in Boston, so I have no updates.
[16:27] <SpamapS> m_3: and no charm school?
[16:27] <hggdh> But I will answer any questions ;-)
[16:27] <hggdh> ..
[16:27] <m_3> SpamapS: nope... hopefully next year... it'd be a good crowd for at least an intro juju talk
[16:27] <s3h> any questions for hggdh?
[16:28] <s3h> thanks hggdh.  moving on,
[16:28] <s3h> #TOPIC Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:28] <smb> Hello...
[16:28] <smb> Trying to understand bug 999755... slowly. Apart from that... other questions?
[16:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 999755 in linux (Ubuntu) "Kernel crash on EC2 m1.large instances" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/999755
[16:28] <smb> ..
[16:29] <s3h> smb: you might wnat to test zul's proposed libvirt merge for quantal against xen
[16:29] <s3h> http://people.canonical.com/chucks/libvirt
[16:29] <zul> ~chucks/libvirt
[16:29] <smb> s3h, Yes, I guess I should...
[16:29] <s3h> yeah that
[16:30] <s3h> any other questions for smb?  if not...
[16:30] <s3h> #TOPIC Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:30] <rbasak> Nothing to report. Work on ARM server continues. Any questions for me?
[16:31] <s3h> sounds like no, thanks rbasak
[16:31] <s3h> #TOPIC Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Open Discussion
[16:32] <SpamapS> jdstrand: so, despite what I thought, the  MIR team actually *could* use a member from the server team?
[16:33] <jdstrand> SpamapS: yes!
[16:33] <jdstrand> how it would probably work though is that the server team member would review non-server stuff and the desktop member would review server stuff (to avoid conflict of interest). but that is an implementation detail
[16:34] <SpamapS> Yeah that sounds like a good idea.
[16:34] <jdstrand> there is certainly enough work to go around and I feel it would benefit not only the mir team, but all teams trying to pursue MIRs
[16:34] <SpamapS> arosales: maybe you and Daviey can work out who might be available for such a post?
[16:34] <s3h> who all would be interested?
[16:34] <SpamapS> Daviey: ^^
[16:34]  * SpamapS steps backward
[16:34] <SpamapS> I have enough :)
[16:35] <arosales> any volunteers ?
[16:35] <s3h> ACTION Daviey and arosales to work a list of who is available for MIR team
[16:35] <jdstrand> (as an aside, we have work items on the security team surrounding improving the audit process as well)
[16:35] <zul> he/she doesnt need to be core-dev do they?
[16:35] <s3h> I might be interested.  if i don't have to be cored-ev
[16:35] <s3h> or be able to speell
[16:35] <zul> spelling is a must ;)
[16:35] <zul> so i am out as well
[16:35] <SpamapS> s3h: you're a server dev, are you not?
[16:36] <s3h> yes
[16:36] <jdstrand> well, they all currently are, but technically no because it is up to the filer to adjust the seeds, etc
[16:36] <SpamapS> s3h: I think that shows enough packaging know-how
[16:36] <jdstrand> but the person must be able to do pretty thorough packaging reviews. core-dev just happens to demonstrate that
[16:36] <s3h> let's not focus on me :)  perahps whoeer is interested should email Daviey/arosales
[16:37] <jdstrand> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionProcess and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMainInclusionRequirements should be reviewed by interested people
[16:37] <s3h> and turn on their spell checker
[16:37] <s3h> ok, anything actionable here?
[16:38] <s3h> #ACTION email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership
[16:38] <meetingology> ACTION: email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership
[16:38] <SpamapS> s3h: you forgot the #
[16:38] <SpamapS> on the first one
[16:38] <s3h> do you think we need both actions?
[16:39] <arosales> I also assume a couple of of rounds of MIR can help with core-dev applicaton
[16:39] <arosales> I am sure the MIR team would welcome help
[16:39] <rbasak> What is required for membership?
[16:39] <arosales> able to do pretty thorough packaging reviews
[16:40] <s3h> ok shall we move on?  any further topics?
[16:40] <rbasak> Is contributing developer a requirement for example?
[16:40] <arosales> and knowledgeable about  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionProcess and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMainInclusionRequirements
[16:40] <arosales> s3h: one other topic
[16:40] <arosales> rbasak: jdstrand would know for sure
[16:40] <SpamapS> rbasak: you're about ready for a server dev application tho.. so I wouldn't worry too much about not having upload rights "today" :)
[16:41] <arosales> s3h: Everyone comfortable with integrating the blueprint template jamespage emailed out?
[16:41] <arosales> Also documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BlueprintSpec
[16:41] <s3h> I followed it with my blueprints and liked it
[16:41] <jdstrand> well, actually I wouldn't. I kind of inherited my position :) if you are core-dev, I don't think there is any problem. if you aren't, I think the existing team would have to talk to the candidate
[16:41] <s3h> what do others think?
[16:42] <arosales> thanks for giving it a try s3h
[16:42] <jamespage> if anyone needs any help interpreting the template into their blueprints please feel free to ping me
[16:43] <arosales> or ping in ubuntu-server
[16:43] <smoser> for reference: http://comments.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.server/6138
[16:43] <arosales> be great if server team had some solid blueprint documentation with this template
[16:44] <s3h> so I personally am backing my bp's in lp +junk.  What are others doing?  Do we set up a team to combine all the blueprints?
[16:44] <s3h> (as per smoser's suggestion)
[16:44] <arosales> I think we still need to iron that out and perhaps sync up with Ursinha
[16:44] <smoser> Ursinha was working on some things to make this better integrated with launchpad.
[16:44] <arosales> s3h: good point to bring up though
[16:45] <smoser> ie, to give a comment field and history of work items.
[16:45] <s3h> Ursinha: do you have any update on that?
[16:45] <arosales> s3h: you can give me an action to follow up with Ursinha on the best approach for this cycle.
[16:45] <smoser> the issue with you doing that on your own, s3h is that someone will just edit the whiteboard manually, and then either lose their changes, or not be able to commit to your +junk branch to change it properly
[16:45] <s3h> and is there anything in that work that would block creating the ubuntu-server-blueprints lp group
[16:46] <SpamapS> Its worth noting that any branch can be attached to any blueprint..
[16:46] <s3h> #ACTION arosales to follow up with Ursinha on best approach for blueprint management this cycle
[16:46] <meetingology> ACTION: arosales to follow up with Ursinha on best approach for blueprint management this cycle
[16:46] <smoser> well, s3h, urshina's proposal would largely mitigate the need for that.
[16:46] <SpamapS> so if we do an auto-sync thing from branch -> BP we can also link the branch, and make a project, like 'ubuntu-blueprints' to keep them all in
[16:46] <s3h> smoser: I get emails whenever they do, so I can udpate it in my copy
[16:46] <SpamapS> this sounds like an implementation discussion tho :-P
[16:46] <s3h> smoser: sure, but in the meantime we risk losing our whiteboard contents
[16:46] <Ursinha> there are two things that can be done
[16:47] <SpamapS> not something for this meeting. :p
[16:47] <Ursinha> okay :P
[16:47] <smoser> there she is!
[16:47] <smoser> good. please discuss, and lets find a solution for this.
[16:47] <Ursinha> thanks god I have hilight for misspells :P
[16:47] <arosales> Ursinha: I catch up with you off-line
[16:47] <Ursinha> sure
[16:47] <Ursinha> first: using a bot that parses email, and also parses a message in the whiteboard explaining the change
[16:48] <Ursinha> then the bot removes that and we have a page somewhere else looking like the bug activity pagwe in launchpad
[16:48] <Ursinha> second approach, is changing launchpad to include blueprint activity
[16:48] <s3h> Ursinha: thanks
[16:48] <Ursinha> second one in way cleaner, but it will take a bit of time
[16:49] <s3h> can you send an email to the m-l after you and arosales discus?
[16:49] <Ursinha> I'm currently working on it, but don't want to wait for it to finish to start doing something
[16:49] <Ursinha> sure
[16:49] <s3h> thanks.  any other topics?
[16:49] <arosales> thanks for working on that Ursinha
[16:49] <Ursinha> arosales, it's my pleasure
[16:50] <jamespage> I've been doing some work on the bug triage workflow
[16:50] <s3h> ah!
[16:50] <jamespage> should have something for you all to review this week
[16:50] <s3h> jamespage: awesome, thanks
[16:50] <Ursinha> jamespage, awesome :)
[16:50] <s3h> #TOPIC Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:50] <s3h> Tuesday May 29 at 1600 UTC.  right here.
[16:51] <s3h> #endmeeting
</pre>
