{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== BETA Please don't edit I want to discuss with jcastro regards Paul O'Malley ==

=== Took place from Mon 28 April - Sat 3 May on IRC in #ubuntu-classroom on Freenode. ===
Simplified Logs from the week long open community event showcasing Ubuntu held on IRC #ubuntu-classroom. Logs here have been edited to remove background traffic and have been synced. Please let [ompaul] know if there are errors. Full logs are <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/|here]]</nowiki>.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| '''Mon 28th Apr'''
| '''Tue 29th Apr'''
| '''Wed 30th Apr'''
| '''Thu 1 May'''
| '''Fri 2nd May'''
| '''Sat 3rd May'''
|-
| '''15.00 UTC'''
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Welcome|Welcome to Ubuntu Open Week!]]</nowiki>'' - Jono Bacon
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/PackagingA|Packaging 101 - Session 1]]</nowiki>'' - Daniel Holbach
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Xubuntu|Xubuntu]]</nowiki>'' - Cody Somerville
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/AskMark|Ask Mark]]</nowiki>'' - Mark Shuttleworth
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Bughelper|Bughelper - Making Bug Work Easier]]</nowiki>'' - Markus Korn
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/UnwindStacktraces|Unwinding Stacktraces]]</nowiki>'' - Emmet Hikory
|-
| '''16.00 UTC'''
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/QApiuparts|QA: Using piuparts to test your packages]]</nowiki>'' - Lars Wirzenius
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/PackagingB|Packaging 101 - Session 2]]</nowiki>'' - Daniel Holbach
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/CommunityQA|Community Q+A]]</nowiki>'' - Jono Bacon
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/EeePC|Ubuntu on the Eee PC]]</nowiki>'' - Christer Edwards
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Bughelper|Bughelper - Making Bug Work Easier]]</nowiki>'' part 2 - Markus Korn
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Virtualization|Virtualization]]</nowiki>'' - Soren Hansen
|-
| '''17.00 UTC'''
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/ReportBugs1|Reporting Bugs]]</nowiki>'' - Brian Murray
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/MobileEdition|Ubuntu Mobile Edition - An introduction and Q+A]]</nowiki>'' - Adilson Oliveira
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/MobileTesting|Intro to Mobile Testing]]</nowiki>'' - Chris Gregan & Dave Morley
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/PreseedingUbiquity|Preseeding d-i / Ubiquity]]</nowiki>'' - Evan Dandrea
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/GeneralQnA|Ubuntu general Q+A]]</nowiki>'' - Jorge Castro
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/ReportBugs2|Reporting Bugs]]</nowiki>'' - Brian Murray
|-
| '''18.00 UTC'''
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/TriageBugs1|Ubuntu Bugsquad + Triaging Bugs]]</nowiki>'' - Pedro Villavicencio
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/PackageMerging|Merging Packages 101]]</nowiki>'' - Nicolas Valc√°rcel
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/ExtensionsPackaging|Packaging Firefox Extensions]]</nowiki>'' - Alexander Sack
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/ImproveX|Make X rock!]]</nowiki>'' - Bryce Harrington
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/ISOTesting|Ubuntu Iso Testing]]</nowiki>'' - Henrik Omma & David Morley
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/TriageBugs2|Ubuntu Bugsquad + Triaging Bugs]]</nowiki>'' - Pedro Villavicencio
|-
| '''19.00 UTC'''
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/UpstreamKernels|Building Upstream Kernels]]</nowiki>'' - Leann Ogasawara
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/LaunchpadPPAs|Using Launchpad PPAs]]</nowiki>'' - Celso Providelo
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Artwork|Ubuntu Artwork]]</nowiki>'' - Ken Wimer
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/DesktopFuture|The Future of the Ubuntu Desktop]]</nowiki>'' - Ted Gould
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/PackageJams|Running a Packaging Jam]]</nowiki>'' - Rick Harding
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/LoCos|LoCo Teams]]</nowiki>'' - Nick Ali
|-
| '''20.00 UTC'''
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Kubuuntu|Kubuntu Development]]</nowiki>'' - Richard Johnson
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/ServerTeam|Intro to the Ubuntu Server Team]]</nowiki>'' - Mathias Gug
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/KDE4|KDE 4]]</nowiki>'' - Richard Johnson
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Forums|Community Support with Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>'' - Mike Basinger
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Wubi|Wubi]]</nowiki>'' - Agostino Russo
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/hardwareDB|Hardware Debugging and Diagnostics]]</nowiki>'' - Michael Anderson
|-
| '''21.00 UTC'''
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/Bazaar|Bazaar for packaging]]</nowiki>'' -- Robert Collins & James Westby
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/SecurityTeam|Ubuntu Security Team - Intro and Q+A]]</nowiki>'' - Kees Cook
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/ProducingPodcasts|Producing Podcasts in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>'' - Alan Pope
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/PythonPackaging|Python Packaging]]</nowiki>'' - Emilio Pozuelo Monfort
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/DocumentationTeam|Ubuntu Documentation Project]]</nowiki>'' - Jordan Mantha
| ''<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekhardy/OpenWeekFeedback|Improving OpenWeek/Feedback]]</nowiki>'' - Jorge Castro
|}
