{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** jamespage to look into aligning release team and server team trackign reports
      - No progress so far, will follow up with Ursinha next week.
* Quantal Development
** Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/group/topic-quantal-servercloud-overview.html
** Review obsolete configs found by QA: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2012-September/001926.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
** CFP deadlines
** SoCal Linux Expo (Deadline: Dec. 10) http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

** ACTION: jamespage and Ursinha to look into aligning release team and server team tracking reports 
** ACTION: jamespage to provide info to hggdh about how to run iSCSI and MAAS tests for the ISO
   
===== Release Bugs =====

* Launchpad bug 1017847 in qemu-linaro (Ubuntu) "qemu segfaults when creating an armhf container on an amd64 host" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1017847
** hallyn will try to reproduce the issue again, added to his list.
* Launchpad bug 1047520 in php5 (Ubuntu Quantal) "NEWS and release notes need updating" [Critical,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1047520
** SpamapS looked and said it was already Fix Released.
* Launchpad bug 1049177 in maas (Ubuntu Quantal) "isc-dhcp-server apparmor profile should have include ".d" " [Critical,Fix Committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1049177
** smoser said the fix is already on a PPA.
* Launchpad bug 1044632 in juju (Ubuntu Quantal) "Modify format 2 so that it supports raw strings" [Critical,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1044632
** jimbaker said the fix is part of the 0.5.2 release of juju. SpamapS said he has a final drop of Juju code planned for later this week.

Daviey asked SpamapS if any news on using ubuntu-cloud lxc template for local provider. SpamapS said the branch is proposed and in review today.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

hggdh reported iSCSI and MAAS tests didn't run for beta 2 ISO, so he assumed server team wants him to run it, and asked for information on how to do it. 

He reported found an easy way to have the ISO dns-server tests to actually execute, and will be proposing a merge soon for USIT. 

He also reported that MAAS now seem to support virsh, but there are not docs on how to fill in the fields on the "Add Node" screen, and the "Doc" button on the page does not even talk about virsh. 
roaksoax said we would need to check that with iupstream as he's only worked with IPMI. smoser haven't tested current maas with virsh, but it is on the list of things he'd like to know how to do.

hggdh should catch up with Daview after the meeting.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====

smb reported he's getting somewhere with bug 1021471, was compiling a new test kernel for that. Should be on people by the time the meeting ends.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, October 9th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. Chair will be rbasak.

=== Log ===
<pre>
<Ursinha> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
<meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct  2 16:00:07 2012 UTC.  The chair is Ursinha. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
<meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
<Ursinha> hello all
<Ursinha> are you all here?
<SpamapS> no
<SpamapS> but keep going
<Ursinha> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* jimbaker (~jbaker@canonical/jimbaker) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<Ursinha> * jamespage to look into aligning release team and server team trackign reports
* smb (~smb@p5B2E4311.dip.t-dialin.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 jacob jalcine james__ james_w jamespage JanC jdstrand jfi jibel jimbaker jjohansen jodh Joeb454 JonathanD jono JoseeAntonioR joshuahoover jpds jrib jsalisbury jussi 
 jacob jalcine james__ james_w jamespage JanC jdstrand jfi jibel jimbaker jjohansen jodh Joeb454 JonathanD jono JoseeAntonioR joshuahoover jpds jrib jsalisbury jussi 
<jamespage> Ursinha, golly -is that still on the list....
<Ursinha> jamespage, hehe... this one involves me, right?
* dhillon-v10 (b85a19fa@gateway/web/freenode/ip.184.90.25.250) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<jamespage> yep
<jamespage> and as we are sooo bad at communicating with each other...
<Ursinha> [action] jamespage and Ursinha to look into aligning release team and server team tracking reports
<meetingology> ACTION: jamespage and Ursinha to look into aligning release team and server team tracking reports
<Ursinha> it's mine too now :)
 jacob jalcine james__ james_w jamespage JanC 
<Ursinha> we can catch up tomorrow, will try to find a spot for us to talk
<Ursinha> #topic Quantal Development
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Quantal Development
<Ursinha> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseSchedule
<Ursinha> #subtopic Release Bugs 
<Ursinha> I don't think this works?
<Ursinha> #link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
<Ursinha> so, let's see
* ejat has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
* ejat (~fenris@ubuntu/member/fenris-) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<JoseeAntonioR> Ursinha: you won't get a reply for link, or for subtopic
<Ursinha> that's different
<Ursinha> thanks JoseeAntonioR 
<Ursinha> I'm looking at the bugs 
* ejat has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
* roaksoax (~wo@ubuntu/member/roaksoax) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
* utlemming (~ben@67.199.187.66) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<Ursinha> so, there is bug 1017847
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 1017847 in qemu-linaro (Ubuntu) "qemu segfaults when creating an armhf container on an amd64 host" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1017847
<Ursinha> are we working on it for this cycle? it has the rls-q-incoming tag
<Ursinha> serge isn't here
<hallyn> sure i am
<hallyn> last i tried i couldn't reproduce due to other failures - i should try again...
<Ursinha> ah!
<Ursinha> :)
<Ursinha> hallyn, if we're not fixing, we might want to remove the tag or add another one to say we're not fixing this cycle
<Ursinha> if is a valid issue, of course
* mmrazik is now known as mmrazik|otp
<hallyn> the issue definately was valid at one point
* ejat (~fenris@2001:5c0:1000:a::132d) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
* ejat has quit (Changing host)
* ejat (~fenris@ubuntu/member/fenris-) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
* cielak (~cielak@ubuntu/member/cielak) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<Ursinha> right.. 
<hallyn> (added to my list)
<Ursinha> we have two critical bugs, one is fix committed by smoser 
<Ursinha> other is critical, SpamapS set it to critical
<Ursinha> bug 1047520
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 1047520 in php5 (Ubuntu Quantal) "NEWS and release notes need updating" [Critical,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1047520
<Ursinha> SpamapS, are you fixing that?
<smoser> what is the one that is fix-committed by me ?
<Ursinha> bug 1049177
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 1049177 in isc-dhcp (Ubuntu Precise) "isc-dhcp-server apparmor profile should have include ".d" " [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1049177
<Ursinha> the quantal task
<Ursinha> for maas
<smoser> roaksoax, should that be fix-released in maas ?
<smoser> ie, do we have a maas package that uses its own dhcp server?
* bladernr_ has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
<SpamapS> Ursinha: yes I'll take a look at that
* bladernr_ (~bladernr@nc-76-6-150-186.dhcp.embarqhsd.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<roaksoax> smoser: i think we do, i haven't looked at the latest changes made to that package
<roaksoax> (maas-dhcp(
<Ursinha> thanks Sp4rKy 
<Ursinha> oops
<Ursinha> SpamapS, even
<Ursinha> (sorry Sp4rKy)
<Sp4rKy> :)
<smoser> Ursinha, well, either way, its under control
<smoser> (it is fixed in daily ppa)
<Ursinha> cool
<Ursinha> do you have any issues you want to bring into attention?
<SpamapS> bug 1047520 is actually already Fix Released
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 1047520 in php5 (Ubuntu Quantal) "NEWS and release notes need updating" [Critical,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1047520
<SpamapS> so, woot :)
<Ursinha> cool :)
<Ursinha> I found another critical bug: bug 1044632
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 1044632 in juju (Ubuntu Quantal) "Modify format 2 so that it supports raw strings" [Critical,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1044632
<Daviey> OT: /me chimes in that he is only partially here atm.
<jimbaker> Ursinha, that's part of the 0.5.2 release of juju
<Ursinha> jimbaker, I ask because it's targeted to the release, only wanted to know if that bug is going to make it or if it's going to be sru'd later
<jimbaker> SpamapS is currently working on a micro release that will be in a sru
<Ursinha> ah, right
<jimbaker> actually bad phrased - 0.5.2 is that micro release, then to included in an upcoming sru
<Ursinha> so we might want to target that to quantal-updates,right?
<Daviey> SpamapS: any news on using ubuntu-cloud lxc template for local provider ?
<jimbaker> Ursinha, that's a sru for precise. it should be part of the final for quantal
<Ursinha> jimbaker, right, thanks for the info
<Ursinha> I'll talk to people about bugs outside the meeting, otherwise this will take forever
<Ursinha> will move on to blueprints
<Ursinha> #subtopic Blueprints
<Ursinha> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html
<Ursinha> the link that Daviey hates
<Ursinha> that link is indeed not nice if you want to be objective :/
<SpamapS> Daviey: yes, branch is proposed and in review today actually
* ejat has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<SpamapS> jimbaker: format 2 does not exist in 0.5.x
<SpamapS> jimbaker: that bug is only relevant in 0.6
<SpamapS> Ursinha: we don't need to target that at quantal-updates. I have a final drop of Juju code planned for later this week.
 Sarvatt ScottK Seveas Sp4rKy SpamapS StevenR 
<Ursinha> SpamapS, awesome then
* SpamapS apologizes for lagging :-P
<Ursinha> :)
<Ursinha> that link is somehow impossible to follow up, the blueprints one, so please remember to update yours if haven't already
<Ursinha> I'll move on
<Ursinha> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
<Ursinha> * CFP deadlines
<Ursinha>  ** SoCal Linux Expo (Deadline: Dec. 10) http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp
* laoshi (~flemming@85.218.198.61) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<Ursinha> any other events?
<Ursinha> I'll take that as a no :)
<Ursinha> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
 hallyn head_victim henrix hggdh highvoltage huats 
<hggdh> hi
<Ursinha> hi hggdh, any updates for us?
<hggdh> just a question from me -- the iSCSI and MAAS tests for the ISO -- it seems you want us to run it
<hggdh> we need to have the details on how to do it, can you please pass them over?
<hggdh> and, additionally, I found an easy way to have the ISO dns-server tests to actually execute, I will be proposing a merge soon for USIT
<hggdh> ..
<Ursinha> who asked you that, hggdh?
<hggdh> Ursinha: nobody asked us that, but then the server team did not run them on the Beta 2 tests
<Ursinha> ah, oops
<Ursinha> Daviey, who could provide the info to hggdh to run these tests?
<jamespage> hggdh, I can pass you info on the iscsi tests
<hggdh> oh, an additional point on MAAS
<Ursinha> [action] jamespage to provide info to hggdh about how to run iSCSI and MAAS tests for the ISO
<meetingology> ACTION: jamespage to provide info to hggdh about how to run iSCSI and MAAS tests for the ISO
<hggdh> it now seems to support virsh, but there is no docs on how to fill in the fields on the "Add Node" screen
* herton (~herton@unaffiliated/herton) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
* rtg (~rtg@host-174-45-44-47.hln-mt.client.bresnan.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<hggdh> and the "Doc" button on the page does not even talk about virsh...
<Ursinha> roaksoax or smoser, ^^
* emma is now known as em
<roaksoax> i think we would need to check that with iupstream I've only worked with IPMI
<roaksoax> but should be pretty straight forward
<smoser> i've not tested current maas with virsh
<smoser> but it is on the list of things i'd like to know how to do
<Daviey> Ursinha: hggdh should grab me out of meeting :)
<Ursinha> cool :)
<Ursinha> is that enough information for you, hggdh?
<hggdh> yes it is :-)
<Ursinha> great :)
* dholbach has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
<Ursinha> moving on, then
* hggdh prepares the net to grab Daviey
<Ursinha> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
<Ursinha> hello smb
<smb> I don't have much to report right now... I hope I am finally homing in on bug 1021471. Just compiling a new test kernel for that right now. Should be on people by the time this meeting ends...
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 1021471 in linux (Ubuntu Quantal) "clone() hang when creating new network namespace (dmesg show unregister_netdevice: waiting for lo to become free. Usage count = 2)" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1021471
<smb> ..
<SpamapS> smb: thanks for fighting to get that going. Its quite important for juju. :)
<SpamapS> and really for LXC users
<Daviey> +1
<Ursinha> great, thanks smb 
<Ursinha> any questions for smb?
<Ursinha> okay, moving on
<Ursinha> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
<rbasak> Quantal on ARM is looking good. MAAS on ARM is almost done too - all the critical pieces are written now, appear to be working and are in various stages in the pipeline for landing in the next week.
<rbasak> Any questions for me?
<Ursinha> maybe not :)
<Ursinha> thanks rbasak 
<Ursinha> #topic Open Discussion
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Open Discussion
<Ursinha> discuss!
<Ursinha> you are making me sad today, people
<Ursinha> :)
<zul> gee thanks
<Ursinha> lol
* mercsniper_ (~mercsnipe@corp.bah.com) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<Ursinha> no one is into discussing today :)
<Ursinha> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
<Ursinha> sooo
<SpamapS> Ursinha: thanks!!
<SpamapS> oh damn I thought that was EOM
<Ursinha> Next meeting will take place Oct 9th, same bat-channel
<Ursinha> who's next in the line
<Ursinha> if that is a line, so jimbaker is our next chair
<Ursinha> jimbaker, is that ok for you?
<Ursinha> that should do :P
<Ursinha> #endmeeting
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
<meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Oct  2 16:45:40 2012 UTC.
<meetingology> Minutes (wiki):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-10-02-16.00.moin.txt
<meetingology> Minutes (html):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-10-02-16.00.html
<Ursinha> thanks people
* toddy (~torsten@ubuntu/member/toddyhb) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<SpamapS> FYI, jim did last week, so its from the other end
<SpamapS> Ursinha: anyway, ^5 well done, thanks again
* SpamapS (~clint@ubuntu/member/spamaps) has left #ubuntu-meeting
* bjf (~bradf@static-50-53-107-235.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<Ursinha> so next week is rbasak :)
</pre>
