{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
                       hey guys. seems like mhz and klepas won't make it, so
12:00 artnay           let's start with an introduction. have you updated
                       your wiki info?
12:00 Riddell          kubuntu ultra?
=== Viper550 fires aptitude
12:00 Viper550         KDM theme...
12:00 Riddell          Viper550: got a URL?
12:01 manicka          not lately
12:01 Viper550         ps. kubuntu-default-settings is not installed.
12:01 Viper550         http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=29331
12:02 artnay           https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTodoProposal - does
                       anyone have suggestions on structure?
                       Viper550: you must have installed kdm at some point
12:02 Riddell          from packages, else you wouldn't have a kdmrc that
                       pointed to the kubuntu theme
12:02 Viper550         I did install KDM, I said that earlier if you wern't
                       listening
12:03 Riddell          well it depends on kubuntu-default-settings so you
                       should have the kubuntu kdm theme installed too
=== libervisco [n=daniel@ms219-2-gprs01.net.vip.hr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                       No, it didn't install any Kubuntu stuff, everything I
12:04 Viper550         have is from Base KDE 3.5 (Started as 3.4, then
                       apt-get upgraded to 3.5 from the repos)
12:04 Viper550         It's either a miracle, or APT was confused
12:05 Riddell          spooky
12:05 artnay     shall we start by having a wiki discussion?
12:05 Viper550   Spooky, I got KDE and KDM, and it didn't even give me Kubuntu stuff, oh yeah the new Kubuntu
                 wall is simliar to the KDE 3.5 one for some reason.
12:05 bachler    hi all
12:06 lukacu     hello
12:06 artnay     hey bachler
12:06 Viper550   Maybe we should start on Kubuntu first
12:06 bachler    sry to be late
12:06 artnay     Viper550: and which part?
12:06 Viper550   We were just discussing my APT weirdness, let's talk KDM first
12:07 Viper550   You can guess where I got that idea from... :)
12:07 artnay     every *buntu should have its own Artwork subcategory. to do that, there's also need for
                 unified structure between these *buntuArtwork pages
12:09 artnay     could we discuss about that structure? does anyone have suggestions as tree view lists?
12:09 Viper550   Maybe our default Kubuntu kdm should be based off this:
                 http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=24365
=== mhz_idle [n=mhz_chil@pc-252-84-215-201.cm.vtr.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:09 artnay     hey mhz_idle, you made it ;)
12:10 mhz_idle   not really, artnay sorry
12:10 mhz_idle   please read -artwork :(
12:10 artnay     mhz_idle: do you have that list?
12:10 Viper550   Oh wait, are we just discussing Wiki structure now, if yes, I will hide under KWall
12:11 bachler    are we discussing wiki structure or kde/kdm?
12:11 artnay     Viper550: that is the most important case at the moment. we can't expect people to
                 participate if they are unable to find needed information
12:11 Viper550   Okay...
=== Viper550 hides under KWall, keeps ksirc on
12:12 artnay     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTeam
=== Viper550 made up the Kwall thing
=== trevorv [n=trevorv@81-178-255-160.dsl.pipex.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== volvoguy [n=aaron@pcp09060059pcs.rocsth01.mi.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:13 artnay     when it comes to different *buntus, that page should tell which projects a person is attached
                 to
12:13 lukacu     hi volvoguy
12:13 volvoguy   howdy all! what'd i miss? :)
12:13 artnay     so, after the discussion, could you all fill something like Kubuntu/KWin after your name
12:14 artnay     that would help a lot
=== ptomes [n=chatzill@chb-84-242-95-26.nat.karneval.cz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:15 artnay     what do you think? have you all read the context under /Artwork?
=== Yetzero [n=yetzero@113-10-198.adsl.cust.tie.cl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:15 volvoguy   artnay, heading there now to catch up.
12:15 artnay     I don't want to have a monolog here :)
12:15 bachler    i have read it
=== nomed [n=debaser@host52-58.pool8260.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:16 volvoguy   ok. i'm there.
12:16 artnay     what topics would you like to discuss? I know there's lots of things listed, so can we take
                 the most important ones on table
12:16 Viper550   I'm where? artworktodo list?
=== klepas [n=klepas@203-213-31-142.static.tpgi.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:17 klepas     sorry I'm late :)
12:17 lukacu     klepas, hi
12:17 libervisco hey klepas
12:17 Viper550   What wiki page are we discussing? /artwork ?
12:18 artnay     Viper550: mainly /*buntuArtwork
12:18 artnay     /Artwork isn't that challenging
12:19 artnay     can we have a unified structure? are there people from Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu, Xubuntu?
12:19 Riddell    I'm from Kubuntu
12:19 klepas     i think a unified structure would serve us best
12:19 manicka    <--Ubuntu
12:19 artnay     *nods for KDE*
                 artnay, one thing that was never clear to me was who we answered to. we can talk about all
12:19 volvoguy   this stuff until we're blue in the face, but for the last release, all my contact with
                 canonical people fell on deaf ears.
12:19 volvoguy   <-- Ubuntu
12:19 trevorv    I'm a Xubuntu user, not developer, but I can do some work on the wiki
12:19 bachler    why don't Kubuntu, Edubuntu and Xubuntu adopt from the main Ubuntu page?
12:20 bachler    or wathever layout is the best
12:20 manicka    <--edubuntu as well
12:20 volvoguy   bachler, perhaps subpages rather than seperate pages?
12:20 artnay     volvoguy: did you contact them by mail?
12:20 volvoguy   artnay, yeah.
12:20 lukacu     <-- Ubuntu
12:20 Riddell    volvoguy: some of the ubuntu artwork is contracted out professionally so there's an issue of
                 balancing community with the paid for stuff
12:20 Riddell    Kubuntu doesn't have that issue of course, I'm very welcome of all contributions :)
12:21 Viper550   What about some of my works that I put under the mailing list?
12:21 artnay     Riddell: true. canonical hasn't provided much guides and AUC is problematic, too
12:21 mhz        artnay: okis, I found a 'brake'
=== mhz is here now
12:21 klepas     well let us do through the wiki issues first :)
12:22 artnay     Viper550: ML isn't the best place
12:22 klepas     Oh, did we do introductsions for any minutes purposes?
                 i had contact with administrative people as well as developers and artists at canonical -
12:22 volvoguy   supposedly working with the community - but with very little response to my inquiries. i'm
                 not trying to be a downer, but i think it's an issue that needs to be addressed before we put
                 dozens or hundreds of manhours into our own work.
12:22 Viper550   Well, we've all been on it, and we've not minded. Also, they considered it for some new
                 universe artwork package thingy
12:23 klepas     yep
12:23 Yetzero    I think contacting the 'big ones' at canonical should get priority
12:23 volvoguy   Viper550, that's a good point - if we're meant to be supplimental artwork, then it doesn't
                 really matter what Canonical does. :)
12:23 Yetzero    as volvoguy said
12:23 klepas     this is something that needs to be fixed
12:23 artnay     volvoguy: there are rumours that canonical is hiring people to work on artwork
12:23 Viper550   Mailing List considered my new Glow wallpaper for universe artwork...
12:24 artnay     but we really don't know which parts
12:24 klepas     can this be brought up at something like the Community Council?
12:24 Yetzero    that's what we need to know first
12:24 volvoguy   artnay, that's the same situation as previous releases.
12:24 klepas     or elsewhere?
12:24 artnay     but we do know that canonical would like to have some community artwork
12:25 Viper550   This is OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE!!! Anyone can contribute anything!
12:25 artnay     sure, but it doesn't guarantee anything at all
12:25 libervisco Hm, if there's this discrepancy between canonical official artworkers and community
                 artworkers than that could be a problem, if the roles of both haven't been defined properly
12:25 Yetzero    in that case they'll need only proffesional quality artwork, after all, it's the image of
                 their product
12:25 klepas     so can this be brought up at a community council meeting?>
12:25 Yetzero    so we need to be clear about what we can or cannot do
12:25 klepas     or where should it be brought up?
12:25 artnay     libervisco: have our goals defined? *g*
                 for breezy we got a last minute email from (nameless dev) asking where all our contributions
12:25 volvoguy   were and a few of us spent hours getting things together, only to be completely disregarded
                 when it came to the release.
12:26 Viper550   Image of their OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE, remember those 3 little words that Ubuntu stands on?
                 Remember them like the Alamo!
=== lllmanulll [n=manu@dan75-4-82-239-58-38.fbx.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:26 bachler    are we slipping away from the wikilayout problem?
12:26 klepas     yep
12:26 klepas     lets get that through first
12:26 artnay     bachler: we already slipped
12:26 libervisco artnay, heh well, I don't have anything like that, just making an observation, but anything
                 can be achieved in a good discussion :)
12:26 klepas     working backwards through the contents of this: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTodoList
12:26 mhz        Viper550: you are right on that, but the idea behind 'organizing' is to avoid double work, is
                 to advance better
12:26 Viper550   Meowth, that's right! (I just had to do that)
12:27 volvoguy   remember... i'm an ubuntu fanatic all the way, so i'm not trying to pick a fight... just
                 trying to bring past issues to light.
12:27 mhz        klepas: this can perfectly be raise in CC
12:27 klepas     yep
12:27 klepas     mhz: good
12:27 Riddell    volvoguy: were there requests for specific artwork that you answered?
12:27 Yetzero    that's something we need to know beforehand
12:28 Yetzero    so we can focus on getting that done
12:28 artnay     well it didn't work last time, but we have plenty of time before dappers get wild
12:28 volvoguy   Riddell, mostly - it was background images being looked for and we presented at least a
                 dozen.
=== Gnobdy [n=jason@blk-222-218-223.eastlink.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:28 mhz        How many of you guys have been editing wiki pages on regular basis?
12:28 Gnobdy     hey
12:28 artnay     hi Gnobdy
12:28 klepas     Guys, keeping on track with our improvised agenda would be helpful.
                 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTodoList)
12:28 klepas     let's discuss the wiki issue
12:29 bachler    yeah
12:29 klepas     and then move on
12:29 volvoguy   by the way, while i was gone, did sonebody else get voted as art team coordinator?
12:29 mhz        klepas: yuo
12:29 mhz        yup
12:29 bachler    so, volvoguy said something about subcategories?
12:29 Viper550   Also, you goofed up the ending, KDM is a display manager. KDM is to GDM as KDE is to GNOME
12:29 mhz        How many of you guys have been editing wiki pages on regular basis?
12:29 klepas     wiki, guys
12:29 klepas     mhz: i have
12:29 mhz        (i ask that to know what the basis of our discussion will be)
12:29 mhz        klepas: thx
12:30 Viper550   Let's talk about the gold, the actual artwork...
12:30 klepas     i tried updating some of the pages. they sure are dusty ;)
12:30 klepas     Viper550: there is a sort of agenda - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTodoList - let us work
                 from that
12:30 artnay     we could have at least two people editing a specified /*buntuArtwork
12:30 Gnobdy     I think the defualt gtk theme needs upgrading for Dapper
12:30 volvoguy   this is my first attempt at getting back into the swing of things after my surgery. no wiki
                 editing for me lately.
12:30 mhz        I have some experience on moin wiki and I have read what artnay proposes. I agree with the
                 need to structure our contents
12:30 Viper550   It is having upgrades, Dapper Flight 2 has a new Cairo enabled Human theme
12:31 klepas     Guys, wiki please
12:31 klepas     two groups talking about different things is hard
12:31 mhz        Many users either just dont edit or just dont get the content they look for
12:31 Viper550   GTK theme is on the wiki!
12:31 klepas     in one channel
12:31 volvoguy   yeah. shall we go through the todo?
12:31 mhz        that is mainly due to the freedom wiki gives
12:31 Gnobdy     Viper550 I think the colours need to change more specifically
12:31 klepas     Viper550: we're working backwards :)
12:31 mhz        (which is a good freedom)
12:31 Gnobdy     the redish brown is ugly
12:31 Viper550   No, that happens AFTER Dapper according to the Shuttleworth memoirs
12:32 artnay     oh, something green: http://hdr.unk.fi/~artnay/leaf_by_machine6featUbuntu.png :) *seriously,
                 let's focus on wiki*
12:32 mhz        ok... Are we discussing WIKI or ART ?
12:32 Gnobdy     he said it could change to something other than brown after dapper not that the shade of
                 brown couldn't change this release
12:32 Viper550   ART!!!!!!!
12:32 libervisco WIKI
12:32 volvoguy   i think we only have control over alternate themes anyway - not the defaults.
12:32 mhz        :D
=== mhz is LOST
12:32 klepas     i propose wiki
12:32 klepas     it is important
12:32 lukacu     WIKI about ART
12:32 Viper550   If that is the case, I run and hide under KWall
12:32 bachler    artnay: good one, :-P, yeah lets keep to the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTodoList
12:32 artnay     yeah, wiki is the first priority
12:33 Viper550   The ART on the WIKI?
12:33 klepas     Guys. we're working through it backwards
12:33 klepas     so wiki first
12:33 artnay     Viper550: no, let's use AUC for submitting art
12:33 klepas     mailing list issues next
12:33 mhz        Viper550: to do that we need to structure the wiki to our ART needs, first
12:33 mhz        ok, so we are all in favoru of wiki 1st?
12:33 klepas     the wiki is very important
12:34 mhz        ok
12:34 lukacu     ok
12:34 klepas     yep
12:34 Viper550   What is this AUC you talk about?
12:34 klepas     art.ubunut.com
12:34 mhz        How many of you are already editing wiki pages?
12:34 Yetzero    let's follow the agenda, wiki first
12:34 klepas     *ubuntu
=== mhz is
12:34 bachler    can anyone explain the problem with the *buntuArtwork pages so that everyone understands
                 whats wring with them
12:34 Viper550   Oh, just figured that out 1 second before you said that
=== klepas is
=== Viper550 is wondering what Klepas is...
12:34 artnay     to discuss artwork in specified project, there would be /Artwork -> /*buntuArtwork ->
                 /UbuntuMetacityArtworkDiscussion
12:34 artnay     and one could attach an image with it
12:35 artnay     but AUC would be improved and that would be the first place to submit artwork
12:35 klepas     that is logical
12:35 artnay     screenshots could belong on ubuntuforums
12:35 mhz        artnay: that would be as messy as it is now
12:35 klepas     let's discuss each section
12:35 Viper550   But, that requires registeration for large thumbnails!
12:35 artnay     mhz: I don't know. we need a unified structure of /*buntuArtwork
12:35 mhz        What does ArtWork need a wiki for?
12:36 klepas     the /Artwork would be a central page
12:36 Viper550   wiki.ubuntu.com
12:36 artnay     mhz: ok, let's keep it ArtWork then
12:36 mhz        hehe
12:36 mhz        sorry
12:36 mhz        I forgot about that
12:36 volvoguy   mhz, so we know what we're working on, and new people know what to do when they join the
                 project
12:36 klepas     yep
12:36 mhz        volvoguy: ok, then
12:36 klepas     next is /*buntuArtwork
12:37 mhz        What are the common 'areas for each ArtWork flavour?
12:37 klepas     for each respectively: Kubuntu. Ubuntu. Xubuntu, Edubuntu and so fort
12:37 klepas     *forth
12:37 bachler    Logo
12:37 artnay     mhz: there's some listed at /ArtworkTodoList
12:37 Viper550   Let's do Artnay's idea
12:37 manicka    then the wiki must clearly outline how the projects are progressing and what needs doing
12:37 mhz        yeas I read it
12:37 Viper550   I've got an edit lock on UbuntuMetacityArtwork already!!!
12:38 mhz        artnay: if we keep UbuntuMetacityArtwork
12:38 klepas     so do we agree on this idea
12:38 mhz        we'll keep the mess
12:38 Viper550   Yes, I am going to hit the submit button now!
12:38 artnay     mhz: then we have UbuntuMetacityArtworkDiscussion as wel
12:38 artnay     that could be a mess. but the status page should be clear and informal
12:38 klepas     agreed
=== Viper550 hits Save Changes
=== lguerra [i=lguerra@201.236.209.80] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:39 mhz        artnay: yeah, but when we define structures we go from general to specific
=== FLeiXiuS [n=fleixius@pcp0010489211pcs.essex01.md.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:39 bachler    mhz, sounds lite a good idea
12:39 Viper550   Your title code with the equal signs don't work!
12:39 Gnobdy     So is it official that AndyFitz is no longer making an icon theme??
12:40 artnay     Gnobdy: he is
12:40 Gnobdy     oh?
12:40 klepas     Gnobdy: that will come in good time
12:40 klepas     wiki first
12:40 Gnobdy     it said on the wiki that he isn't
12:40 artnay     just have some patience
12:40 volvoguy   i haven't heard from andy in ages.
12:40 klepas     wiki first please
12:40 nomed      i'm not an ubuntu developer but i was playing with its artwork packages during these days
12:40 volvoguy   sorry. *shuts up*
12:40 artnay     Gnobdy: read https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTodoList -> Icons
12:40 Viper550   There, the equals needed spaces then the title!
12:40 nomed      i think the Artwork page should be devided in packages sections
12:41 Viper550   For icons, I think we should dump Humility, that project already died!
12:41 volvoguy   let's pretend artnay has the microphone. :)
12:41 nomed      gfxboot-theme-*buntu
12:41 klepas     guys
12:41 klepas     please
12:41 klepas     wiki first
12:41 artnay     volvoguy: he does things his own way. let's give him some time
12:41 klepas     artnay if you will? :)
12:41 nomed      *buntu-artwork-usplash
12:41 nomed      *buntu-artwork
12:41 artnay     15 minutes left, that's not much
12:41 nomed      as the user will see them during the boot up process
12:41 artnay     we need to make some decisions, mainly on wiki
12:42 klepas     yep
12:42 Viper550   Edit lock already on gfxboot-theme-ubuntu
12:42 volvoguy   artnay, yeah - i just used to be in touch with him daily pre-breezy. i miss him. *sniff*
12:42 klepas     A general question to all
12:42 nomed      then there are subusections on each package
12:42 klepas     How many of you agree that this new proposal for wiki layout is good?
12:42 Yetzero    i do
12:42 artnay     how many of you have read it actually? :)
12:42 nomed      and the one that has more is for sure
12:42 lukacu     i do
12:42 nomed      *buntu-artwork
12:43 klepas     i do too
12:43 nomed      that includes
12:43 Gnobdy     I concur
12:43 bachler    i dont reallt see the problem, but i guess that it needs a retouch
12:43 klepas     alright
12:43 mhz        klepas: i think that structure is a good base but we need to make sure it goes from General
                 to Specific
12:43 klepas     shall we vote on it then?
12:43 volvoguy   it's way better than it was.
12:43 nomed      icons metacity wallpaper gtk
12:43 mhz        klepas: trying to avoid subpages as much as we can
12:43 artnay     klepas: vote on what? let's do /UbuntuArtwork as an example
12:43 klepas     mhz: it will become specific very quicly when we get to *buntuArtwork
12:44 artnay     so that would be done within next five days. are there people who are willing to do that same
                 for K, ED and X?
12:44 mhz        klepas: and in order to users/interested people to know what the final structure will be, we
                 need to ask everytone here to Subscribe to ArtWork
12:44 klepas     Yep. I'm happy to
12:44 klepas     mhz: yep
12:45 bachler    anyone got any suggestions for a layout?
12:45 klepas     i think that is alright
12:45 artnay     hopefully you guys have time left as I think this is going to take a while
12:45 klepas     So shall we vote, taking into account that
12:45 klepas     because we need to make decisions
12:45 mhz        bachler: artnay and me but I'll show it once I can wiki it (paper now) and finish this
                 meeting
12:45 klepas     and not let this drag until the next meeting
12:46 klepas     Vote?
12:46 lukacu     yes
12:46 Viper550   Let's do the idea that I'm already putting into action (UbuntuMetacityArtwork)
12:46 bachler    mhz: good, cuz noting will happen unless anyone suggests something
12:46 mhz        artnay: what if we propose 3 people to get working on wiki proposal
12:46 artnay     bachler: topics on /*buntuArtWork: Projects, ???
12:46 klepas     mhz: yep
12:46 klepas     good idea
12:46 klepas     alright
12:46 artnay     mhz: and it would be done within next five days
12:46 klepas     have we got 3 volunteers?
12:46 mhz        artnay: of course! before tuesday
12:46 artnay     not just the propisition, /UbuntuArtwork itself
=== klepas puts himself forth
12:47 artnay     damn typos
12:47 klepas     yea, given 3 people and a week
=== mhz puts himself too
12:47 klepas     we can do it
12:47 klepas     artnay: will you join us?
12:47 Yetzero    that's the way we have to work
=== Viper550 thinks Ubuntu Logos need their own page, /UbuntuLogos
12:47 artnay     Viper550:
12:47 klepas     anyone else?
12:47 lukacu     i can help after 2nd januray
12:47 klepas     to help fix the wiki
12:47 volvoguy   i really have to remain a casual observer for a while yet, but i'll be around to voice my
                 opinions. ;)
12:47 artnay     no, that would be covered in /*buntuArtwork
12:47 nomed      ubuntu logo is in ubuntu-artwork
12:48 klepas     artnay: ?
12:48 artnay     klepas: I guess I have some time to spare :)
12:48 Viper550   Making Ubuntu Artwork for wallpapers, usplash thingys, excetera
12:48 klepas     thanks
12:48 klepas     alright
12:48 klepas     that is settled then
12:48 klepas     Wiki will be re-organised
12:48 mhz        ALL: so we have the ArtWorkWikiTeam -> klepas + mhz +  artnay  These guys will have a
                 complete wiki proposal for a unified structure
12:49 Viper550   YIPPEE! Let's celebrate!
12:49 artnay     Viper550: no, Projects would be one topic. it would cover mostly stuff that is listed at
                 /ArtworkTodoList
12:49 bachler    haha, .. wath volvoguy said.. i think it applys for me too
12:49 klepas     alright
12:49 lukacu     move on?
12:49 Viper550   Oh, well I can still do the Honk Honk Smells Good dance right?
12:49 klepas     finally wiki is out of the way
12:49 volvoguy   bachler, did you have spinal fusion surgery too? ;)
12:49 artnay     and then below that could be all stuff related to that *buntuArtwork
12:49 lguerra    i want colaborate
12:49 klepas     mailing lists are next
12:49 Viper550   Honk Honk, Honk Honk, Smells Good, Smells Good!
12:49 Yetzero    let's do this 3 people proposal thing for everything :P
12:49 mhz        ALL:  this Team will have 5 days (or 7, considering the dates) to propose something to the ML
12:49 Viper550   Yeah, best of 3!
12:50 bachler    volvoguy: no.. but i got hit by a car.. my left shoulder is not in its best condition
12:50 klepas     I agree with mhz's latest email
12:50 klepas     on the mailing list
12:50 klepas     about using the wiki to upload art
12:50 volvoguy   bachler, ok... you're off the hook too then.
=== Viper550 checks Kmail
12:50 artnay     Yetzero: it will be an open proposal at wiki. it most probably will be discussed on IRC, so
                 please connect to Freenode more often
12:50 klepas     at least work-in-progress stuff
12:51 artnay     klepas: yeah, but now behind one's name. that would be *buntuProjectArtworkDiscussion
=== mhz agrees with klepas on using the wiki to upload artwork and have discussions there
12:51 Viper550   I think that's a good idea, but the other way around sounds good too!
12:51 klepas     would that go to, say for example for me /PascalKlein/Artwork ?
12:51 klepas     or where shall this content go?
=== Gnobdy is now known as Gnobody
12:51 artnay     klepas: under the discussion page
12:52 klepas     alright
12:52 klepas     that sounds good
12:52 klepas     because right now using our individual upload methos
12:52 klepas     *methods
12:52 Viper550   Never mind, let's do ML discussion, Wiki Upload. The ml readers got slightly mad for me
                 attaching my stuff
12:52 klepas     and posting to the ML is not the best idea
12:52 klepas     Viper550: we just there is a better, easier way
12:53 klepas     making use of the wiki's features would be that way
                 while we're still on the wiki, should the point be made on one of the entry pages that our
12:53 volvoguy   work will most likely be "contributed" art and not default artwork for the distro? at least
                 for the next few releases?
12:53 Viper550   YES! Honk Honk Honk Honk, Smells Good Smells Good!
12:53 artnay     Viper550: of course ML would have discussion after renewing wiki. but at least the project
                 page should be kept up-to-date
12:53 klepas     volvoguy: sure, but something i will try to bring up on the Community Council meeting
12:53 volvoguy   klepas, gotcha. thanks. :)
12:53 klepas     so, do we generally agree to no post art on the mailing list
12:53 klepas     well not attached art at least
12:54 bachler    yeah
12:54 lukacu     ok
12:54 volvoguy   klepas, agreed. definitely.
12:54 klepas     please use Art.ubuntu.com for finished work
12:54 Yetzero    agreed
12:54 Viper550   Yes "signs on not so dotted line, that he already forgot about once..."
12:54 klepas     and anything else goes to the wiki
12:54 klepas     alright
12:54 mhz        volvoguy: good point
12:54 klepas     great
12:54 klepas     thanks everyone
12:54 klepas     it would also allow people to comment on the work
12:54 Viper550   But, you need external hosting to upload wallpapers to AUC
12:54 klepas     so feel free to make use of this too
12:54 klepas     Viper550: use the wiki :)
12:54 klepas     as a start
12:54 volvoguy   mhz, thx. just don't want anyone getting the wrong idea as i did initially. doh!
12:54 mhz        volvoguy: please send an email with the text you imagine. We can use Templates too, so evey
                 new page has same basic content
12:55 Viper550   But, we said we wouldn't use Wiki for finished work!
12:55 artnay     yeah, for the "defaulted ones"
12:55 artnay     *buntuProjectArtwork would have these images, too
12:55 klepas     Viper550: look at it this way
12:55 klepas     you're making something
12:55 mhz        ALL: and please can we agree to upload SVG files too, in AUC ?
12:56 klepas     and you post the work in progress
12:56 klepas     mhz: yep
12:56 Viper550   Yes, for Universe artwork
12:56 klepas     anyhow, and you continue to upload wip versions
12:56 lukacu     mhz: but not ONLY svg please
12:56 klepas     and then lastly, the final version
12:56 Viper550   For your critisim of course!
12:56 klepas     and then you can submit it at AUC
12:56 klepas     :)
12:56 volvoguy   mhz, i think klepas has it under control with the Community Council meeting stuff. keep in
                 touch with him about the details about where we stand with all the work we do.
12:56 mhz        Viper550: wiki is the base EVERY newcomer visits first, even before AUC
12:56 klepas     yep
12:57 klepas     mhz: wholesomely agreed
12:57 mhz        lucasvo: nope, of course. :D
12:57 klepas     guys, remember the wiki can be viewed without joining the mailing list and so forth, so
                 everyone can easily see it and have access to it
12:57 bachler    wiki me like!
12:57 klepas     let us make use of the features :)
12:57 mhz        volvoguy: okis on CC
12:57 Viper550   You can view the Mailing List, it's just tougher!
12:58 klepas     anyway so we mutually agreed to use the wiki to post at least work in progress work
12:58 klepas     rather than attaching it to the mailing list
12:58 Viper550   Yes
12:58 lukacu     yes
12:58 Yetzero    yes
12:58 bachler    yes
12:58 mhz        ALL: I can offer myself to do a MoinWiki-School one day here in IRC
12:58 klepas     you can still write about it in the ML, but don't uplaod it
12:58 Viper550   Honk Honk.....never mind the Honk Honk Smells Good dance
12:58 mhz        (if needed)
12:58 klepas     mhz: that's be lovely
12:58 volvoguy   klepas, good point. i was just going to mention that definitions of SVG/PNG/JPG/etc should be
                 defined somewhere. i get emails ALL THE TIME asking for PNG versions of my SVG backgrounds.
12:58 lukacu     mhz: cool
12:58 bachler    mhz: good, when?
12:59 Viper550   It's called the Export Bitmap tool in Inkscape
12:59 klepas     organise at the end
12:59 klepas     anyway
12:59 klepas     so that's the mailing list out of the way
12:59 artnay     that would be under guides
12:59 klepas     let us move on
12:59 klepas     IRC Channel next :)
12:59 Viper550   Can we now talk about Kubuntu theme proposals?
12:59 mhz        lukacu: klepas: bachler: let me finish the 'structure'  with the team, gimme on emore week
                 and I'l be ready for it and send email on the requirements
01:00 lukacu     ok
01:00 bachler    k
01:00 artnay     and every *buntuProjectArtwork would cover links to guides related to that project
01:00 klepas     given the attendance we have now, does this mean we will have more people on the
######### ubuntu-artwork irc channel?
01:00 bachler    the allmighty IRC channel..
01:00 volvoguy   Viper550, i know that - but Mr. Windows Guy trying to use an SVG wallpaper doesn't.
01:00 klepas     i would certainly welcome it
01:00 Viper550   Inkscape runs on Windows too!
01:00 libervisco good to see some progress made :)
01:00 artnay     but nobody has agreed to build/maintain /Kubu... and /Xu...
=== libervisco just observes
01:00 Viper550   Kubuntu Art?
01:01 mhz        libervisco: good point
01:01 volvoguy   Viper550, :-P
01:01 klepas     let's not stray
01:01 klepas     the IRC topic is small and we can move on quickly
=== lamont [n=lamont@mix.mmjgroup.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:01 klepas     can i just get a headcount on how many people use the IRC on a regular basis please?
01:01 lukacu     volvoguy: it is also easier for auc admin to create thumbnail out of png or jpg ... i think
                 so
01:01 volvoguy   klepas, i'll try to hit the IRC channel more. this is the longest i've been online in months.
01:01 mhz        klepas: i use it
01:02 libervisco klepas, heh I do, but I wasn't in these channels before :)
=== Viper550 laughs hysterically
01:02 klepas     volvoguy: yea, you've got an excuse
01:02 artnay     lukacu: we can have a script that would create/convert everything needed
01:02 Yetzero    i don't use IRC for anything else that this meeting
01:02 klepas     alright
01:02 volvoguy   lukacu, probably. that got going right before my surgery so i haven't even logged in as admin
                 yet.
01:02 bachler    irc channel.. i really dont remember where i got the info about it.. but a quick googel on
                 "ubuntu artwork irc" gets you to http://www.volvoguy.net/ubuntu/
01:02 klepas     so generally the use of the IRC channel probably won't increase
01:02 lukacu     artnay: yeah, but we need imagemagick ;)
01:02 Viper550   Think the default Kubuntu icons should be something different than Crystal?
01:02 klepas     that's alright for now
01:03 libervisco klepas, what are plans for IRC?
01:03 artnay     lukacu: we just have to tell about that to canonical. I hope they are more aware of this
                 problem after this discussion
01:03 klepas     no decisions need to made on this so we can move on the topic of AUC
01:03 volvoguy   bachler, hey, for a while a google of "ubuntu artwork" listed my site as number one. :)
01:03 klepas     libervisco: nothing much, use it for what we currently do :)
01:03 bachler    heh
01:03 libervisco oh ok
01:03 Riddell    Viper550: generally I want to keep kubuntu close to KDE artwork
01:03 klepas     AUC.
01:03 artnay     volvoguy: and when was the last time you updated it? :) I think that google result tells
                 something
01:03 Viper550   It's called being unique
01:04 Viper550   NuoveXT would be perfect!
01:04 volvoguy   artnay, i know. i'm a slacker. :)
01:04 klepas     what are your takes on the CMS?
01:04 artnay     Riddell: yeah, the default theme has taken some hours, and there are reasons for that
01:04 mhz        klepas: even if IRC use is not more, Wiki is for those who dont IRC, and ML for those who can
                 complain or suggest something
01:04 klepas     mhz: yep :)
01:04 mhz        :D
01:04 artnay     klepas: not artweb
01:05 artnay     I see it's causing a lot of pain
01:05 Viper550   They'd look good...
01:05 klepas     artnay: agreed
01:05 bachler    i perssonally would like to see some more activity on the irc
01:05 ptomes     Viper550: What about http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=32288
01:05 klepas     who here has administration rights to AUC apart from me?
01:05 lukacu     me
01:05 lukacu     i
01:05 lukacu     :)
01:05 artnay     beside AUC will have to cover stuff for at least four different flavous
01:05 Yetzero    what about weekly IRC meetings?
01:05 mhz        libervisco: usually, all FLOSS developments discuss actively on IRC channels
01:05 klepas     so lukacu and i.
01:05 artnay     artweb can't do that anyway
01:05 volvoguy   artweb in retrospect wasn't a great idea - but it was a quick fix.
01:05 Viper550   Tango> not even close to KDE artwork!!!
01:05 klepas     Yetzero: sounds awesome
01:05 libervisco mhz, yep
01:06 lukacu     and volvoguy i think
01:06 Viper550   p.s. It's a pain to setup under KDE
01:06 klepas     i know Andy does too
01:06 Yetzero    I see the main problem about IRC is that we live in different places so we don't know when to
                 get there
01:06 libervisco So someone here has full access to be able to install a CMS?
01:06 bachler    i am totaly for smaller meetings on irc every.. say, weekend
01:06 klepas     Guys! May I suggest if you wish to discuss something off topic for now use the
######### ubuntu-artwork IRC channel please!
01:07 klepas     libervisco: no. guys from Canonical did that =\
01:07 libervisco ah
=== lguerra is now known as lguerra_ausente
01:07 Viper550   So, any other artwork related thing should be in ubuntu-artwork now?
01:07 artnay     it's 02:09 AM here and I have work tomorr... no, today. could we make some more decisions?
01:07 bachler    klepas: weekly meetings in irc?
01:07 libervisco so how can you get them to change it?
01:07 klepas     bachler: yep, i'm all for it
01:07 volvoguy   if we all vote on something better, we have a Canonical contact to work on our server.
01:07 bachler    klepas: me too
01:07 klepas     back to AUC
01:07 libervisco volvoguy, I see
01:08 klepas     how many of us generall agree that the artweb cms ought to be replaced?
=== klepas does
01:08 libervisco let me take a look at it, have a link?
01:08 lukacu     well if we find something better then yes
01:08 artnay     I guess the current AUC admins have quite clear picture what's slowing AUC down. let's
                 suppose that artweb will be changed
01:08 bachler    so, what day of the week would the meeting be held, and what time? .. i guess that saturdays
                 is good for me
01:08 mhz        Yetzero: yes, IRC is to intereact while you are working on something. Also, ML is to general
                 discussion but is so slow. Wiki is to place stuff so others can discuss or complement
01:08 klepas     http://art.ubuntu.com
01:08 libervisco oh
01:08 libervisco right :D
01:08 mhz        libervisco: why a CMS?
01:08 Viper550   If I wanted to talk about StreamlinedBoot, where should I go?
01:09 Yetzero    mhz: thanks
01:09 klepas     libervisco: you won't see the lack of functions as a nomral user
01:09 volvoguy   libervisco, he worked a lot on artweb so he might not be thrilled, but if there's a strong
                 contender we might be able to get it replaced.
01:09 artnay     klepas: it's still pain to navigate
01:09 klepas     yep
01:09 libervisco I see
01:09 libervisco well it looks good from user side
01:09 klepas     so generally do we agree to seek alternate systems?
=== BxL [n=BxL@modemcable097.172-131-66.mc.videotron.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:09 libervisco but klepas did told me it's a disaster to manage from your side
01:09 klepas     libervisco: but it is a huge pain to add content
01:09 klepas     yes
01:10 volvoguy   it's a disaster.
=== bachler waves a little with the IRC channel question...
01:10 libervisco a good site to test CMSs is www.opensourcecms.com
01:10 lukacu     yes
01:10 artnay     klepas: we do. and what next?
01:10 klepas     Since a fair few of us, particularly the admins, think the artweb CMS isn't as great as we
                 need
01:10 artnay     ;)
01:10 Viper550   A little bit of Ubuntu on my comp...sorry about the Mambo #5 pun, it runs Mambo!
01:11 klepas     let's see if there is anyone interested in checking out alternatives
01:11 mhz        CMS that use PHP do need more admin hours than Moin as CMS
01:11 libervisco I think you can definitely find a better CMS
01:11 mhz        and we can make Moin work as CMS
01:11 klepas     and reporting back to use on what they find
01:11 mhz        thats why we formed a team :D
01:11 klepas     mhz: i wouldn't use it for this purpose
01:11 klepas     i personally suggest something like the GNOME/KDE-look.org CMS
01:11 mhz        (me neither, klepas but it can be)
01:11 artnay     mhz: we need something well-tested to this purpose. how's Moin as CMS?
01:11 klepas     i know it is quite configurable
=== TTT_Travis [n=Travis@bal-broadband2-ws-247.dsl.airstreamcomm.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== TTT_Travis [n=Travis@bal-broadband2-ws-247.dsl.airstreamcomm.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
01:12 libervisco well drupal and XOOPS are great, from my experience
01:12 klepas     not for managing graphic content
01:12 lukacu     yeah, drupal is cool
01:12 libervisco although XOOPS has a better image gallery
01:12 mhz        artnay: klepas: we can analyze it while we work on # the channel :)
01:12 klepas     something like GNOME/KDE-look.org's CMS is better
01:12 klepas     alright
                 a big argument for artweb was that it tied in with gnomeart - allowing users to use one app
01:12 volvoguy   to preview, download and install any artwork from our site or art.gnome.org. that hasn't
                 happened yet though .
01:12 libervisco klepas, I think they use something like phpnuke...
01:12 klepas     volvoguy: yea, and frankly that app sucks
01:13 lukacu     :)
01:13 volvoguy   klepas, eh - it gets the job done. usually.
01:13 klepas     the work that would need to be done to fix it + the work that would need to be done to fix
                 art-web... ugh. too much
01:13 bachler    what are we takling about again?
01:13 klepas     AUC
01:13 klepas     and it's CMS
01:13 volvoguy   lol
01:13 klepas     art-web
01:13 Viper550   Should it use AGC's cms system?
01:14 lukacu     we do need guidelines and faq
                 ok, let's take a closer look at what's happening currently with artweb. if it won't provide
01:14 artnay     much more usability, then let's change it. we need a team to seek for an alternativies. let's
                 place this info to wiki and a discussion page of that
01:14 mhz        ALL:  what if we have a wiki page to anlize what we expect from and art-web site?
                 you know, i think i need to quit distracting you and go take some pain meds. i'll try to
01:14 volvoguy   catch up with the logs and find ya'll later on our own IRC channel. good seeing everybody
                 again.
01:14 mhz        and then, fill it with opinions and charts
01:15 klepas     cheers volvoguy
01:15 lukacu     bye volvoguy
01:15 mhz        volvoguy: thx for being here
01:15 klepas     mhz: sounds alright
01:15 artnay     volvoguy: take care
01:15 volvoguy   thanks, and my pleasure. :) later guys!
01:15 libervisco cya volvoguy
01:15 klepas     i personally propose we get a few people who are interested in this
01:15 klepas     and ask them to investigate possible alternative CMSs
01:15 mhz        klepas: good too!
01:15 klepas     maybe they have access to a server, and can set it up
01:16 klepas     and then allow the current admins to have a look at the admin interface
01:16 artnay     klepas: yeah, that doesn't require inkscape or the gimp
01:16 Yetzero    we need somewhere to upload artwork
01:16 klepas     lol
01:16 klepas     still art related :)
01:16 klepas     think of it this way
01:16 mhz        klepas: but befoire they set the CMS I think it's needed to discuss the featrures
01:17 klepas     if we get something as powerful as GNOME-look.org' CMS set up art will be so much easier to
                 maintain
01:17 klepas     mhz: yep
01:17 Viper550   KDE-Look also uses that, whatever it is
01:17 artnay     mhz: AUC admins will most likely write a list of needed operations. that list will be
                 included in wiki
01:17 klepas     yep
01:17 klepas     as does KDE-Apps, XFCE-Look and so forth
01:17 mhz        yup
01:17 klepas     agreed
01:17 klepas     lukacu and i can do that
01:17 mhz        Will we have another meeting next week ?
01:17 lukacu     yeah
01:17 klepas     i can ask Andy to do the same
01:18 klepas     mhz: sounds alright
01:18 klepas     we need some progress
01:18 artnay     indeed
01:18 klepas     so another meeting would serve us well
01:18 mhz        ALL: so we'll submit advances next meeting?
01:18 klepas     yes
01:18 Yetzero    please, weekly meetings at a fixed time
01:18 klepas     lukacu: i'll contact Andy
01:18 mhz        can we discus UTC time on ML?
01:18 artnay     we need to start now, otherwise we won't make it (just like with breezy :(
01:18 lukacu     ok
01:18 Yetzero    ok
01:18 mhz        or voting via WIki as we did now?
01:18 klepas     ditto
01:18 Viper550   ditto!
01:18 klepas     Yes!
01:19 bachler    ok
01:19 Viper550   3 anti-strikes, you
01:19 mhz        heheh
01:19 mhz        okis
01:19 Viper550   I mean 3 anti-strikes, you're in!
01:19 klepas     lukacu: we'll pass around what we come up with concerning the features or lack thereof via
                 mail
01:19 mhz        we can even rotate UTC time so everyone get a chance to feel better
01:19 klepas     Andy you and I
01:20 Viper550   At least my time made it start at 6pm
01:20 lukacu     no problem
=== mhz has to ge tbnack to solving 'issues'
01:20 klepas     alright
01:20 klepas     so that is AUC out of the way
01:20 mhz        ALL:  thx for being here and see you in #ubuntu-artwork
01:20 klepas     considering the next lot is all small stuff
01:20 mhz        bye all
01:20 bachler    bye
=== Viper550 thinks it's time to actually start talking art, in ubuntu-artwork
01:20 artnay     pong mhz
=== Viper550 [n=thompson@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
01:20 klepas     if you guys are going
01:20 klepas     check the Logs later
=== nomed [n=debaser@host52-58.pool8260.interbusiness.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
01:21 klepas     there is still someting i want to discuss
01:21 klepas     for those that are left
=== mhz_away will read logs, of course
01:21 bachler    i am here
01:21 artnay     I think that the current brown look is a problem. I also think that Canonical acknowledges
                 this
=== lllmanulll didn't say anything, but is here :)
01:21 artnay     they might not have plans ready yet
01:21 klepas     what do you guys reckon on making a Ubuntu and a Kubuntu universe art package
01:21 artnay     so some patience, I'll bet they will answer
01:22 Riddell    klepas: what would you put in them?
=== Burgwork [n=corey@S010600131016cf6f.gv.shawcable.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Burgwork [n=corey@S010600131016cf6f.gv.shawcable.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
01:22 bachler    klepas: i think that is a good idea
=== Viper550 [n=thompson@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:23 klepas     because i've had people from both the KDE (Kubuntu) and GNOME (Ubuntu) community privately
                 ask us to make something like this
01:23 Viper550   Is the meeting over?
01:23 klepas     well for the Kubuntu one for a example
01:23 artnay     at least the current theme has been heavily criticized. I like the idea of brown (it seems to
                 be quite important topic to some ubuntu users), but the current style is a bit outdated
01:23 Riddell    we already have a kubuntu-grub-splashimages so stuff like that is quite possible
01:23 klepas     KDM themes, window decorations, themes/styles and so forth
01:23 klepas     wallpapersd
01:23 klepas     we could even package tango
01:23 Viper550   But, I'm concerned about the Usplash artwork for the deravitives...
01:24 Riddell    tango is packaged I'm sure, dholbach does it
01:24 libervisco Tango is a good idea
01:24 artnay     at least majority of my friends have said that after ubuntu installation. and I guess I'm
                 with them
01:24 artnay     ;P
01:24 libervisco I think people should start implementing it
01:24 klepas     well forget tango for now
01:24 Viper550   I still think for what it is right now, Humility is pretty neat lookingh
01:24 klepas     Kubuntu's universe art package would include kubuntu (KDE) related art
01:24 klepas     how does that soun Riddell ?
01:24 klepas     *sound
01:25 artnay     those debian packages should be able to "humanize" your KDE and make GNOME look blue or
                 something
01:25 Riddell    klepas: sounds fun, if there's enough high quality random kubuntu artwork that would be nice
                 to have it in a package
01:25 Yetzero    you have a point there
01:25 Viper550   Yeah, we could call them ubuntu-gearize and kubuntu-humanize!
01:25 BxL        everything else exept ubuntu is blue, get something else than blue
01:25 klepas     well i plan to make some new stuff for it too
01:25 bachler    i think that the answer to all this is to have more art and themes as packages?
01:26 klepas     no point packaging only art that people have already see :)
01:26 klepas     *seen
01:26 Yetzero    yeah
01:26 artnay     BxL: it wouldn't be blue by default
01:26 klepas     I've already been given the go ahead for an Ubuntu (thus GNOME) art package for universe by
                 Ogra
01:26 artnay     that's the point, let's provide an easy way to change the whole look of GUI
01:26 Yetzero    we should work on a different overall art proposal
01:26 klepas     Riddell: can you give me the green light as to a Kubuntu universe art package?
01:27 Viper550   Let's think about the users...ideas
01:27 artnay     it's not like my mom would surf GNOME-look or KDE-look, compile new decos etc.
01:27 Yetzero    that affects the whole system in a way that it's coherent
01:27 artnay     it has to be simple. bvc has nice GNOME mods ready, maybe he would like to get them packaged
01:27 bachler    artnay: sounds good
01:27 Viper550   Okay, don't forget about that wallpaper I put on the ML, Glow!
01:28 klepas     Riddell: ?
01:28 Riddell    klepas: if you think there's enough decent kubuntu themed artwork I'm all for it
01:28 bachler    me too
01:28 klepas     cool
01:28 Riddell    klepas: give me a poke in #kubuntu-devel if you need any help or want me to review
01:28 klepas     i'd be happy to work on both of these
01:29 klepas     Ubuntu and Kubuntu packages
01:29 klepas     sure
01:29 klepas     thanks :)
01:29 klepas     while we're on it
01:29 bachler    klepas: *thumbsup*
01:29 klepas     is there anyone who would be willing to help me in this regard?
01:29 artnay     klepas: to say: GNOME and KDE :p
01:29 klepas     find suitable artwork and create some
01:29 artnay     it's the idea, leave the current Ubuntu/Edubuntu style in a second
01:30 Yetzero    i'm all for creating content... at last :D
01:30 klepas     artnay: interested?
01:30 klepas     Riddell: just one more question on this - what license would the stuff have to be under?
01:30 artnay     klepas: if I only had more time... but I'll try to do my best :o
01:30 klepas     alrighty ;)
01:31 bachler    well..
01:31 lukacu     klepas: i will help as much as i can
=== bachler goes off into the night
01:31 klepas     nice
01:31 bachler    bye.
01:31 Yetzero    bye
01:31 klepas     cheers bachler
01:31 lukacu     bye
01:31 klepas     Riddell: license?
01:31 artnay     klepas: that's another issue, licenses. which ones are acceptable? CC-SA, LGPL, GPL etc.
01:31 artnay     but
01:32 Viper550   The glow wallpaper if you are wondering;
                 http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/attachments/20051226/f7c89d99/ubuntuglow-0001.jpg
01:32 Riddell    klepas: the kubuntu logo is creative commons, anything Free is acceptable though
01:32 libervisco CC-SA is probably best for art
01:32 artnay     there's lots of Ubuntu-related artwork all around the web. if license will give you a right
                 to distribute it, please submit it to AUC
01:32 libervisco GPLs are mainly for software
01:33 Viper550   My glow one is GPL
01:33 artnay     libervisco: that's true. I think the GPL team will provide an equivalent to artwork, too.
01:33 Viper550   Automatically, because it's a dervitave of a GPL work!
01:33 artnay     when V3 is released
01:33 libervisco artnay, that would be good
01:33 klepas     Ogra mentioned some CC license
01:33 klepas     but i can't remember which
01:34 klepas     and it all has to be under that license
01:34 artnay     or then they leave it to CC, I don't really know. So don't take my word on that.
01:34 Viper550   Creative Commons Attribution?
01:34 klepas     so if we find something that is GPL we need to ask the creator
01:34 artnay     klepas: CC can be restrictive, too.
01:34 klepas     yes, i know
01:34 klepas     remember it isn't my decision
01:34 Viper550   No, as long as it is also GPL'd and there is source code!
01:34 libervisco CC-SA is best IMO
01:34 libervisco attribution, share alike
01:34 klepas     libervisco: that sounds fine
01:34 klepas     might even have been tha
01:35 klepas     *that
01:35 klepas     either way
01:35 libervisco it's equivalent to GPL for software
01:35 klepas     i'll contact ogra about it
01:35 Yetzero    that's the best one i think
01:35 klepas     and ask him which one it was
01:36 artnay     /Artwork will be updated shortly. it will have short-term goals for different kind of
                 projects (no artwork needed).
01:36 klepas     alright
01:36 Viper550   Now, let's start on that todo list with Fonts, okay?
01:36 klepas     well to sort of conclude this
01:36 klepas     I'd like to extend a big thankyou to you all
01:36 klepas     for attending
01:36 klepas     i've seen some new faces. :)
01:37 klepas     and i think we've gotten ourselves a wee bit more organised
01:37 lukacu     who will write meeting minutes?
=== klepas is already on it
01:37 klepas     :)
01:37 lukacu     :)
01:37 lukacu     cool
01:37 artnay     Viper550: if it's not taken default by canonical, that kind of stuff should be left to
                 decided by style submitter
01:37 klepas     now that we have gotten ourselves organised
01:37 klepas     we can actually go away and do something
01:37 Viper550   Little question, why not change the default font to FreeSans?
01:37 klepas     before the next meeting
01:38 klepas     One final request
01:38 klepas     out of those here now
01:38 klepas     could you please do:
01:38 artnay     Viper550: because no Canonicals has provided their opinion.
=== klepas is FirstnameLastname
01:38 klepas     for exampple
=== klepas is Pascal Klein
01:38 klepas     :)
01:38 Yetzero    * is Luis Santander
01:38 klepas     for the meeting minutes
01:38 Yetzero    :D
=== Viper550 [n=thompson@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
01:39 libervisco I like FreeSans font
01:39 klepas     i'll check the others through the logs
=== libervisco is Danijel Orsolic
01:39 libervisco :)
=== lukacu is Luka Cehovin
=== artnay is tired
01:39 lukacu     lol
01:40 klepas     :)
01:40 libervisco :D
=== lllmanulll is Manu Cornet
01:40 Yetzero    did you guys got some bad time? I started here at 8:00 pm :D
01:40 klepas     11:40 AM here :)
01:41 Yetzero    :O
01:41 libervisco 01: 40
01:41 artnay     don't mention it... 02:43 AM
01:41 libervisco AM
01:41 artnay     therefore I'm a bit exhausted
01:41 lukacu     yeah ... its late allright
01:41 artnay     I have to get up at 6 AM :|
01:41 lukacu     lol
01:42 artnay     anyways, enough of OT
01:42 lukacu     lets finish then
01:42 libervisco damn, you better get some sleep artnay :)
01:42 Yetzero    what's left to discuss?
01:43 klepas     nothing really
01:43 artnay     if only we could know what canonical is planning. we need to get a idea of that so we can
                 sort of base our artwork on that
01:43 artnay     well at least have something similiar
01:43 klepas     Yetzero: not now anyway
01:43 artnay     if the official artwork gets released when Dapper gets gold, it's already too late
01:43 klepas     Yetzero: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTodoList
01:44 klepas     but most of it next time
01:44 Yetzero    klepas: Ok
01:44 klepas     i ought to have minutes finished tonight my time or tomorrow (my time)
01:44 klepas     ohh
01:44 klepas     artnay: will you help make a cooperative article about the proceedings for Ubuntux.org?
01:44 klepas     :)
01:45 libervisco artnay is the owner of Ubuntux.org?
01:45 artnay     remember, this is community based work. canonical is relying on community. only Mark has the
                 last word to be used (veto)
01:45 klepas     no
01:45 klepas     :P
01:46 libervisco :D
01:46 klepas     either way, i promised Friedrich (owner of ubuntux.org) a sort of mini article on what's
                 happening art wise
01:46 klepas     he'll be happy to hear about an Ubuntu and a Kubuntu universe art package
01:46 Yetzero    artnay is right, but we need to know where exactly we can help
01:47 libervisco oh
01:47 klepas     don't worry
01:47 klepas     i'm going to the next Community Council meeting
01:47 klepas     and i'll be taking that up
01:47 klepas     i want to know as much as the rest of you what is happening in regards to art
01:47 klepas     whether our efforts will appear in Dapper or not
01:47 klepas     anyway
01:47 klepas     i need to be off
01:47 klepas     thanks again everyone
01:48 libervisco alright, cya later klepas
01:48 lukacu     bye klepas
01:48 Yetzero    bye
01:48 artnay     klepas: be sure to come back, we have some wikis to do :p
01:48 klepas     libervisco: we can publish the phpbb theme soon
01:48 klepas     yep
01:48 klepas     will do :)
01:48 libervisco klepas, sure.. I can make those changes if needed...
01:49 libervisco should test it on default install first
01:49 artnay     so how many of you guys are present?
01:49 lukacu     present where?
01:49 Yetzero    i'm here
01:49 artnay     there's lots of nick in here but only a few have participated in discussion
01:49 lukacu     oh...
01:49 klepas     yep
01:49 klepas     i'll dissect the logs later :)
01:49 artnay     did this meeting miss something big time? how do you feel after all this?
01:49 klepas     for minutes purposes
=== BxL boo
01:50 artnay     which subjects would you like to discuss?
01:50 lukacu     artnay: next meeting i guess?
01:51 BxL        wallpaper, or maybe the lack of different wallpaper
01:51 artnay     lukacu: by then we need to have some progress
01:51 Yetzero    so when will it be? next meeting
01:51 klepas     7 days!
01:51 lukacu     :)
01:51 klepas     because we need time for the wiki at least
01:51 Yetzero    same time?
01:52 lukacu     ugh ... thats going to be tough
01:52 klepas     we can vote on it
01:52 klepas     Yetzero: since most people who attended have left
01:53 klepas     let's not decide now
01:53 klepas     we can use the voting wiki page
01:53 artnay     damn UTC 23 ;)
01:53 lukacu     :)
01:53 lukacu     lets use wiki
01:53 klepas     i'll send mails out and get stuff organised later today
01:53 klepas     yep
01:53 klepas     anyhow
01:53 Yetzero    yeah, wiki voting
01:53 lukacu     ok...i think i will have some sleep then
01:53 klepas     yep
01:53 klepas     call it a night
01:53 lukacu     bye all
01:53 klepas     cheers guys
01:53 artnay     but hey
01:54 lukacu     what?
=== klepas klep[a] s
01:54 artnay     if you didn't already, fill your wiki info
01:54 lukacu     what info?
01:54 artnay     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTeam
01:54 lukacu     oh ... that info :)
01:55 artnay     so we can have a idea in which projects are people interested in
01:55 artnay     an... forgive me
01:55 lukacu     ?
01:55 klepas     guys
01:55 klepas     just to let you know
01:56 klepas     meeting is over so we should probably move to #ubuntu-artwork :)
01:56 lukacu     night all then
01:56 libervisco 'night lukacu
01:56 Yetzero    bye
01:57 artnay     after watching my typos and grammar, I think it's a suitable time to get some sleep
01:57 artnay     bye
01:57 libervisco bye artnay

</pre>
