{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Ubuntu vm builder =====

soren published <nowiki>[[http://warma.dk/blog/article/92/|a post]]</nowiki> about his work on the vm-builder package. nijaba is working on updating his JeOS tutorial to use vm-builder. sommer mentioned that he planned to add a note about xen support in the virtulization section of the Ubuntu Server Guide.

ACTION: sommer to update the virtulization section with a reference to xen in vm-builder

===== Review ServerGuide for Intrepid =====

kirkland reviewed the  RAID section of the Server Guide. A section about tomcat has also been added based on the work from Koon. sommer asked what the security question in the installer was exactly doing. No one had a definite answer.

ACTION: mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide

ACTION: sommer to look into the security updates part of the installer to figure out what it does exactly and document it

===== nagios3 in main =====

Koon hadn't had time to ask an archive admin to look into the issue. mathiaz suggested to file a bug explaining why nagios3 didn't need a MIR and ask ubuntu-mir to approve it. Once done, the server-ship seed can be fixed.

ACTION: Koon to file a bug explaining the state of nagios3, subscribe ubuntu-mir to it and get approved

ACTION: mathiaz to update the server-ship to use nagios3 instead of nagios2

===== Beta Freeze =====

mathiaz reminded that BetaFreeze is coming this Thursday in preparation for the Release of 8.10 Beta next week. Helping out with iso testing is welcomed. Coordination is done in #ubuntu-testing and on the <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|Iso testing tracker]]</nowiki>.

===== Ubuntu Server survey =====

nijaba announced that the Ubuntu Server was ready to be launched on Wednesday, September the 24th. Canonical will issue a press release and the Ubuntu marketing team should help to get the word out.

===== Ebox =====

wst reported that ebox is currently broken in intrepid. mathiaz pointed him to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ebox/+archive|ebox PPA]]</nowiki>.

===== Encrypted directory install step during the server install =====

kirkland mentioned <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2008-September/002264.html|the ongoing thread on the ubuntu-server@ mailing list]]</nowiki> about the usefulness of the Encrypted directories setup step in the server install. Discussion is still going on and feedback is welcomed.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 30th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:02. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:02]  * nealmcb cheers for mootbot
[16:02] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <mathiaz> Last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080916
[16:03] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu vm builder
[16:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu vm builder
[16:03] <mathiaz> soren: how is it going ?
[16:03] <soren> Good, thank you.
[16:03] <soren> :)
[16:03] <mathiaz> soren: awesome - ready for the next phase ?
[16:03] <soren> Err... I honestly don't remember what changed since last week.
[16:03] <mathiaz> soren: have you written a blog post ?
[16:04] <soren> Yeah. I've finally posted the blog thing, so with a bit of luck, the bug reports should start trickling in now.
[16:05] <mathiaz> nijaba: what about the tutorial ?
[16:05] <mathiaz> sommer: have you looked at the virtualization section update ?
[16:05] <sommer> mathiaz: should be pretty much good to go
[16:06] <sommer> mathiaz: after soren's blog, it needs something about xen though
[16:06] <sommer> at least a wink and a nod :)
[16:06] <mathiaz> sommer: excellent.
[16:06] <nijaba> mathiaz: I have not have time to move a lot on it while at VMworld, but I have worked a bit on VMbuilder so that missing functions that I need are now there
[16:07] <mathiaz> nijaba: great - so you consider it feature equivalent to ubuntu-vm-builder ?
[16:07] <mathiaz> soren: ^^ ?
[16:07] <nijaba> mathiaz: I need to do a final check, but yes, I beleive it will be
[16:08] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to update the virtulization section with a reference to xen in vm-builder
[16:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to update the virtulization section with a reference to xen in vm-builder
[16:09] <soren> mathiaz: It still neeeds a few things, but it will be really soon.
[16:09] <nijaba> mathiaz: Soren was also talking about providing a wrapper to uvb to call the new one seemlessly
[16:09] <soren> Right.
[16:10] <mathiaz> ok - anything else to add on vm-builder ?
[16:11] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on
[16:11] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:11] <mathiaz> kirkland: reviewed the RAID section ?
[16:11] <sommer> yeppers
[16:11] <kirkland> mathiaz: return true;
[16:11] <mathiaz> Koon: what about tomcat ?
[16:11] <mathiaz> sommer: and I still haven't looked at the ldap section
[16:12] <Koon> section drafted, reviewed and uploaded by sommer
[16:12] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide
[16:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide
[16:12]  * soren apologises for keeping people waiting. I had a knock on the door :(
[16:12] <mathiaz> sommer: anything else on the documentation front ?
[16:12] <sommer> I think things are pretty much good to go
[16:12] <sommer> had a question about the automatic security updates?
[16:13] <sommer> does that use cron, unattended-upgrades?
[16:13] <mathiaz> sommer: I think it installs unattended-upgrade
[16:14] <sommer> mathiaz: I didn't see it during my testing
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: not sure though.
[16:14] <nijaba> sommer: yes it does
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: you could ask the installer team about it
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: or look at the code
[16:15] <sommer> mathiaz: where is the code?
[16:15] <mathiaz> kirkland: do you remember the name of the component in d-i ?
[16:15] <nijaba> sommer: all of it is in the cron it install, IIRC
[16:15] <sommer> cause I'm pretty sure I selected automatic security updates, and didn't see unattended-upgrades installed
[16:15] <mathiaz> kirkland: it's the same one that deals with landscape-client
[16:16] <sommer> nijaba: ah, I might be looking in the wrong place then
[16:16] <nijaba> sommer: then that sounds like a non working feature
[16:16] <nijaba> because I believe u-a should be installed as a result
[16:17] <sommer> nijaba: that's cool, I'll update the installation section to that affect
[16:17] <mathiaz> sommer: I can't find it anymore
[16:17] <sommer> mathiaz: no problem I can do some digging later
[16:17] <mathiaz> sommer: I'd go to #ubuntu-installer and ask about it there
[16:18] <kirkland> mathiaz: pkgsel
[16:18] <sommer> mathiaz: will do
[16:19] <mathiaz> sommer: ^^ pkgsel
[16:19] <mathiaz> kirkland: do you have branch url somewhere ?
[16:19] <kirkland> mathiaz: ??? apt-get source pkgsel
[16:19] <kirkland> mathiaz: bzr get http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/pkgsel/ubuntu
[16:20] <mathiaz> kirkland: ah right - I'm always looking at the bzr branch :D
[16:20] <mathiaz> sommer: anyway - there is good chance you'll find the code above ^^
[16:20] <mathiaz> sommer: anything else for the documentation ?
[16:21] <sommer> mathiaz: I think that's it
[16:21] <kirkland> sommer: if you do find a bug, file it against pkgsel and subscribe me
[16:21] <sommer> kirkland: okay
[16:22] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to look into the security updates part of the installer to figure out what it does exactly and document it
[16:22] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to look into the security updates part of the installer to figure out what it does exactly and document it
[16:22] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:22] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] nagios3 in main
[16:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  nagios3 in main
[16:22] <mathiaz> Koon: ^ ?
[16:23] <Koon> mathiaz: no good so far, had trouble getting a hold on archive admins. nijaba resent a mail recently
[16:23] <Koon> MIR/archive-fixing work is less priority than Ffe processing at that point
[16:24] <Koon> if nobody moves on the email, i'll ping them tomorrow
[16:24] <mathiaz> Koon: have you checked if nagios3 was seeded somewhere ?
[16:24] <Koon> mathiaz: it's not. nagios2 is still in server-ship
[16:24] <mathiaz> Koon: right - so we need to fix that.
[16:25] <Koon> mathiaz: in which order ?
[16:25] <mathiaz> Koon: IIRC we came to the conclusion that we wouldn't need a MIR for nagios3.
[16:25] <Koon> so we can just fix the seed ?
[16:25] <mathiaz> Koon: well - that step 5 according to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionProcess
[16:26] <mathiaz> Koon: step 6 is when the archive admin actually does the move from universe to main
[16:26] <Koon> mathiaz: ok, so someone with powerz[tm] needs to fix the seed to do s/nagios2/nagios3
[16:27] <mathiaz> Koon: ok - I can do that
[16:27] <Koon> (there still is the problem with hardy but that's outside the scope of this agenda item)
[16:27] <mathiaz> Koon: I think we should still file a bug explaining why nagios3 doesn't need a MIR
[16:27]  * mathiaz nods
[16:27] <Koon> mathiaz: i can do that
[16:27] <mathiaz> Koon: and point to the MIR for nagios2
[16:28] <Koon> (tomorrow)
[16:28] <mathiaz> Koon: great - once done ping pitti or doko so that can approve the bug
[16:28] <mathiaz> Koon: so that the archive admin can process the bug quickly
[16:29] <mathiaz> Koon: once you've filed the bug I'll update the seed.
[16:29] <mathiaz> [ACTION] Koon to file a bug explaining the state of nagios3, subscribe ubuntu-mir to it and get approved
[16:29] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Koon to file a bug explaining the state of nagios3, subscribe ubuntu-mir to it and get approved
[16:29] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to update the server-ship to use nagios3 instead of nagios2
[16:29] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to update the server-ship to use nagios3 instead of nagios2
[16:30] <mathiaz> Anything else from last week meeting ?
[16:32] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Beta Freeze
[16:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  Beta Freeze
[16:32] <mathiaz> As you may know we're preparing for the Beta release of intrepid
[16:32] <mathiaz> that is schedule for Thursday next week
[16:32] <mathiaz> so we'll enter Beta Freeze this thursday
[16:33] <mathiaz> That means iso testing will be more than welcomed
[16:34] <mathiaz> #ubuntu-testing is the place to hang out to follow the daily builds
[16:34] <mathiaz> The testing team will probably use a two phase approach:
[16:34] <mathiaz> with the first batch of isos produced this week used for smoke testing
[16:35] <mathiaz> and then another batch of isos produced early next week
[16:36] <nxvl> mathiaz: do we have bugs milestoned for beta?
[16:38] <mathiaz> nxvl: yes - but I don't find the url right now
[16:39] <mathiaz> nxvl: I'll ask aroung and put the url in the minutes
[16:39] <nxvl> ok
[16:39] <nxvl> :D
[16:39] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open discussion
[16:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open discussion
[16:40] <mathiaz> something to add ?
[16:40] <zul> mathiaz: ill poke slangasek about that patch for samba 3.2.4 today
[16:40] <nijaba> Server survey should be up by tomorrow
[16:40] <wst> ebox is completely broken in intrepid
[16:40] <wst> are there any plans to fix that?
[16:40] <mathiaz> wst: have you tried to version from the ebox-dev ppa ?
[16:41] <wst> no will do that
[16:41] <mathiaz> nijaba: are you in touch with the marketing team ?
[16:41] <mathiaz> nijaba: is the launch plan up-to-date ?
[16:42] <nijaba> mathiaz: a bit, was about to send them an announce.
[16:42] <mathiaz> wst: great - foolano asked for sponsoring of ebox into universe
[16:42] <mathiaz> wst: IIRC he was uploading the package to a PPA
[16:42] <nijaba> mathiaz: yes, the plan is up to date, AFAIK and Canonical is issuing a press release
[16:43] <mathiaz> zul: great - keep in mind that Thursday is Beta Freeze
[16:43] <foolano> mathiaz: yep, they are in our PPA. I have to run some automatic tests to see if there's any issue with the latest uploads
[16:43] <zul> mathiaz: yep
[16:43] <mathiaz> zul: but it's not a big issue if 3.2.4 gets in after Beta
[16:43] <mathiaz> foolano: do you have url for the PPA ?
[16:43] <zul> mathiaz: its --><-- this close
[16:44] <wst> just found it launchpad.net/~ebox-unstable
[16:44] <foolano> that's it
[16:45] <mathiaz> wst: foolano: great - could you report if things are working correctly ?
[16:45] <foolano> sure, i'm gonna run the tests right away
[16:46] <mathiaz> Anything else to add ?
[16:47] <wst> will try, never used ebox before actually but will see what happens
[16:48] <sommer> foolano: I just started getting into the ebox code, but if there's anything I can do to help, feel free to ping me
[16:50] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time.
[16:50] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time.
[16:50] <nealmcb> I finally posted minutes from the server team meeting a few weeks ago, fwiw: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080819
[16:51] <mathiaz> nealmcb: great ! Did you send them to the ubuntu-server@ ml ?
[16:51] <nealmcb> nice to see mootbot back - good to have a friend :)
[16:51] <nealmcb> mathiaz: time has moved on... but if you think it would be helpful
[16:51] <foolano> sommer: thanks, I'm writing a new tutorial, more like a step-by-step guide
[16:52] <mathiaz> nealmcb: true - at least it's on the wiki page.
[16:52] <nealmcb> yup
[16:52] <mathiaz> nealmcb: I may push them to the server blog though
[16:52] <nealmcb> nothing seems to still be useful for a current topic.  that sounds good
[16:52] <nealmcb> helps to have the history anyway
[16:53]  * mathiaz nods
[16:53] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time.
[16:53] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time.
[16:54] <mathiaz> same time, same place, next week ?
[16:54] <sommer> sure
[16:54] <kirkland> mathiaz: can i add one thing?
[16:54] <mathiaz> kirkland: sure
[16:55] <kirkland> mathiaz: thought it might be worth mentioning that you posted a poll last week to ubuntu-server@ ML
[16:55] <mathiaz> kirkland: right - I haven't set up a pool in LP
[16:55] <kirkland> mathiaz: no, but you asked for feedback on the ML
[16:55] <mathiaz> kirkland: but send out a request for feedback for the encrypted directory step in the installer
[16:56] <mathiaz> kirkland: do you want to add something in the meeting ?
[16:56] <mathiaz> kirkland: we may run out of time
[16:56] <kirkland> mathiaz: oh, sorry, just "vote!"
[16:56] <kirkland> ;-)
[16:56] <mathiaz> kirkland: It seems that discussion is still going on the ml
[16:57] <kirkland> that's all
[16:58] <mathiaz> great - so see you all next week
[16:58] <mathiaz> same time, same place
[16:58] <nealmcb> thanks!
[16:58] <mathiaz> thanks for coming and happy beta testing !
[16:58] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[16:59] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:59.
</pre>
