{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Update ServerGuide for Jaunty =====

sommer listed all the sections that needed to be reviewed on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyServerGuide|the wiki page]]</nowiki>. Help in testing and giving feedback is welcome.

===== Postfix and Dovecot integration =====

mathiaz announced that ivoks' work on integrating dovecot and postfix had been uploaded. Everything planned for Jaunty has now been implemented.

ScottK mentioned that clamav 0.95 was due out soon and there was a chance it would make it into jaunty post-FF. 0.94.2 is also available from the hardy-backports repository and should be available from dapper-backports soon too.

ACTION: ivoks to create a wiki page for ideas about improving the mail server task post-jaunty.

===== Power management =====

kirkland gave a brief overview of the power management state for server hardware: powernowd is installed by default on -server systems to enable cpu freq scaling. Relevant packages for suspend/hibernate and resume by WoL have also been added to the -server iso. He is mainly interested in feedback on hardware where suspend/hibernate can be verified as (not) working.

He also mentioned that he created a ssh wrapper, which pings first to see if a host is alive. If not a wakeonlan request is sent and after 3 seconds the wrapper tries to login into the machine again. His machines wake from suspend when he needs them and it only takes about 3 seconds for them to wake up which is lot faster than ~60seconds to boot.

He plans to do more tests about power consumption.

ACTION: kirkland to blog about using suspend/resume for servers.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, February 24th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:01. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <Koon> o~
[16:01] <nijaba> ~o~
[16:01] <soren> !"#Â¤
[16:01] <mathiaz> once everyone stopped dancing we can proceed to today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <mathiaz> Last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090210
[16:02] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Update ServerGuide for Jaunty
[16:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Update ServerGuide for Jaunty
[16:03] <mathiaz> sommer: how is doc.ubuntu.com going?
[16:04] <sommer> mathiaz: well, most of the new sections are done
[16:04] <sommer> mathiaz: and most of the bugs are fixed
[16:04] <sommer> some reviews would be cool :)
[16:05] <sommer> mathiaz: I did have a question about the OpenLDAP DIT?
[16:05] <mathiaz> sommer: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyServerGuide lists all the sections that needs review
[16:05] <sommer> yep
[16:06] <mathiaz> sommer: what's your question about the DIT?
[16:06] <sommer> mathiaz: is it going to be part of the slapd package?  or I guess how is the base going to be setup?
[16:06] <mathiaz> sommer: for jaunty nothing changes
[16:07] <sommer> mathiaz: because I think it should simplify the ldap section
[16:07] <mathiaz> sommer: I'll try to get a new upstream version of openldap uploaded before FF
[16:07] <sommer> mathiaz: oh, I thought there was going to be something
[16:07] <mathiaz> sommer: well - nothing more than what was already there
[16:07] <mathiaz> sommer: ie a very basic tree structure.
[16:08] <sommer> mathiaz: I see, that works... answers my question, thanks
[16:09] <mathiaz> sommer: great. Anything else apart asking for reviews of the new sections?
[16:09] <sommer> mathiaz: nope, that should be it
[16:10] <mathiaz> sommer: oh - is doc.ubuntu.com up-to-date?
[16:10] <sommer> mathiaz: ah, I don't think it is yet, but I did hear back from mdke and he's working on it
[16:10] <mathiaz> sommer: ok great.
[16:10] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:11] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Postfix and Dovecot integration
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Postfix and Dovecot integration
[16:11] <ivoks> right on time :)
[16:11] <mathiaz> ivoks: good work on that one.
[16:11] <lamont> \o/
[16:11] <ivoks> mathiaz: it's not done yet :)
[16:11] <mathiaz> ivoks: there are still some things to be fixed
[16:11] <ivoks> mathiaz: we have one bug and couple of issues
[16:11] <mathiaz> A post on the ubuntuserver blog has been published: http://ubuntuserver.wordpress.com/2009/02/13/an-improved-mail-server-stack-in-jaunty-dovecot-and-postfix-integration/
[16:11] <ivoks> i've prepared a debdiff, but i would like a review on it, since this is my first binary-indep package
[16:12] <mathiaz> lamont: ScottK: do you have comments on the new dovecot-postfix package?
[16:12] <ScottK> mathiaz: I haven't had a chance to really look at it.
[16:12] <lamont> ditto
[16:12] <ivoks> don't, untill new version is uploaded :)
[16:12] <mathiaz> ivoks: attach it to a bug, and subscribe ubuntu-main-sponsor to ask for sponsorship
[16:13] <ivoks> will do
[16:13] <mathiaz> ivoks: apart from testing is there anything else to be done on this topic for jaunty?
[16:14] <ivoks> not really
[16:14] <ivoks> there are plans for jaunty+1, but that's another story
[16:14] <ivoks> since we are in FF
[16:14] <mathiaz> ivoks: sure - where are these plan kept?
[16:14] <ivoks> nowhere atm
[16:14] <mathiaz> ivoks: is there a wiki page somehwere?
[16:14] <ivoks> not yet
[16:15] <ivoks> basicaly, integrating amavis with these two
[16:15] <ivoks> and myabe having a 'supported' webmail infrastructure
[16:15] <mathiaz> ivoks: ok - it may be worth creating a wiki page under w.u.c/ServerTeam/MailServer
[16:16] <ivoks> good idea
[16:16] <mathiaz> ivoks: as a braindump page to keep track of interesting ideas
[16:16] <mathiaz> ivoks: just bullet points - the interesting ideas can then be turned into specs for the next cycle
[16:16] <ivoks> right
[16:17] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ivoks to create a wiki page for ideas about improving the mail server task
[16:17] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ivoks to create a wiki page for ideas about improving the mail server task
[16:17] <mathiaz> ivoks: ScottK: anything else to report in the mail server area for Jaunty?
[16:17] <ivoks> it will rock.
[16:18] <ivoks> :)
[16:18] <ScottK> It might be worth a mention that dkim-milter now uses unbound for DNS.
[16:19] <ScottK> Unbound is a relatively new DNS library that supports DNSSEC.
[16:19] <ScottK> Also just as a warning, clamav 0.95 is due out soon.
[16:19] <ScottK> It, of course, breaks all the rdepends.
[16:20] <mathiaz> ScottK: hare you blogged about it? IIRC I saw something mentioning about it
[16:20] <ScottK> Yes
[16:20] <mathiaz> ScottK: it may have been in the changelog though.
[16:20] <ScottK> They promised though that this is the one true interface redesign and they won't have to do it again.
[16:20] <ScottK> They've never promised this before.
[16:20] <ScottK> So expect some post-FF fun with this one.
[16:20] <mathiaz> ScottK: ok - we'll see how things will turn out.
[16:21] <mathiaz> anything else to add on this front?
[16:21] <ScottK> In related news clamav 0.94.2 is now available in hardy-backports
[16:21] <ScottK> We're about ready to push it to dapper-backports too.
[16:21] <ScottK> That's it.
[16:21] <mathiaz> ScottK: great - thanks for the good work!
[16:21] <mathiaz> ivoks: ^^ !
[16:21] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Power management
[16:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Power management
[16:21] <mathiaz> kirkland: anything new on this front?
[16:24] <mathiaz> ok - kirkland seems to have lost power
[16:24] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:24] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] virtualization
[16:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  virtualization
[16:24] <soren> \o/
[16:24] <mathiaz> soren: what's new there?
[16:25] <soren> Lots of stuff going on. We've got a very fresh kvm, libvirt, virt-manager (currently uninstallable due to old virtinst... working on it)..
[16:25] <Brazen> yippee
[16:25] <soren> ...I'm working on some updates for VMBuilder. Among the new things is support for VMWare ESXi.
[16:25] <soren> ..I hope to manage to rework a few things that need some love before FF. One thing I'd like to do is to make it able to build for multiple hypervisors in the same run.
[16:26] <soren> Also, we've been pushing a lot of cloud computing stuff.
[16:26] <soren> A month ago (or thereabouts), I uploaded OpenNebula, and we're currently working hard to get Eucalyptus uploaded before FeatureFreeze.
[16:27] <mathiaz> soren: are there plans to blog about all this new things?
[16:27] <soren> Eucalyptus has a lot of Java dependencies, so it has been a bit of a rough ride, but upstream is very happy to work with us and are making excellent progress.
[16:27] <soren> mathiaz: Just after featurefreeze, yes.
[16:27] <mathiaz> soren: or give an overview about all these new things?
[16:27] <soren> Yes.
[16:28] <soren> I want people to test all of this much more, so I'll be posting about clever ways you can use OpenNebula for testing (I'd like to work with you on that).
[16:28] <mathiaz> soren: awesome - we'll have to wait for next week to get all details then:)
[16:28] <soren> I've been a bit hesitant to blog about Eucalyptus, since it's still vapourware.
[16:28] <soren> But eucalyptus is in the archive now..
[16:29] <soren> Most of it's build-dependencies are, too, so we're inches away from a usable package :)
[16:29] <soren> Koon is doing fantastic work on the Java dependencies.
[16:29]  * soren hugs Koon
[16:29] <soren> s/it's/its/ a few lines ago..
[16:30] <soren> Hmm... I think that's all for now. I'll be blogging about stuff as it becomes available.
[16:30]  * ivoks claps
[16:31] <mathiaz> soren: awesome. Thanks for giving this short status update.
[16:31] <soren> Certainly
[16:31] <nealmcb> wow
[16:31] <sommer> soren: should we have info in the serverguide about the cloud stuff, or is it mainly ec2 at this point?
[16:32] <kirkland> mathiaz: sorry, my network dropped;  back now
[16:33] <soren> sommer: We definitely should.
=== dholbach_ is now known as dholbach
[16:33] <zul> we cant mention the ec2-ami-tools in the eucalpytus stuff though
[16:33] <soren> sommer: Things should be stabilizing enough within the next week for it to actually make sense to start writing docs for it :)
[16:34] <sommer> soren: sounds good, I'll be patient
[16:35] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on then
[16:35] <sommer> zul: gotcha, we'll just make it generic
[16:35] <mathiaz> since we'll have to wait for FF to get a good overview of the new virtualization features in jaunty :)
[16:35] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Power management
[16:35] <MootBot> New Topic:  Power management
[16:35] <mathiaz> kirkland: now that you're back - any news on this front?
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: i have pwrkap and powerman are two new packages, added to the archive today
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: powernowd has been added to the server seed, to enable cpu freq scaling by default on ubuntu servers
[16:37] <kirkland> mathiaz: pm-utils and ethtool have been added to the server-ship seed, which are what's needed for suspend/hibernate and resume by WoL
[16:37] <kirkland> mathiaz: as well as wakeonlan, promoted to main, and on the server-ship seed
[16:37] <kirkland> mathiaz: i need to write up some instructions on how to test this
[16:37] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm interested in feedback on hardware where suspend/hibernate can be verified as working
[16:38] <kirkland> mathiaz: hw which is *not* working, i'm interested in that too... but we probably won't focus on fixing those until next cycle
[16:38] <mathiaz> kirkland: great - so the current plan for jaunty is to have powernowd installed by default and all the other suspend/hibernate components available from the cd?
[16:38] <kirkland> mathiaz: correct
[16:38] <kirkland> mathiaz: suspend is really cool, btw.
[16:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: for my home network, i created a ssh wrapper, which pings first to see if alive
[16:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: if not, sends a wakeonlan, waits 3 seconds, and ssh's again
[16:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: my machines wake from suspend when i need them :-)
[16:39] <nealmcb> sweet
[16:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: and it only takes about 3 seconds for them to wake up which is lot faster than ~60seconds to boot
[16:40] <kirkland> mathiaz: i put a power meter on them too
[16:40] <mathiaz> kirkland: awesome!
[16:40] <kirkland> mathiaz: running, they're about 50W-80W (depending on cpu freq, load, hd, cd, etc)
[16:40] <kirkland> mathiaz: suspended, they're at about 11w
[16:41] <mathiaz> kirkland: that seems like a good topic for a blog post
[16:41] <mathiaz> kirkland: a good use case for supsend/resume for servers
[16:41] <kirkland> mathiaz: cool, will do.
[16:42] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to blog about using suspend/resume for servers
[16:42] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to blog about using suspend/resume for servers
[16:42] <nealmcb> ubuntu - saving energy and the climate!
[16:42] <kirkland> penguins
[16:42] <nealmcb> lol
[16:42] <Brazen> I don't suspend, but I do set hdparm to power down the harddrives...
[16:43] <ivoks> my server doesn't do suspend :(
[16:43] <mathiaz> ivoks: did you report it to kirkland ?
[16:43] <ivoks> kirkland: fix it
[16:43] <ivoks> mathiaz: just did :)
[16:44] <kirkland> ivoks: let me set up a wiki page to track this
[16:44] <mathiaz> kirkland: how do you keep track which hw is works/doesn't?
[16:44] <kirkland> ivoks: i'll ping you to fill in your info
[16:44] <ivoks> kirkland: sure
[16:44] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm going to do it by wiki, for starters
[16:44] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - one wiki page seems a good place to start.
[16:44] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'll link off of the laptop suspend page
[16:45] <mathiaz> kirkland: ah ok - there is a suspend page for laptop already.
[16:45] <ivoks> another way of waking up server is IPMI
[16:45] <Brazen> There's also multi-core power savings: 'echo 1 > /sys/devices/system/cpu/sched_mc_power_savings'
[16:45] <ivoks> any chance to see ipmitool in main?
[16:45] <Brazen> and laptop-mode, which I do use on my server: 'echo 5 > /proc/sys/vm/laptop_mode'
[16:46] <kirkland> ivoks: i'm not too familiar with ipmi
[16:46] <ivoks> dell servers support ipmi; i'm not sure about wake on lan
[16:46] <mathiaz> ivoks: ipmitools aren't part of openipmi?
[16:46] <ivoks> mathiaz: no, ipmitool can use openipmi, but doesn't depend on it (it can use real hardware)
[16:46] <mathiaz> apparently no
[16:47] <ivoks> openipmi is just support for ipmi on local machine
[16:47] <mathiaz> ivoks: does ipmitool provide cmd lines that openipmi can't?
[16:47] <ivoks> ipmitool can be used to connect to other machines
[16:47] <ivoks> mathiaz: yes; serial over lan, for example
[16:48] <mathiaz> nijaba: would ipmitool be useful in main?
[16:48] <ivoks> with openipmi you can't do anything outside local machine
[16:48] <ivoks> they don't exclude each other
[16:48] <nijaba> mathiaz: i would definitely think so
[16:49] <mathiaz> ok - we can always move ipmitool to main after FF
[16:49] <mathiaz> to get started, a MainInclusionReport has to be written
[16:49] <ivoks> right, but it's not being developed for 2 years :/
[16:50] <mathiaz> ivoks: hm - right.
[16:50] <mathiaz> ivoks: if upstream is not very active it may not be worth
[16:50] <mathiaz> ivoks: and we can't really do anything about it :/
[16:50] <ivoks> true
[16:50] <ivoks> sorry, my bad
[16:50] <ivoks> there are new releases
[16:50] <ivoks> http://sourceforge.net/projects/ipmitool/
[16:50] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://sourceforge.net/projects/ipmitool/
[16:50] <mathiaz> ivoks: anyway - we can always think about it after FF
[16:50] <ivoks> ok
[16:51] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:51] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:51] <mathiaz> anything else to add?
[16:52] <sommer> mathiaz: there was that reply about an Ubuntu Directory Service
[16:53] <mathiaz> sommer: right - I was going to reply to point out to the ubuntu-directory@ ml list and LP team
[16:53] <sommer> ah, that works :)
[16:53] <mathiaz> sommer: and also mention that we're about to enter FF so now is not the most appropriate time to start a discussion for jaunty
[16:55] <sommer> true... I didn't have anything else
[16:56] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on to the last item on the agenda:
[16:57] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:57] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:57] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place?
[16:57] <ivoks> +
[16:57] <sommer> sure
[16:59] <mathiaz> ok - then.
[16:59] <mathiaz> see you all next week, same time, same place
[16:59] <mathiaz> get ready for FF and make jaunty rock!
[16:59] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[16:59] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:59.
</pre>
