{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Sep 9th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
<jamespage> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
 oh joy
<smoser> o/
<matsubara> o/
* jamespage really does not want to write the minutes manually
--> jjohansen (~jj@static-50-53-48-226.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<rharper> cut-n paste?
<jamespage> AlanBell, are you someone who might know where meetingology has gone?
--> hallyn (~sehh33ad@ubuntu/member/hallyn) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<jamespage> oh well then lets go
# topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
     gaughen bug utlemming about bug 1360471 
<ubottu> bug 1360471 in walinuxagent (Ubuntu Trusty) "[SRU] update walinuxagent to 2.0.8" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1360471
<jamespage> gaughen, utlemming?
--> sehh (~sehh@2601:d:9680:afc:6d25:249f:e3c4:76cd) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 utlemming (~utlemming@80.240.143.208) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<-- utlemming has quit (Changing host)
--> utlemming (~utlemming@ubuntu/member/utlemming) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<jamespage>      gaughen bug utlemming about bug 1360471 
 utlemming?
 https://launchpad.net/bugs/1360471
 (previous actions)
<utlemming> jamespage: in progress
<jamespage> awespme
# topic Utopic Development
# link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
 so UI freeze on the 11th - not so interesting for serer
 server rather
<smoser> jamespage, i'll folllow up and bother utlemming.
<jamespage> Final beta 25th - so keep that in mind
<smoser> jamespage, actually. utlemming got those uploaded yesterday.
<zul> python-osprofiler, python-lxc, or openstack-granite hasnt been reviewed by an archive admin
<jamespage> smoser, yeah - needed a re-upload I think
<utlemming> jamespage, smoser: they are now in proposed and will be tested this week
<jamespage> ok
 zul, have you been hassling the release team? I guess they need to ack first right?
<zul> jamespage: i have
<jamespage> good-oh
<zul> jamespage: and then do to be acked first
 jamespage: there is a whole bunch of js stuff that need FFE for horizon as well
<jamespage> we really still do need someone on the release team for server stuff
<zul> we do
<jamespage> I talk to gaughen
# action jamespage to discuss release team assignments with gaughen (and release team)
# subtopic Release Bugs 
# link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
<rharper> p
<jamespage> looks like a few bugs need some attention
 bug 1350810
<ubottu> bug 1350810 in byobu (Ubuntu Utopic) "Shift-F2 no longer working in Byobu in Ubuntu 14.10 (utopic) with tmux 1.9" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1350810
<-- jjohansen has quit (Quit: Leaving.)
<jamespage> I'll ping kirkland about that
 bug 1347567 needs an upload
<ubottu> bug 1347567 in openstack-trove (Ubuntu Utopic) "trove unit tests disabled" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1347567
<jamespage> zul or I can deal with that
<coreycb> jamespage, I think that's merged
<jamespage> bug 1330168 is blocked by a compiler regression on arm64 right now
<ubottu> bug 1330168 in mysql-5.6 (Ubuntu Utopic) "Please update to 5.6.19" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1330168
<jamespage> coreycb, it is - just needs releasing
 thats all the highs - I'd encourage people to actively do their bug triage rota scheduling and make sure any 14.10 relevant bugs get attention
# subtopic Blueprints
# link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
 wow - we have quite alot of TODO's still
 as we are past feature freeze please review your assigned blueprints for any features that now need to be postponed for 14.10 release - I know I have a few.
# topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
 no caribou today - he had nothing to raise
# topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
<psivaa> jamespage: no updates from us :)
<jamespage> good-oh
# topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) 
<kickinz1> There has been a patch submitted for bcache + virtio.
<jamespage> awesome
 kickinz1, hows bcache looking generally
 ?
<kickinz1> Quite good.
<jamespage> awesome
<kickinz1> But not sure if it is mature enough to telle everybody to use
<jamespage> ack
--> jjohansen (~jj@static-50-53-48-226.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<jamespage> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
 anyone going to anything interesting?
<gnuoy> There's a 0mq sprint at some point
<kickinz1> There is also the sd conference.
 s/sd/sdn
 Not sure it is usefull to go...
<jamespage> anyone going to the SDN conference?
 nope - ok
 moving on
# topic Open Discussion
 anything from anybody?
# topic Announce next meeting date and time
 same time next week - see you then
</pre>
