{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Karmic RC (ttx)
** Review of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus|RC targets and remaining karmic-nominated bugs]]</nowiki>
** Test coverage
* Review progress made on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki>:
** Eucalyptus status, including review of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eucalyptus|open issues]]</nowiki> (kirkland, ttx)
** UEC images, including review of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=uec-images|active bugs]]</nowiki> (smoser)
** EC2 AMIs, including review of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=ec2-images|active bugs]]</nowiki> (smoser)
** Virtual appliance
** Reference appliance (soren)
** Image store (niemeyer)
** UEC Documentation
** What needs to be documented, where, and by whom?  How can ''you'' help? (kirkland)
** Other specs from the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki>
* Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs: http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Open Discussion
* Agree on next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* kirkland to adapt help.ubuntu.com VM recipe(s?) to use libvirt: Deferred

ACTION: kirkland to adapt help.ubuntu.com VM recipe(s?) to use libvirt

* zul to fix m2crypto test suite and ensure that MIR is processed: Done
* mathiaz to add test case for image store in testcases wiki: Not done yet

ACTION: mathiaz to add test case for image store in testcases wiki

* zul to add missing server-ship packages to ubuntu-server: Done

===== Karmic RC =====

Review of remaining karmic-nominated bugs:
* Bug:455832: Not a regression and not encountered in normal use: untargeted for release
* Bug:451881: Only affects UEC, and not EC2, not critical for karmic: untargeted for release
* Bug:410886: vmbuilder needs to have the patch from trunk merged into it: milestoned and assigned to soren
* Bug:362511: Low importance, won't get fixed for karmic: untargeted for release
* Bug:453456 and Bug:455293: see below
* Bug:455411: Harmless to users, too late to fix: untargeted for release
* Bug:453495: Specific to qemu-only arches, can be dealt with postrelease: untargeted for release
* Bug:453453: doesn't seem realistic to do anything about this bug for 9.10: left at kirkland's discretion
* Bug:453467: not 9.10-critical, untargeted for release
* Bug:407949: milestoned to release, assigned to smoser, will trigger a UEC/EC2 image respin

Review of the <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all|Ubuntu-Server-relevant tests]]</nowiki> on the ISO tracker revealed a few test cases that were not covered by any team member:
* netboot: Daviey and kirkland will cover those, as they have a local mirror
* upgrades: zul will cover those cases. This involves defining a test procedure, as the current one is Desktop-oriented.

ACTION: zul to write up server upgrade test case

===== Eucalyptus status =====

We fixed ~36 bugs in 9 uploads last week. A few remaining bugs were mentioned during the review:

* Bug:455816: Given that this is globally harmless and difficult to test between RC and release, it's unlikely that this will be fixed for release. mathiaz will validate the fix though.
* Bug:453456: Would be fixed only if log rotation is proved to be non-functional, and can be fixed in a SRU
* Bug:455293: Fix is committed but is not worth a new upload. Will get in only if something else gets fixed
* Bug:455625: This bug seems bad, though it still needs to be reproduced. Would get fixed in a Karmic SRU. nurmi is looking into reproducing it.
* Bug:452556 and Bug:444352: ttx hits those regularly in ISO testing, the first one would warrant a note in release notes, this it seems systematic (task opened)

ACTION: nurmi to investigate bug 455625

===== UEC/EC2 images =====

This was reviewed separately and found to be in good shape.

===== Reference UEC appliance =====

The demo will very closely resemble what soren posted the week before last. The completely unpersistent appliance will be ready by Thursday.

ACTION: soren to complete demo virtual appliance

===== UEC appliance store =====

Integration with the "fake" test store was successfully tested. This needs now to be tested ASAP against the production server, if available. It can be tseted against Soren's demo appliance but also the stock UEC image.

ACTION: mdz to chase down details on production image store

ACTION: mathiaz to test UEC integration with production image store

===== UEC documentation =====

Current community doc (http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC and http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC/PackageInstall) needs to be worked on. kirkland, nurmi, mathiaz and ttx stepped up to help in that area. Discussion on splitting the work amongst this team will be held on a mailing-list of kirkland's choice.

===== Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs review =====

Bug:455873 was assigned to zul, but since it is for hardy, release-related tasks should take precedence.

===== AOB =====

ScottK mentioned that clamav 0.95.3 will likely be released on Monday, so it'll go to -proposed. 

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, October 27th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:05] <mdz> #startmeeting
[16:05] <kirkland> o/
[16:05] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:05. The chair is mdz.
[16:05] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:06] <mdz> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:06] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:06] <mdz> [topic] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:06] <mdz> ACTION: kirkland to adapt help.ubuntu.com VM recipe(s?) to use libvirt
[16:06] <kirkland> mdz: not yet
[16:06] <mdz> [action]  kirkland to adapt help.ubuntu.com VM recipe(s?) to use libvirt
[16:06] <kirkland> mdz: i plan on doing some documentation this week
[16:06] <MootBot> ACTION received:   kirkland to adapt help.ubuntu.com VM recipe(s?) to use libvirt
[16:06] <mdz> ACTION: zul to fix m2crypto test suite and ensure that MIR is processed
[16:07] <mdz> zul: ?
[16:07] <zul> testsuite deferred to lucid but its in main now
[16:07] <mdz> zul: is there a bug open to make sure we revisit the test suite for lucid?
[16:07] <zul> mdz: yes
[16:08] <mdz> zul:  let me know what the bug number is when you can pull it up
[16:08] <mdz> ACTION: mathiaz to add test case for image store in testcases wiki
[16:08] <mathiaz> mdz: not done yet.
[16:08] <mdz> [action] mathiaz to add test case for image store in testcases wiki
[16:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to add test case for image store in testcases wiki
[16:08] <mdz> [topic] Karmic RC (ttx)
[16:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Karmic RC (ttx)
[16:09] <ttx> ACTION: zul to add missing server-ship packages to ubuntu-server
[16:09] <ttx> you missed that one ^
[16:09] <zul> mdz: oh kees fixed it #451998
[16:09] <zul> ttx/mdz: thats done as well
[16:09] <mdz> ttx: oh, thanks
[16:10] <ttx> I wanted us to revisit the list of bugs targeted to release and current targets of opportunity (karmic-nominated bugs)
[16:10] <mdz> ttx: urls?
[16:10] <ttx> I pulled up a list at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus
[16:10] <ttx> since some of them are of interest to us but not assigned to a team member
=== fader_ is now known as fader|away
[16:11] <mdz> bug 452665 is fixed, I believe
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 452665 in eucalyptus "eucalyptus-cloud runs without any option set" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/452665
[16:11] <mdz> oh, they are listed as fixed ,NM
[16:11] <ttx> so jdstrand added a release-targeted bug, bug 455832
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 455832 in libvirt "segfault when attaching disk with same physical device" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/455832
[16:11] <mdz> I had not seen 455832 before
[16:11] <ttx> its quite recent
[16:11] <mdz> ah, just filed 17  hours ago
[16:12] <ttx> also not assigned to anyone -- I was considering removing the milestone and keeping int as a target of opportunity
[16:12] <ttx> unless someone says its a release blocker
[16:12] <mdz> kirkland: is this related to bug 432154 or bug 419590?
[16:12] <kirkland> ttx: i can attempt to reproduce that, and look at it, if it's release critical
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 432154 in qemu "dynamic block device attach/detach not functional with karmic KVM" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/432154
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 419590 in qemu "kvm core dump on hotplug (pci_add)" [Wishlist,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/419590
[16:12] <mdz> it is not marked as a regression
[16:12] <kirkland> mdz: possibly; the consensus from upstream was that dynamic block storage attach/detach are not heavily used or tested
[16:13] <jdstrand> the attach/detach work
[16:13] <kirkland> mdz: given eucalyptus' dependency on that, it might be worth us investing some time/effort testing and developing this upstream
[16:13] <mdz> jdstrand: is it a regression?
[16:13] <jdstrand> that is what I was testing, and I accidentally attached a device two times in a row with the same target dev
[16:13] <jdstrand> and it segfaulted
[16:13] <jdstrand> I did not test on jaunty, but I can
[16:13] <smoser> it is not a regression from jaunty
[16:14] <mdz> ok, in that case I would not  consider it critical for karmic
[16:14] <ttx> if its avoidable in normal use, I would not keep it as a RC bug
[16:14] <smoser> it was at best random success there.
[16:14] <mdz> it likely doesn't affect eucalyptus
[16:14] <mdz> and it doesn't sound like a "normal" use case
[16:14] <jdstrand> I can say that anyone in the libvirtd group, or with qemu+ssh//<host>/system access can DoS libvirtd with this
[16:14] <ttx> mdz: should we still keep it as a karmic-nominated bug ?
[16:15] <mdz> ttx: smoser and I discussed bug 451881. since it only affects UEC, and not EC2, it is not critical for karmic (though he will continue to investigate)
[16:15] <ttx> i.e. moving it to the next list ?
[16:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 451881 in ec2-init "ssh public key fingerprint not available on console in UEC environement" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/451881
[16:15] <jdstrand> if a user or application misbehaves libvirtd goes down
[16:15] <mdz> ttx: no, I suggest we wontfix it for karmic
[16:15] <ttx> the "Other targeted bugs" should onnly contain bugs that we may want to fix before release
[16:16] <ttx> mdz ok
[16:16] <mdz> soren: how serious is bug 410886?
[16:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 410886 in vm-builder "VMBuilder doesn't work with grub2" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/410886
[16:16] <mdz> it's marked High and assigned to cjwatson
[16:16] <soren> mdz: Not at all anymore.
[16:16] <ttx> 455832 and 451881 > wontfix for karmic
[16:17] <mdz> in fact he closed it in a grub2 upload
[16:17] <mdz> grub2 (1.97~beta3-1ubuntu8) karmic; urgency=low
[16:17] <mdz>   [ Colin Watson ]
[16:17] <mdz>   * debian/control: Conflict with grub (<< 0.97-54) as well as grub-legacy
[16:17] <mdz>     (see LP #410886).
[16:17] <mdz> soren: can it be closed, or is there still an issue here?
[16:17] <cjwatson> no, that didn't close 410886
[16:17] <mdz> cjwatson: ah, I see
[16:17] <soren> mdz: There's still an issue, but it's not critical anymore.
[16:17] <cjwatson> the vmbuilder package needs to have the patch from trunk merged into it, does it not?
[16:17] <cjwatson> did that happen?
[16:17] <soren> I thought it did. I can check up on it.
[16:18] <cjwatson> the patch> to make it use grub from the chroot rather than the host
[16:18] <soren> Right.
[16:18] <cjwatson> I saw a comment in the last few days suggesting it hadn't been
[16:18] <soren> Ah.
[16:18]  * soren adds to TODO
[16:18] <mdz> soren: TODO->post-karmic?
[16:18] <mdz> i.e. we can untarget this bug?
[16:18] <cjwatson> it should be pre-karmic
[16:18] <mdz> ack
[16:18] <soren> Pre-karmic.
[16:18] <mdz> milestoned and assigned to soren
[16:18] <cjwatson> assuming it's what I think it is, vm-builder only works if you have grub (1) installed in the host
[16:19] <mdz> bug 362511: OpenSSH force-command unable to pass arguments along to internal-sftp (cjwatson)
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 362511 in openssh "force-command unable to pass arguments along to internal-sftp" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/362511
[16:19] <cjwatson> I'd entirely forgotten about that bug, TBH; I don't think it's likely to happen for karmic, unless somebody thinks it's urgent enough to steal it
[16:19] <mdz> cjwatson: given this is marked Low, I'm assuming it's post-karmic now
[16:19] <mdz> the next two eucalyptus bugs ttx and I already discussed
[16:19] <ttx> ok, wontfixed for karmic
[16:19] <mdz> next is bug 455411
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 455411 in qemu-kvm "Conffiles from kvm are left around on upgrade from Jaunty" [Low,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/455411
[16:20] <mdz> kirkland: given that's Low, I'm assuming it's missed the cut now?
[16:20] <kirkland> mdz: ttx filed it, thought it was low, i didn't get to it yesterday
[16:20] <ttx> mdz: its low because its harmless to load the kvm module twice
[16:21] <mdz> ttx: wontfix for karmic then
[16:21] <ttx> ok
[16:21] <mdz> (waiting for LP)
[16:21] <ttx> mdz: i'll do it
[16:21] <mdz> bug 453495 is next
[16:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 453495 in virt-manager "virt-manager does not honor other architectures when using qemu" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/453495
[16:21] <ttx> taht's another recent one filed by jdstrabd
[16:21] <ttx> jdstrand, even
[16:22] <kirkland> those other arches are in qemu-kvm-extras, in universe; very low priority, IMHO
[16:22] <mdz> jdstrand: I don't understand the problem from your description
[16:22] <mdz> oh, it's not selecting arm
[16:22] <jdstrand> mdz: if you use kvm, you can specify the arch, i686 or x86_64
[16:22] <mdz> right
[16:23] <mdz> agreed, this doesn't sound High and we can deal with it post-Karmic
[16:23] <jdstrand> mdz: when using qemu, you can specify the others in virt-manager, but the resulting VM is x86_64
[16:23] <mdz> bug 453453 is another jdstrand libvirt bug
[16:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 453453 in libvirt "libvirt sometimes hangs when using pulseaudio" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/453453
[16:23] <jdstrand> (I put it high for virt-manager, but realize it is universe)
[16:23] <mdz> jdstrand: right, I understand now, thanks
[16:24] <ttx> mdz: 453495 wontfix for karmic
[16:24] <mdz> jdstrand: given it doesn't affect primary functionality (only functionality used with a universe package), I think we should consider it lower importance
[16:24] <jdstrand> sure. I am not suggesting it take priority over other items
[16:24] <mdz> jdstrand: you marked this a regression; when did it last work?
[16:25] <jdstrand> mdz: I am almost sure it worked in jaunty, but I didn't test it recently
[16:25] <jdstrand> (we are still talking about 453495, right?)
[16:25] <jdstrand> mdz: I can retest it
[16:25] <jdstrand> (on jaunty(
[16:25] <jdstrand> )
[16:25] <mdz> jdstrand: (yes)
[16:26] <mdz> but now we need to talk about 453453
[16:26] <kirkland> sounds support has come and gone, come and gone in karmic
[16:26] <mdz> this is Medium, which I agree with; not sure why it's targeted to Karmic though
[16:26] <mdz> oh, because it's a regression
[16:26] <mdz> jdstrand: er, yes, my last question was about 453453, not 453495
[16:26] <kirkland> i have verified that sound works when running kvm from the command line
[16:26] <kirkland> but not when through libvirt
[16:27] <jdstrand> actually, I see it work in libvirt too
[16:27] <mdz> kirkland: when run through libvirt, does sound just not work, or does it make the VM unusable?
[16:27] <jdstrand> I think it is highly dependent on what is going on in the host as to whether or not it hangs the guest when initializing the sound device or if there is sound at all in the guest
[16:27] <kirkland> mdz: i saw the hang jdstrand mentions for the first time on Friday
[16:27] <kirkland> mdz: it's a race or something; non-deterministic failure
[16:28] <jdstrand> I agree with kirkland's assessment
[16:28]  * kirkland borrowed jdstrand's assessment, probably :-)
[16:28] <mdz> kirkland: if it's come and gone, was there an earlier bug report about it?
[16:28] <jdstrand> probably why it sounded *so right* ;)
[16:29] <kirkland> mdz: no
[16:29] <mdz> at this point it doesn't seem realistic to do anything about this bug for 9.10, though we could consider it for SRU
[16:29] <mdz> kirkland: your call; please either milestone for karmic-updates or wontfix for karmic
[16:29] <mdz> need to keep moving
[16:29] <mdz> bug 453467
[16:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 453467 in virt-manager "virt-manager traceback if select an architecture on VM creation" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/453467
[16:29] <kirkland> mdz: sound issues in VM's are *extremely* low priority, for me
[16:30] <mdz> this is Low
[16:30] <mdz> this seems related to the other bug, selecting an architecture
[16:30] <mdz> doesn't seem 9.10-critical to me
[16:31] <mdz> bug 407949
[16:31] <ttx> mdz: agreed, wontfixing for karmic as well
[16:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 407949 in ec2-init "ec2-init: ec2-set-defaults needs better defaults for non US/EU regions" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/407949
[16:31] <jdstrand> mdz: that may be true, but I think it is more a gui failure in virt-manager, though I haven't looked at it too closely
[16:31] <mdz> smoser?
[16:32] <smoser> i just pushed  a branch with a suggested fix.
[16:32] <smoser> its very trivial, just catch the error and fall back.
[16:32] <smoser> rather than not catching error and failing with python trace
[16:32] <mdz> smoser: does it cause the UEC images to fail to initialize correctly?
[16:32] <ttx> smoser: that would involve a UEC/EC2 image respin, but not an ISO respin, right
[16:33] <mdz> ttx: correct
=== bdmurray_ is now known as bdmurray
[16:33] <smoser> it does cause UEC images to fail to initialize correctly.  They do not get locale set.
[16:33] <smoser> i believe that they still have a functional /etc/apt/sources.list though.
[16:34] <mdz> smoser: ok, milestoned for 9.10
[16:34]  * Daviey noticed user-data not working as expected yesterday in ec2.
[16:34] <ttx> I propose we skip the UEC/EC2 release process discussion and do it after meeting with smoser
[16:34] <ttx> mdz: Test coverage ?
[16:34] <mdz> ttx: yes, I emailed you with some notes about this
[16:35] <soren> "Test coverage"?
[16:35] <mdz> ISO testing
[16:35] <soren> Ah.
[16:35] <ttx> Some server-related tests in the ISO tracker are not covered by a team member
[16:35] <mdz> the list of deliverables which need testing is at http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[16:35] <mdz> don't worry about ARM for the moment
[16:36] <mdz> the main gaps are:
[16:36] <mdz> 1. netboot
[16:36] <mdz> 2. upgrades
[16:36] <mdz> who has a setup where they can test netboot installations?
[16:36] <mdz> this is fastest with a local mirror, but can be done over the Internet as well with a netboot setup
[16:37] <Daviey> mdz: \o
[16:37] <kirkland> mdz: o/
[16:37] <mdz> Daviey: kirkland: thanks for stepping up
[16:37] <ttx> I can do upgrade testing, though the test contents are undefined right now
[16:37] <davmor2> mdz: I'm just finishing the netboot's
[16:37] <mdz> upgrade testing is fairly straightforward and can be done in a VM
[16:37] <mdz> ttx: yes, we need to get a test case written
[16:37] <zul> ill do that one
[16:38] <davmor2> mdz: at least for i386 and amd 64
[16:38] <mdz> zul: can you write up a test case which is equivalent to the desktop one, but for a server install?
[16:38] <zul> mdz: sure
[16:38] <mdz> davmor2: great
[16:38] <mdz> [action] zul to write up server upgrade test case
[16:38] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to write up server upgrade test case
[16:38] <mdz> ttx: ok to move on?
[16:38] <ttx> yep
[16:39] <mdz> [topic] Review progress made on the Roadmap:
[16:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review progress made on the Roadmap:
[16:39] <mdz> [topic] eucalyptus status
[16:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  eucalyptus status
[16:39] <ttx> I have a few eucalyptus bugs I wanted to bring up
[16:39] <mdz> kirkland, ttx?
[16:39] <kirkland> mdz: well, we've continued to improve
[16:39] <ttx> current status is: we might still try to fix bug 455816 but its unlikely
[16:40] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 455816 in eucalyptus "When installing a UEC cluster, the prompt for the private interface is displayed after the "Installation complete" dialog" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/455816
[16:40] <ttx> and we would fix bug 453456 if log rotation isn't functional
[16:40] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 453456 in eucalyptus "excessive logs in /var/log/eucalyptus" [Low,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/453456
[16:40] <mdz> ttx: 453456->can be fixed in SRU
[16:40] <ttx> we would fix bug 455293 only if something else gets fixed
[16:40] <mathiaz> ttx: I plan to test cjwatson branch for bug 455816 today
[16:40] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 455293 in eucalyptus "UEC management interface still has Eucalyptus as title" [Wishlist,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/455293
[16:40] <kirkland> mdz: i think we fixed ~36 bugs in 9 uploads last week
[16:41] <mdz> yes, there was a lot of great work done last week while I was away
[16:41] <ttx> I'm slightly worried by bug 455625, if its confirmed
[16:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 455625 in eucalyptus "Eucalyptus Loses Public IP Address" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/455625
[16:41] <ttx> and also note that I hit systematically bug 452556 and bug 444352 in my ISO testing
[16:41] <ttx> which means we might need to release-note them
[16:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 452556 in eucalyptus "euca-authorize default failing" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/452556
[16:41] <ubottu> Error: Could not parse data returned by Launchpad: The read operation timed out (https://launchpad.net/bugs/444352)
[16:42] <ttx> especially if other testers hit those as well.
[16:42] <nurmi> ttx: We're going to be looking into 455625 asap
[16:42] <ttx> nurmi: it's a little... long to reproduce
[16:42] <nurmi> ttx: 452556 is confirmed, we're working on a fix
[16:42] <mdz> nurmi: thanks, that would be a great help
[16:42] <jsalisbury> ttx: I am going to try reducing the lease time to try and reproduce quicker
[16:43] <ttx> nurmi: also please comment on bug 453456 with a pointer on where the log rotation is implemented in code
[16:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 453456 in eucalyptus "excessive logs in /var/log/eucalyptus" [Low,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/453456
[16:43] <mdz> ttx: is 452556 9.10 critical?
[16:43] <mathiaz> nurmi: IIUC guests don't know about their public IPs?
[16:43] <ttx> mdz: no. It's quite easy to workaround
[16:43] <nurmi> jaslisbury: the public addresses are not handed out by DHCP
[16:43] <nurmi> mathiaz: that is correct
[16:43] <mathiaz> nurmi: right - that's what I though
[16:43] <mdz> [action] nurmi to investigate bug 455625
[16:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 455625 in eucalyptus "Eucalyptus Loses Public IP Address" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/455625
[16:43] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nurmi to investigate bug 455625
[16:43] <ttx> mdz: but could be release note material if systematic
[16:44] <ttx> that's all from me on Eucalyptus
[16:44] <kirkland> nurmi: mdz: I think we're going to need to author some comprehensive documentation on the ip address handling in UEC
[16:44] <mdz> ttx: agreed, please open an ubuntu-release-notes task on it
[16:44] <kirkland> it's complex
[16:44] <mdz> kirkland: ok, I see you have documentation on the agenda later
[16:44] <mdz> ttx: can we move on from eucalyptus?
[16:44] <ttx> yes
[16:44] <mdz> [topic] UEC images (smoser)
[16:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  UEC images (smoser)
[16:45] <mdz> I looked at this with smoser yesterday, and we looked to be in good shape
[16:45] <mdz> [link] https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=uec-images
[16:45] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=uec-images
[16:45] <smoser> only issue open is the locale on UEC
[16:45] <smoser> s/open/known and to-be-fixed/
[16:45] <mdz> which we already discussed
[16:45] <mdz> [topic] EC2 images (smoser)
[16:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  EC2 images (smoser)
[16:45] <mdz> [link] https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=ec2-images
[16:45] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=ec2-images
[16:46] <mdz> also reviewed yesterday, also judged OK for 9.10
[16:46] <mdz> smoser: any changes?
[16:46] <smoser> no.
[16:46] <mdz> lovely
[16:46] <mdz> [topic] Reference UEC appliance (soren)
[16:46] <MootBot> New Topic:  Reference UEC appliance (soren)
[16:47] <mdz> soren: I tried to get some help on this while we were on holiday last week, but it got dropped, so there hasn't been progress since you left
[16:47] <mdz> soren: what remains to be done on getting a demo appliance ready to ship?
[16:48] <mdz> soren: hello?
[16:48] <mdz> ttx: do you know soren's status on this?
[16:48] <ttx> mdz: no. he is working on it though, has asked questions about EBS support
[16:48] <kirkland> mdz: i asked him about it this morning; he said it's "on track" for release
[16:49] <kirkland> mdz: he said there wasn't progress besides what he's posted on ubuntu-devel@
[16:49] <mdz> ttx: the "demo" shouldn't require EBS; we should get the demo completed and then work on a persistent one
[16:49] <soren> Sorry, my wifi dropped for a minute.
[16:50] <soren> The demo will very closely resemble what I posted the week before last.
[16:50] <soren> I'm getting the build of it cleaned up, but I'm having a weird problem with mysql.
[16:50] <mdz> soren: can it be ready by Thursday?
[16:50] <soren> I'm working on it.
[16:50] <soren> The completely unpersistent one, yes.
[16:50] <mdz> ok
[16:50] <ttx> on the appliance store side, who tested that ?
[16:51] <mdz> [action] soren to complete demo virtual appliance
[16:51] <MootBot> ACTION received:  soren to complete demo virtual appliance
[16:51] <mdz> [topic] UEC appliance store (niemeyer)
[16:51] <MootBot> New Topic:  UEC appliance store (niemeyer)
[16:51] <mdz> Gustavo is on leave I think
[16:51] <kirkland> ttx: mathiaz tested the appliance store when he was here in Austin
[16:51] <ttx> mathiaz: did you test it since it was fixed ?
[16:51] <mdz> kirkland: mathiaz tested the eucalyptus interaction with the "fake" test store
[16:51] <mdz> I'm not sure if it has been validated against the production store yet
[16:51] <nurmi> ttx: I tested a bit shortly after austin, with the fake store as well
[16:51] <kirkland> mdz: right, sorry
[16:51] <mdz> someone needs to do that ASAP
[16:51] <mathiaz> mdz: nope - not validated against the production server
[16:52] <mathiaz> gustavo is on vacation today - so I don't know what's the state of the server side
[16:52] <ttx> is that production server up already ?
[16:52] <mdz> ttx: so I've heard
[16:52] <mathiaz> and a appliance is actually needed to do the complete testing
[16:52] <mdz> [action] mdz to chase down details on production image store
[16:52] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mdz to chase down details on production image store
[16:52] <mdz> [action] mathiaz to test UEC integration with production image store
[16:52] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to test UEC integration with production image store
[16:52] <soren> The standard UEC image should be the first appliance, shouldn't it?
[16:53] <mdz> soren: we can use a "blank" 9.10 appliance as well, for test purposes
[16:53] <soren> I mean... that's clearly the most obvious way to publish that.
[16:53] <mathiaz> soren: I'd thought so
[16:53] <mdz> mathiaz: so we shouldn't need to block on soren
[16:53] <mathiaz> mdz: agreed.
[16:53] <mdz> the stock 9.10 UEC image should be able to go in the store
[16:53] <mdz> [topic] UEC documentation (kirkland)
[16:53] <MootBot> New Topic:  UEC documentation (kirkland)
[16:53] <mdz>     *
[16:53] <mdz>       What needs to be documented, where, and by whom? How can you help? (DustinKirkland)
[16:53] <kirkland> > [1] http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC
[16:53] <kirkland> > [2] http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC/PackageInstall
[16:53] <kirkland> those are two links to documentation
[16:53] <ttx> [1] is in reasonably good shape
[16:54] <kirkland> we also have testcases in the iso testing wiki
[16:54] <ttx> [2] needs a lot of work
[16:54] <kirkland> these materials need to converge on something we can point UEC users to
[16:54] <kirkland> i'm willing and able to help whip those into shape
[16:54] <ttx> I recently removed the "wrong" instructions from [2] (bundle your running kernel with UEC images)
[16:54] <nurmi> kirkland: i can help as well
[16:54] <kirkland> but I'm proposing that there are more people here that can help enhance that
[16:54]  * kirkland high fives nurmi
[16:54] <mdz> thanks, nurmi
[16:54] <kirkland> anyone else?
[16:55] <kirkland> ttx?  mathiaz?
[16:55] <ttx> kirkland: count me in
[16:55] <kirkland> shall we split the responsibilities?
[16:55] <mdz> kirkland: what kind of help is needed? I'm sure there are plenty of people who can read and edit for clarity, but fewer who can actually run through an end-to-end test
[16:55] <mathiaz> kirkland: I can review the PackageInstall doc
[16:55] <ttx> though I don't have the necessary hw to tset multicomponent, I can test the "by package" install
[16:55] <kirkland> or just let it grow organically?
[16:55] <mathiaz> kirkland: as this is what I'm mostly doing in my installs
[16:56] <kirkland> mdz: i've been driving my installs from the testcases wiki ... i was thinking of shifting to drive my installs from the documentation
[16:56] <ttx> I think [2] should be split between two scenarios, multicomponent and multicluster
[16:56] <kirkland> mdz: once we all started working from the test cases wiki, it really improved dramatically
[16:56] <kirkland> i think something along these lines will help
[16:57] <kirkland> but with more focus on explanation
[16:57] <kirkland> rather than copy-n-paste commands
[16:57] <mdz> kirkland: it would make sense to have one set of setup instructions, and just reference that
[16:57]  * mathiaz thinks testcases and documentation should be merged at some point in the future
[16:57] <kirkland> mdz: of course
[16:57] <ttx> mathiaz: the testcase is script-oriented, the doc is human-readability-oriented
[16:58] <kirkland> okay, so we first agree on a format
[16:58] <mathiaz> ttx: I have an idea about that - but right now is not the time to discuss it ;)
[16:58] <ttx> I tried to avoid obscure script combos in [1]
[16:58] <ttx> yes, lets take this off-meeting
[16:58] <mdz> ok, we are almost out of time, can we close on documentation?
[16:58] <kirkland> mdz: yes, i think we have some volunteers now
[16:58] <mdz> there is one to-be-assigned bug: bug 455873
[16:58] <ttx> kirkland, mathiaz: email, ubuntu-cloud or ubuntu-server ML ?
[16:58] <ubottu> Error: Could not parse data returned by Launchpad: The read operation timed out (https://launchpad.net/bugs/455873)
[16:58] <mdz> bug 455873
[16:58] <kirkland> ttx: ubuntu-server, i suggest
[16:59]  * mathiaz agrees
[16:59] <ttx> kirkland: you start it, you choose
[16:59] <ubottu> Error: Could not parse data returned by Launchpad: The read operation timed out (https://launchpad.net/bugs/455873)
[16:59] <kirkland> ttx: okay
[16:59] <ttx> mdz: I think zul proposed to take it
[16:59] <mdz> it's "mod_proxy causes duplicate query strings when nocanon option is used"
[16:59] <ttx> if that's the one I think it is
[16:59] <zul> yeah I did
[16:59] <mdz> on apache2
[16:59] <mdz> ok, assigned
[16:59] <mdz> I assume it is not 9.10-critical
[17:00] <zul> its for hardy
[17:00] <mathiaz> mdz: nope - fixed in karmic
[17:00] <ttx> zul: prio 2
[17:00] <zul> k
[17:00] <mdz> please update the bug to reflect that it's 8.04
[17:00] <ScottK> Just to toss in a clamav update: clamav 0.95.3 will likely be released on Monday, so it'll go to -proposed.  i hope to have some post-RC packaging fixes though.
[17:00] <mdz> mathiaz: can we skip the SRU review?
[17:00] <mathiaz> mdz: sure
[17:00] <mdz> [topic] AOB
[17:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[17:01] <mdz> ScottK: ok, thanks
[17:01] <mdz> anything else?
[17:01] <zul> nope
[17:01] <mdz> ok, looks like we are in pretty good shape overall. thanks, all
[17:01] <mdz> #endmeeting
</pre>
