{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred, carry over)
** Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug. (carry over)
** SpamapS to put his version of ubuntuserver-minutes in directions for writing minutes
** ALL: Please review the current documentation (for Natty release)
** Daviey to talk with docs team about new submissions (New documentation for cluster stack)
* Natty Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday, April  12th 2011 16:00 UTC

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* Daviey to submit UDS-O topic for translations and docs
* jamespage to helpout with verification of euca-dhcp bug
* jamespage to discover process/location for fixing ubuntu server documentation

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred, carry over)
* Daviey to talk with docs team about new submissions (New documentation for cluster stack)
** Daviey has discussed this with the documentation team; most Ubuntu documentation is facing the same issue that the server documentation set is (i.e. lack of resource). 
** [ACTION] Daviey actioned to raise a UDS-O topic to discuss server team documentation and the how this is taken forwards.

* Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug. (carry over)
** Progress on this issue; bug applied but needs verification. 
** [ACTION] jamespage to help out with verification that this issue is resolved.

* SpamapS to put his version of ubuntuserver-minutes in directions for writing minutes
** DONE

* ALL: Please review the current documentation (for Natty release)
** Some review; however team are unclear on how to fix documentation for the release. 
** [ACTION] jamespage to find out and report back/email.

===== Natty Development =====

Focus is now on bug fixing rather than development.

* List of release bugs for server team: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=server-nrs
* Looking OK.
* Work Items for Beta-2: http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
* Looking OK.

Daviey asked that any blockers, issues or concerns be raised as soon as possible in the run up to beta-2

Smoser raised two bugs that required MIR approval:
  
* Launchpad bug 726572 in cloud-initramfs-tools (Ubuntu) "[MIR] cloud-initramfs-tools" [Undecided,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/726572
* Launchpad bug 727200 in lxc (Ubuntu Natty) "[MIR] lxcguest in main" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/727200

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

* SpamapS: Apr. 13,14 I will be at the MySQL Users' Conference in Santa Clara, CA
* jamespage: I'll be attending puppet camp europe on the 28/29 April in Amsterdam
* zul: Apr 25 - 29 I will be at the Openstack summit, Santa Clara, CA

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

* Current investigating: 
** Launchpad bug 746751 in linux (Ubuntu) "kernel: [Firmware Bug]: the BIOS has corrupted hw-PMU resources (MSR 38d is 30)" [Critical,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/746751
* Kernel SRU tests are throwing up security failures, compiler stracktraces etc...

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====

* Launchpad bug 634487 in linux (Ubuntu Natty) "t1.micro instance hangs when installing java" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/634487
** Latest natty works fine on smb test rig; however not in ec2.
** The bug seems to be some interaction between xen hypervisor and the kernel. And it looks like newer Xen works.
** Just need Amazon to upgrade.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====

Not present

===== Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community =====

None

===== Open Discussion =====

None

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====

* Tuesday, April  12th 2011 16:00 UTC

=== Log ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[11:02:06] <jamespage> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[11:02:18] <jamespage> Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred, carry over)
[11:02:26] <Daviey> Okay, i briefly spoke with dpm
[11:02:26] <jamespage> Any progress on this one Daviey?
[11:02:48] <smoser> o/
[11:02:49] <Daviey> It seems something to table for the next cycle.
[11:02:57] <Daviey> (until the next cycle)
[11:03:28] <jamespage> OK; so is that going to need a UDS topic?
[11:03:33] <SpamapS> Daviey: was there any mention of the greater problem of nobody actually working on the server guide this cycle? :-/
[11:03:38] <Daviey> jamespage, yes
[11:03:53] <Daviey> SpamapS, what you said + s/server guide/docs/
[11:04:01] <Daviey> The whole platform docs are lacking this cycle.
[11:04:05] <SpamapS> Daviey: *ouch*
[11:04:35] <Daviey> As in, there currently isn't really any activity this cycle.
[11:06:10] <jamespage> [ACTION] Daviey to submit UDS-O topic for translations and docs
[11:06:13] <Daviey> Ta
[11:06:24] <jamespage> Next: Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug. (carry over)
[11:07:57] <jamespage> Daviey?
[11:09:10] <jamespage> Hmmm; might need to come back to that one
[11:09:25] <jamespage> SpamapS : to put his version of ubuntuserver-minutes in directions for writing minutes
[11:09:45] <SpamapS> Done 2 weeks ago, its in the comments of the meeting page.
[11:10:06] <jamespage> Right-oh looks like the actions might not quite be right - I'll take it off.
[11:10:16] <SpamapS> no I skipped last week ;)
[11:10:18] <SpamapS> it was a carry over
[11:11:24] <Daviey> jamespage, It is making it progress..
[11:11:45] <Daviey> It looks fixed, but requires verification
[11:11:50] <Daviey> ..
[11:12:40] <jamespage> OK - do you need any action from this team? I'm happy to have a go at testing it
[11:13:20] <Daviey> jamespage, testing is MUCHLY appreciated
[11:13:30] <Daviey> There is a known upgrade issue, which is currently being worked on
[11:13:44] <Daviey> but fresh install testing would be really beneficial
[11:13:50] <jamespage> [ACTION] jamespage to helpout with verification of euca-dhcp bug
[11:14:16] <Daviey> thanks!
[11:14:18] <jamespage> Next: ALL: Please review the current documentation (for Natty release)
[11:14:36] <Daviey> Euca is currently looking adequate.
[11:15:02] <jamespage> Anyone else managed to find some time to review docs?
[11:16:08] <jamespage> Well I know that I've not managed to; suggest that we carry that action
[11:16:21] <hallyn> jamespage: once again, for the minutes, a link?
[11:16:26] <SpamapS> jamespage: I did but I can't figure out how to *fix* problems.
[11:16:45] <SpamapS> the server guide is no longer in the ubuntu-docs package.. not sure where exactly it lives
[11:17:13] * SpamapS must end this line of speaking because compiz has just eaten itself... 
[11:17:23] <jamespage> hallyn: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting (follow link at bottom of page)
[11:17:42] <jamespage> So can anyone enlighten us on how to fix documentation issues?
[11:17:50] <zul> it got removed into a pdf didnt it/
[11:18:03] <SpamapS> well it has a bzr tree somewhere
[11:18:10] <SpamapS> zul: pdf + html
[11:18:17] <SpamapS> its all in docbook.. somewhere. :-P
[11:19:05] <zul> SpamapS: *cough* https://code.launchpad.net/~asommer/ubuntu-docs/serverguide
[11:19:21] <Daviey> erm
[11:19:29] <Daviey> that isn't the main location... is it?!
[11:19:38] <Daviey> https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-doc/ubuntu-docs/natty
[11:19:58] <zul> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-docs maybe?
[11:20:18] <zul> i dunno maybe we need to fire off an email to asommer then
[11:21:04] <SpamapS> Daviey: where did you find that?
[11:21:43] <jamespage> Well it seems like there is some confusion; I'll pickup and action to try and find out...
[11:22:06] <jamespage> [ACTION] jamespage to discover process/location for fixing ubuntu server documentation
[11:22:23] * jamespage thinks I might be a glutton for punishment but hey-ho
[11:22:47] <jamespage> Daviey to talk with docs team about new submissions (New documentation for cluster stack)
[11:23:00] <jamespage> seems to all be about documentation this week Daviey
[11:23:13] <Daviey> That made no progress due to lack of activity
[11:23:15] <SpamapS> That does look like the bit I was looking for tho, so thanks. :)
[11:23:23] <Daviey> This shares the same action as UDS-O session
[11:23:39] <jamespage> OK; so thats last weeks actions...
[11:23:47] <Daviey> \o/
[11:23:47] <jamespage> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[11:24:35] <robbiew> should be no "development"...just bug fixing ;)
[11:24:53] <zul> dang it
[11:25:38] <Daviey> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=server-nrs
[11:26:43] <Daviey> Essentially, we are looking pretty good.
[11:26:52] <smoser> i have a probably bad question to ask . bug 726572 and bug 727200
[11:26:54] <hallyn> zul: isn't bug 742770 fixed as of your upload yesterday?
[11:26:54] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 726572 in cloud-initramfs-tools (Ubuntu) "[MIR] cloud-initramfs-tools" [Undecided,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/726572
[11:26:56] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 727200 in lxc (Ubuntu Natty) "[MIR] lxcguest in main" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/727200
[11:26:57] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 742770 in lxc (Ubuntu) "Erorr in syntax in ubuntu templates" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/742770
[11:26:59] <smoser> are both MIR
[11:27:17] <Daviey> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
[11:27:36] <zul> hallyn: it should
[11:27:49] <Daviey> jamespage, Looks like beta2 is blocked on you :D
[11:28:07] <jamespage> so that TODO is now DONE as well - have just not updated the spec.
[11:28:11] <SpamapS> Daviey: there's a bug in autofs that should be on that list, but I expect to fix that today.
[11:28:30] <Daviey> SpamapS, The error in the default config?
[11:28:45] <zul> hallyn: ill double check
[11:28:53] <SpamapS> Daviey: the upstart 'start on' breaks NFS mounts.
[11:29:06] <Daviey> ahh
[11:29:09] <Daviey> SpamapS, groovy
[11:29:15] <SpamapS> Daviey: and we also stopped reading /etc/default/autofs .. which is a regresssion from 10.10 and prior.
[11:29:17] <Daviey> Are there any other concerns where people are blocked?
[11:29:29] <SpamapS> Daviey: I have an upload going in today just doing extensive testing.
[11:29:32] <Daviey> SpamapS, that is the one i was thinking of!
[11:30:21] <SpamapS> How come our ISO tests don't have upgrades listed?
[11:30:24] <SpamapS> or do they?
[11:31:08] <jamespage> SpamapS: They are listed separated fro the main install tests.
[11:31:28] <jamespage> Daviey (or anyone else): anything else to add for Natty development/bug fixing...
[11:31:29] <jamespage> ?
[11:31:33] <Daviey> SpamapS, It's not very discoverable, but mvo runs automated upgrade testing aswell
[11:32:14] <Daviey> jamespage, Just that if anyone is blocked, raise it ASAP... and concerned we have missed somthing, now would be a "good time" to let it be known
[11:32:29] <smoser> i've askwait..
[11:32:30] <SpamapS> ACK
[11:32:35] <smoser> development/bug fixing
[11:32:39] <smoser> those two MIR bugs
[11:32:43] <smoser> is it to late for that ?
[11:33:08] <Daviey> smoser, Shouldn't be... but the MIR team need to ACK and then the release team agree :)
[11:33:10] <zul> SpamapS: i thought you already uploaded the fix?
[11:33:21] <Daviey> ridddddddde. the split
[11:34:40] <jamespage> OK; next topic is...
[11:34:51] <jamespage> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[11:35:10] <SpamapS> Apr. 13,14 I will be at the MySQL Users' Conference in Santa Clara, CA
[11:35:31] <SpamapS> Speaking on the 13th about how Natty is the best platform for trying out Drizzle. :)
[11:35:50] <jamespage> Good luch SpamapS - hope if goes well :-)
[11:35:59] <jamespage> I'll be attending puppet camp europe on the 28/29 April in Amsterdam
[11:36:02] <SpamapS> Yeah I should probably start on my slides. :)
[11:36:17] <jamespage> zul: are you attending the openstack summit?
[11:36:33] <SpamapS> I wonder if I should pop up and crash the openstack summit for 1 day. :)
[11:37:23] <smoser> jamespage, at previous puppet camp, we ran an awstrial for them
[11:37:25] <zul> Apr 25 - 29 I will be at the Openstack summit i santa clara, CA
[11:37:44] <smoser> it went over pretty well, and we're more mature in some respects.. we may want to offer that to them again.
[11:38:10] <SpamapS> Definitely get in contact with puppetlabs now so we can be more prepared.
[11:38:23] <jamespage> smoser: OK suggest we pick that up separately - I'll ping you directly and we can take it from there
[11:38:26] <SpamapS> Would be extremely cool if it were an awstrial backed by UEC. :)
[11:38:48] <SpamapS> then again, that might require 4 or 5 NC's ;)
[11:38:57] <jamespage> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[11:39:06] <jamespage> hggdh: over to you
[11:39:10] <hggdh> k
[11:39:24] <hggdh> still trying to find the culprit on bug 746751
[11:39:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 746751 in linux (Ubuntu) "kernel: [Firmware Bug]: the BIOS has corrupted hw-PMU resources (MSR 38d is 30)" [Critical,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/746751
[11:39:32] <smoser> for what its worth, awstrial could be backed by UEC. but its not useful.
[11:39:46] <hggdh> pretty much all my time has been dedicated to this and kernel sru testing this week
[11:40:25] <hggdh> and it is not helping much that I am getting extremely weird results on local KVM testing
[11:40:40] <hggdh> ..
[11:41:22] <hallyn> hggdh: weird?
[11:41:43] <hallyn> hggdh: the bug report suggests that kvm by hand is fine?
[11:42:11] <hggdh> hallyn: on the kernel SRU tests -- I get security failures, compiler stracktraces, the whole 9 yards
[11:42:13] <jjohansen> hggdh: ?
[11:42:25] <jjohansen> oh right
[11:42:27] <hallyn> hggdh: jinkeys! I've not seen any of that
[11:42:39] <hggdh> hallyn: I am currently running a lucid image copied over, and no issues so far
[11:42:57] <hggdh> the same lucid image barfs in many different and instructive ways on my laptop
[11:43:18] <jjohansen> hggdh: faulty hardware?
[11:43:38] <hallyn> well jdstrand had some bad kvm results too, but we never were able to figure it out
[11:43:42] <hggdh> jjohansen: it might -- I am also seeing now what seems to be wireless errors
[11:43:54] <hallyn> hggdh: is htere an open bug for that?
[11:44:05] <hallyn> (so we can take this out of the meeting :)
[11:44:33] <jamespage> OK so we do need to push on;
[11:44:47] <jamespage> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[11:44:49] <hggdh> hallyn: we can talk after the meeting
[11:44:54] <smb> Hi
[11:44:57] <hallyn> hggdh: ok
[11:45:12] <smb> So some time was spend on bug 634487
[11:45:13] * jdstrand needs to bisect that still...
[11:45:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 634487 in linux (Ubuntu Natty) "t1.micro instance hangs when installing java" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/634487
[11:45:42] <smb> Though unfortunately or fortunately all is good with latest natty on my centos 5.5 + xen 3.4.3
[11:46:00] <smb> but not on ec2 which is centos 5.0 + xen 3.1.something.
[11:46:29] <Daviey> smb, is 634487 likely to be resolved this cycle?
[11:46:39] <smb> Tried a centos 5.0 install this week but was set back by the slight difference of yum upgrade to apt-get upgrade
[11:47:03] <smb> Daviey, If amazon upgrade... yes
[11:47:26] <smb> Otherwise I still have no clue what happens because I cannot look outside
[11:48:22] <smb> Daviey, The bug seems to be some interaction between xen hypervisor and the kernel. And it looks like newer Xen works
[11:48:59] <jjohansen> right, I find it unlikely this one can be resolved
[11:49:25] <smb> I guess the interesting part of natty failing is that this contains the 3 patches fiddling around with the interrrupt types used
[11:50:00] <smb> Which is iirc the changes we get asked to get for that problem...
[11:51:02] <jamespage> smb: anything else from the kernel team? or any questions for smb?
[11:51:14] <smb> On a sidenote I would have a patch now to make Hardy move to edge interrupts and the lucid updates just have hit the point of making them fasteoi...
[11:51:36] <Daviey> smb, thanks!
[11:51:37] * smb waits for questions
[11:52:07] <smoser> no questions, but comment to others
[11:52:08] <smb> Oh one thing
[11:52:15] <smoser> jjohansen, wrote to mailing list asking for feedback
[11:52:17] <smoser> GIVE HIM SOME
[11:52:30] <jjohansen> hehe, thanks smoser
[11:52:30] <smb> Has anybody exxperinece with using generic kernels under RHEL HVM?
[11:52:46] <smoser> "generic kernels"
[11:52:52] <smoser> as in kernel.org ?
[11:53:01] <smb> IOW 10.04 but not the ec2 kernel
[11:53:07] <smb> So lucid-generic
[11:53:18] <smoser> smb, well we know it doesnt work
[11:53:43] <Daviey> jjohansen, How is your list of wishes coming on?
[11:53:44] <smb> smoser, Then who sold that to the German LVM customer?
[11:54:02] <smoser> and i may have a bit more info for you.
[11:54:02] <smb> smoser, bug 751253
[11:54:03] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 751253 in linux (Ubuntu) "Many interrupts and slow disk I/O on Lucid xen guest" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/751253
[11:54:16] <jjohansen> Daviey: slowly, the two big ones are still xen dom0 and containers
[11:54:26] <Daviey> jjohansen, oh joy
[11:54:32] <smoser> smb, there was a thread on ubuntu-cloud about lucid hvm. i built a daily image to just see what would happen. i reported there what was wrong
[11:55:26] <smb> smoser, Hm, maybe I could chicken out of looking at that bug report and let you reply...
[11:55:32] <jamespage> OK guys - we are running a little short on time; smoser, smb can you pick that issue up separately
[11:55:37] <jamespage> please :-)
[11:55:41] <smoser> thread at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-cloud/2011-March/000577.html
[11:55:43] <smb> ok ok. :)
[11:55:50] <jamespage> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[11:56:00] <jamespage> Guess that we have already discussed docs to death this week.
[11:56:08] <jamespage> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[11:56:36] <jamespage> So anything from the community this week?
[11:57:26] <jamespage> Okay so moving on...
[11:57:29] <jamespage> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[11:57:38] <jamespage> Anything else anyone wants to raise?
[11:57:45] <Daviey> More ideas for blueprints for next UDS please
[11:57:54] <Daviey> (See ubuntu-server mailing list for inspiration)
[11:58:02] <SpamapS> I liked the wiki page last time
[11:58:03] <Daviey> or ping one of us. thanks
[11:58:13] <SpamapS> Should we start collecting in a wiki page or just go right to blueprint?
[11:58:31] <Daviey> SpamapS, I think hold fire for this week...
[11:58:35] <Daviey> lets collate more ideas.
[11:58:42] <Daviey> Although, talking of which...
[11:58:51] <SpamapS> Alright, I have a few that I'll be mailing about this week.
[11:58:57] <Daviey> considering the activity of the mysql alternatives thread, expected some more input on the comparision wikipage
[11:59:11] <Daviey> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase/FeatureComparison/MySQL
[11:59:30] <Daviey> and perhaps a similar thing, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase/FeatureComparison/NetworkMonitoring
[11:59:47] <jamespage> And finally....
[11:59:57] <Daviey> Currently there seems to be no compelling reason for us to look at anything other than mysql IMO.
[12:00:02] <Daviey> ..
[12:00:11] <jamespage> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[12:00:24] <jamespage> Tuesday, April 12th 2011 16:00 UTC - see you all then :-)
[12:00:35] <jamespage> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
