{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Open Week -- u1 is awesome -- Shane Fagan -- Tue, May 3 ===
{{{#!IRC
[18:02] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/03/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[18:02] <fagan> Testing 1,2,3
[18:03] <fagan> Alright so hey everybody im Shane :)
[18:04] <fagan> Im going to be talking about Ubuntu one and what exactly it does and how you guys can use it. Also ill be going into some of the stuff you can look forward to
[18:04] <fagan> So you guys can ask questions in chat and ill get around to them when I can or towards the end
[18:05] <fagan> Ok so what exactly is Ubuntu one?
[18:06] <fagan> Ubuntu one is a set of services to make things easier for users mainly cloud based services
[18:06] <fagan> The cloud is a bit of a scary word but all it means is the internet really and you dont really need to go too much deeper into it
[18:07] <fagan> So what people try out first id say is the file sync which is free for 2GB of online storage
[18:08] <fagan> You can sync up your files and folders and publish them so other people can access them
[18:09] <fagan> It is currently available on Ubuntu, Windows (beta) and an Android version is on the way soon
[18:09] <fagan> You can get more storage on the website in 20GB packs
[18:09] <fagan> ok I see some questions
[18:10] <fagan> so ill take a few now
[18:10] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: Ubuntu One is awesome, oh yeah really, how so?
[18:10] <fagan> ill get back to this one :D
[18:10] <ClassBot> jledbetter asked: How secure is my data if I sync it?
[18:11] <fagan> Ok this is a good question and its really understandable.
[18:12] <fagan> So the filesync and everything in Ubuntu one is very secure. It is secured by your login info but also you control the access via the web interface or the Ubuntu one control panel in natty
[18:13] <ClassBot> Fabu asked: will ubuntu one get webdav support? If yes - when can we expect it?
[18:14] <fagan> No we wont be getting webdav support for a few big reasons that are pretty hard to explain but if you ask on #ubuntuone they can explain it better than me :)
[18:15] <fagan> ok so ill go back to it
[18:15] <fagan> So other than the filesync we have contact sync which is something I only started using this month myself
[18:16] <fagan> You can either use the plugin for evolution on your desktop or sync your contacts from your android or iPhone
[18:17] <fagan> This is particularly interesting if you are working on the go or have a few different devices
[18:17] <fagan> So I have 2 computers and an android phone and they all have the same contacts
[18:18] <fagan> Ok so more questions
[18:18] <fagan> :)
[18:18] <ClassBot> jorek asked: Is it possible to sync on Mac, too?
[18:19] <fagan> Nope but watch this space after the new version of the file sync for Windows is released
[18:19] <fagan> Its something that is on the todo list for a while but we are tackling the much harder one first
[18:20] <fagan> and a big shoutout to mandel who is doing the new Windows file sync at the moment
[18:20] <ClassBot> ombralando asked: How do I sync a folder outside of the "Ubuntu One" folder?  Insructions online only show how to do this in nautilus, not the command-line.
[18:21] <fagan> Well I dont know how to do it with the commandline myself so could you ask on #ubuntuone im sure someone can help there
[18:21] <ClassBot> ombralando asked: Does contact sync work in kubuntu applications?
[18:22] <fagan> Well you can use the Gnome stuff in kubuntu and im pretty sure there is a kubuntu client already
[18:22] <fagan> the good news is that the windows client is written in Qt for the user interface so there will be some improvements coming from that too probably
[18:22] <ClassBot> imgarysmith asked: What advantages (if any) has Ubuntu One contact sync got over the integrated Google contact sync on Android
[18:22] <fagan> great question
[18:23] <fagan> The benefit is that you can do it over multiple devices
[18:24] <fagan> and we are adding more as fast as we can so at the moment its just evolution in Ubuntu and there is an improved thunderbird one on the way from mozilla as well as the mobile ones
[18:24] <fagan> So we support I think the most contacts for any sync service at the moment and we aim to add more
[18:24] <ClassBot> Fabu asked: will contact Sync also get google contacts support?
[18:25] <fagan> We have Google contact and facebook contact import at the moment
[18:25] <fagan> Ok so thats all the questions in the queue for the moment so ill keep going
[18:26] <fagan> So as part of our mobile service we have music streaming now which is very very cool
[18:27] <fagan> if you havent seen it yet you just sync you .mp3 (or ogg soon for android) and automagically ubuntu one will add it to your songs on the phone
[18:27] <fagan> It is pretty cool but ill suggest having a data plan with your phone provider or using the wifi
[18:29] <fagan> So since there is no more questions ill go on to the next bit and that is some news about whats coming and what we improved upon since the last release of Ubuntu :)
[18:29] <fagan> So a big thing we added in the last release was the control panel
[18:29] <fagan> So now you can do a lot more without having to go to the Ubuntu one website
[18:30] <fagan> You can now sync specific folders from the cloud to your computer now
[18:31] <fagan> There was a lot of speed improvements and that is something we are always trying to improve upon
[18:32] <fagan> So thats what we got in the desktop for natty which is a lot
[18:32] <fagan> For 11.10 (I cant spell it :)
[18:33] <fagan> It still hasnt been decided but we will be getting some Unity stuff like possibly quicklists and lenses
[18:33] <fagan> Maybe an update to the music store
[18:34] <fagan> and maybe a shotwell plugin which some image publishing to the website
[18:34] <fagan> The recent release of the android client brought some playlist support
[18:35] <fagan> Oh and just to mention that the Windows, Android and iPhone clients dont follow the same release dates as the Ubuntu release dates
[18:36] <fagan> So if you want some of the latest news on whats coming be sure to look at the Ubuntu one blog http://voices.canonical.com/ubuntuone/
[18:36] <fagan> So im a little bit ahead of time does anyone have any more questions?
[18:37] <fagan> I still have more to cover but ill stop for a sec and take some if you guys have any :)
[18:37] <fagan> Ok then
[18:38] <fagan> So ill talk about what I do then :)
[18:38] <fagan> Im an intern helping out here and there on the Windows client as well as doing bug reports and helping out where ever I can
[18:39] <fagan> So the new version of the Windows client is coming pretty soon and it should be as good as the one for Ubuntu
[18:40] <fagan> The current beta that is available is just a rough start so it isnt working to great for the users but the new one should be a lot more snappy
[18:41] <fagan> There isnt really much to say about it at the moment other than watch the blog and we will announce it for use when its ready which should be pretty soon
[18:41] <fagan> So still no questions?
[18:42] <fagan> Well I frequently asked question I get from people is how is Ubuntu one different from dropbox
[18:43] <fagan> The simplest way to put this is that Dropbox offers file sync and so do we
[18:44] <fagan> but we offer the mobile stuff like streaming and contact syncing
[18:44] <fagan> and as well as that we have a great set of services for application developers to make really neat things
[18:45] <fagan> So eventually we would love to see little applications to sync reading lists or recipies
[18:45] <fagan> the sky is the limit
[18:46] <ClassBot> jorek asked: Is it possible to release files to the public?
[18:46] <fagan> jorek: could you explain what you mean?
[18:47] <fagan> (in chat)
[18:47] <fagan> You can publish your files on Ubuntu one by right clicking the file in a synced folder
[18:48] <fagan> then you can get the link by clicking the copy web link to clipboard link
[18:48] <ClassBot> jorek asked: For example if you have a file that you want to show your friends. Is it possible to simply upload it and let friends download it?
[18:48] <fagan> yeah thats like I thought
[18:49] <fagan> on more recent releases of Ubuntu you can publish files by right clicking in a synced folder
[18:49] <fagan> and selecting publish and then copying the web link
[18:49] <fagan> I think that answers it
[18:49] <ClassBot> ombralando asked: Any plans for sharing photo albums online through ubuntu one?  You mentioned shotwell syncing, would this allow the creation of sharable albums?
[18:50] <fagan> Maybe it hasnt been decided how this is going to be done yet
[18:50] <fagan> but it is a topic for discussion
[18:51] <fagan> I would love to see a nice gallery style website flikr style
[18:51]  * fagan cant spell today :)
[18:51] <fagan> Ok so any more questions we still have time left
[18:52] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[18:52] <fagan> The main thing id like to say is anything is possible in the future we are getting a lot of improvements along the way
[18:52] <fagan> and we are trying to make our service the best it can be for the users
[18:53] <fagan> So that means obviously more platforms like Mac OS and improving what we have done over the past few releases of Ubuntu
[18:54] <fagan> So thats about it unless there is more questions
[18:55] <fagan> Oh and just a shameless plug here is the site with all the info about the service plans we have https://one.ubuntu.com/plans/
[18:56] <fagan> The mobile one is the one I like most at the moment :)
[18:56] <fagan> Ok thats it thanks for reading
[18:57] <fagan> oh and the comments were great too
[18:57] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
=== medberry is now known as med_out
[18:58] <fagan> Oh and if you have any problems or questions just ask in #ubuntuone there are people in there to help weekdays
[19:00] <ClassBot> jorek asked: Is it possible to pay with €, too?
[19:00] <fagan> yes it is but the currency isnt localised yet
[19:02] <fagan> So you can pay with € you just might have to google the price for the moment. We do know that isnt too helpful but it is a known issue and will be fixed when we can do it but its slightly complciated
[19:02] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/03/%23ubuntu-classroom.html
}}}
