{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** rharper collect team thoughts on whether we should have something like numad and other NUMA related placement stuff
** rharper send email to TB about bcache-utils into trusty
** smoser, rharper get other packages into cloud-image necessary for storage features.
* Wily Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting: =====

* rharper collect team thoughts on whether we should have something like numad and other NUMA related  placement stuff

No update

* rharper send email to TB about bcache-utils into trusty

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bcache-tools/+bug/1491111

* smoser, rharper get other packages into cloud-image necessary for storage features.

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mdadm/+bug/1491102

===== Wily Development =====

Nothing to report

===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====

caribou reported that rsyslog 8.12 is merged and FFE was OKed

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) =====

nothing to report

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====

nothing to report

===== Upcoming Call For Papers =====

nothing to report

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

nothing to report

===== Open Discussion =====

===== Meeting Actions =====

Carried forward:

* rharper collect team thoughts on whether we should have something like numad and other NUMA related  placement stuff

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

gaughen to chair on Tuesday 15th September 16:00 UTC to 17:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <gnuoy> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep  8 16:00:02 2015 UTC.  The chair is gnuoy. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <gnuoy> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:00] <gnuoy> rharper collect team thoughts on whether we should have something like numad and other NUMA related placement stuff
[16:00] <gnuoy> did that happen?
[16:00] <matsubara> o/
[16:00] <gnuoy> While we wait for rharper:
[16:00] <gnuoy> smoser, rharper get other packages into cloud-image necessary for storage features.
[16:00] <gnuoy> did that one happen?
[16:01] <gnuoy> smoser ?
[16:01] <smoser> we made some progress on it.
[16:01] <smoser> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bcache-tools/+bug/1491111
[16:01] <gnuoy> carry action forward to next meeting?
[16:01] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1491111 in bcache-tools (Ubuntu Trusty) "add bcache-tools to trusty archive" [High,Confirmed]
[16:01] <gnuoy> sounds like it's in hand
[16:01] <smoser> and https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mdadm/+bug/1491102
[16:01] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1491102 in mdadm (Ubuntu) "[FFE] add mdadm and lvm2 to cloud image" [Undecided,New]
[16:02] <gnuoy> thanks smoser
[16:02] <gnuoy> one more for rharper when he's about:
[16:02] <gnuoy> rharper send email to TB about bcache-utils into trusty
[16:02] <gnuoy> lets return to those later if we can
[16:02] <gnuoy> #topic Wily Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Wily Development
[16:02] <gnuoy> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
[16:03] <smoser> gnuoy, that one.. will probably be delayed.
[16:03] <gnuoy> smoser, the sending of the email or getting bcache-utils into trusty?
[16:04] <gnuoy> No dates for next week in the release schedule
[16:04] <gnuoy> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:05] <gnuoy> nothing new there by the looks of it
[16:06] <gnuoy> 2 confirmed but unassigned ones
[16:06] <gnuoy> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:07] <gnuoy> caribou, anything to declare?
[16:07] <caribou> rsyslog 8.12 is merged
[16:07] <caribou> FFE was OKed
[16:07] <caribou> other than that I'm good
[16:07] <gnuoy> excellent, thanks
[16:07] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:07] <matsubara> gnuoy, nothing to report
[16:08] <gnuoy> tip top, ta
[16:08] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:08] <arges> gnuoy: nothing to report from kernel team
[16:08] <arges> ..
[16:08] <gnuoy> anyone got anything to throw at the kernel team?
[16:08] <gnuoy> arges, ok, thanks
[16:08] <gnuoy> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
[16:09] <gnuoy> Anyone calling for any papers?
[16:09] <gnuoy> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:10] <gnuoy> Any noteworthy events on the horizon?
[16:10] <gnuoy> is noteworthy one word? I assume it is. rbasak would know
[16:10] <gnuoy> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:11] <gnuoy> Platform is open for scattergun contributions
[16:11] <rbasak> I think it's one word.
[16:11] <gnuoy> ta
[16:12] <gnuoy> I'm going to close the open discussion unless anyone has anything to throw in?
[16:12] <gnuoy> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:12] <gnuoy> Same time next week with the ship in the safe hands of gaughen
[16:13] <gnuoy> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:13] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Sep  8 16:13:02 2015 UTC.
[16:13] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-09-08-16.00.moin.txt
</pre>
