{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon May 11th 2015 16:38 UTC
* '''End''': 17:05 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Tyler Hicks (tyhicks)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* All present

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) and Felix Geyer (debfx) provided debdiffs for trusty-vivid for quassel (LP: #1448911)
** Felix Geyer (debfx) provided debdiffs for precise-utopic for unrar-nonfree (LP: #1451260) 
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** identify and prioritize the Security Team's work backlog
** work on review tools for Snappy
** discuss Snappy stable updates with other teams
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: cve triage
** libtasn1 and icu updates are out the door
** pending security updates
** embargoed issue
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** apparmor upload for wiley (will look at the recent Debian upload for that)
** apparmor 12.04 SRU
** gcc pie testing (few more test rebuilds, then can proceed with benchnmarking)
** tyhicks
** weekly role: community
** identify and prioritize the Security Team's work backlog  
** patch security updates
** add kernel keyring mediation support to AppArmor parser
** jjohansen
** Prepare for monthly AppArmor meeting
** Make sure that 4.1-rc3 is ready for Wily in regards to AppArmor
** Prepare pull AppArmor request to get patches into 4.2
** sarnold
** weekly role: bug triage
** OpenStack security updates: updates for 12.04 and newer should be doable this week
** chriscoulson
** Mozilla update week
** embargoed update
** merge media-permissions branch
** work on "Persist permission request decisions for a session" (LP: #1428754)
** Oxide code reviews
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-05-11-16.38.moin.txt
