{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

  
   04:00 Kamion         just attempting to round up the other CC members now
   === jpatrick [n=patrick@ubuntu/member/jpatrick] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === elmo [n=james@83-216-156-21.jamest747.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:02 azeem          I think mako might be on a plane
   === Kamping_Kaiser [n=kgoetz@easyubuntu/docteam/KampingKaiser/x-3453498] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:02 azeem          back to the US; not sure though
   === GazzaK [n=Gary@81.130.170.65] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:02 Kamion         I forgot to check when he was flying back, it's true
   04:02 jenda          and the sabdfl?
   04:03 azeem          11:46 < mako> i'm off!
   04:03 azeem          that's CEST
   === robitaille [n=daniel@ubuntu/member/robitaille] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:03 Kamion         I believe he should be around unless the brief UTC/local time confusion we had with his scheduling was worse than I thought
   === sabdf1 [n=mark@195.58.90.162] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:03 Kamion         aha
   04:04 jenda          ah :)
   04:04 sabdf1         hi all
   04:04 Seveas         hi
   04:04 jsgotangco     hi
   04:04 rodarvus       hi there
   04:04 Kamion         ok, we're ready to go then
   04:04 jjesse         morning :)
   04:04 Kamion         first item is Listiquette
   04:04 Hobbsee        hi all
   04:04 gnomefreak     hi
   === robitaille think we should schedule these meetings a bit more in advance...
   04:04 imbrandon      hi
   === jenda agrees
   04:04 rob            heh
   === nixternal +1
   04:05 Seveas         @topic
   === ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Community Council | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 28 Jun 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 29 Jun 14:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 04 Jul 20:00 UTC: Technical Board | 05 Jul 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 06 Jul 20:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team
   === ompaul [n=ompaul@ubuntu/member/ompaul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:05 sabdf1         apologies for that
   04:06 sabdf1         we are being pretty good about spreading the timezones around, though
   04:06 Kamion         it was a bit confused this time round due to my vacation and the intervening conferences
   04:06 sabdf1         so, listiquette
   04:06 Kamion         we'll try to do the next one properly
   04:06 sabdf1         the forums guys have a very good set of guidelines
   === ondrej [n=ondrej@ubuntu/member/ondrej] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:07 ondrej         mm all
   === jbailey [n=jbailey@195.58.90.162] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:07 Kamion         most of the ones mdke suggested are pretty mailing-list-specific
   04:07 sabdf1         http://www.ubuntuforums.org/faq.php?faq=policy
   04:07 Kamion         (apart from the CoC and topic-ness stuff at the top)
   04:08 Kamion         mdke said he can't make it to this meeting unfortunately, but I think we should be able to discuss it in his absence
   === elkbuntu [n=melissa@203-206-255-153.dyn.iinet.net.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:08 sabdf1         i have a slow connection here at the LP sprint
   === Davo_Dinkum [n=Davo_Din@c211-28-142-55.sunsh3.vic.optusnet.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:09 Kamion         ok, perhaps it would be possible to merge some of the "general policy" stuff from the forums guidelines
   === siccness [n=j00b@CPE-138-217-3-129.vic.bigpond.net.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:09 Kamion         although the forums have different problems they encounter in practice that they're trying to address, so probably not verbatim
   === lucychili [n=jhawtin@ppp224-242.lns2.adl4.internode.on.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:10 rob            I think most of the things on the Listiquette page just come down to common sense on behalf of its users
   04:10 sabdf1         hmm.. html fascism
   04:10 Kamion         Listiquette seems to be a pretty good start, so best-of-both should be fine
   04:10 Hobbsee        ah, we're supposed to reply underneath.  gotcha.
   04:10 sabdf1         i can't do FT-yellow in plain text!
   04:10 jsgotangco     heh
   04:10 Hobbsee        um, FT-yellow?
   04:11 rob            good question
   04:11 sabdf1         Hobbsee: what's your email address?
   04:11 YukiCuss       Hobbsee: the background colour he uses in his mail, I think.
   04:11 jsgotangco     he likes sending email in yellow background or something...'
   04:11 Hobbsee        sabdf1: hobbsee@kubuntu.org
   04:11 Hobbsee        YukiCuss: ah right
   === jsgotangco saw it in his laptop
   04:12 Kamion         with the exception of the "uses more bandwidth" bit, in practice I don't think I'd bother arguing the point as long as a plain-text alternate part was supplied
   04:12 Kamion         (re html)
   04:13 Hobbsee        Kamion: dont text-based clients not display html, and therefore leave a whole lot of rubbish around the actual text message?  i've never tried it
   04:13 rob            just one questing regarding the subject line though, from some locations where I read and want to reply to the mailing list I'm forced to modify the subject line so that the email passes though the gateway, any thoughts on the best way to get around this without breaking threads?
   04:13 gnomefreak     are the forums an Ubuntu-official forum or the content as far as "good pratices" not really controled?
   04:13 Kamion         Hobbsee: depends on the client, but anything that supports MIME (and nowadays most should) will display a preferred alternate part
   04:14 Kamion         so they'd display a text alternate
   04:14 Seveas         rob, most clients look at the In-reply-to header, not the subject line
   04:14 Hobbsee        Kamion: ah right.  like i say, i dont use mutt, etc
   04:14 simira         how
   04:14 siccness       mutts nice :)
   04:14 simira         uhm... when was this cc announced?
   04:14 rob            Seveas, ok (except my Outlook at work) :(
   04:14 jbailey        sabdfl has fallen off the Internet
   04:14 jbailey        He'll be back in a sec.
   04:14 YukiCuss       simira: too late.
   04:14 Hobbsee        simira: few hours ago
   04:14 Kamion         Hobbsee: mutt can display HTML, but I prefer to disable that because I haven't looked at its HTML decoding code in any detail and it seems likely to me that there might be vulnerabilities there that spammers could exploit
   04:14 simira         heh
   === mindspin [n=mindspin@pD95FFE57.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:15 Hobbsee        Kamion: right
   04:15 Kamion         simira: not long enough ago. sorry. we did this at the start of the meeting
   === ptomes [n=Administ@ip-89-102-53-104.karneval.cz] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   04:15 simira         Kamion: I just checked in on irc. Is it much left?
   04:15 Kamion         rob: Outlook (well, Express at least) was never really designed to cope with Internet mail as opposed to corporate mail - but anything designed for Internet mail will be fine with in-reply-to/references threading
   04:16 Kamion         simira: we've only just started
   04:16 Seveas         simira, meeting just started, still at listiquette
   04:16 simira         ah, great
   04:16 simira         (I wouldn't have made dinner though, if I knew ;p
   04:16 simira         )
   04:16 Kamion         gnomefreak: see the link sabdfl quoted, http://www.ubuntuforums.org/faq.php?faq=policy
   04:16 rob            I can live with it, but I have had complaints about it breaking threads from other users
   04:17 gnomefreak     Kamion: yeah i was looking at that
   04:17 sabdf1         when changing the subject, is it reasonable to start a new thread?
   04:17 sabdf1         in other words, compose a new message rather than replying to the thread?
   04:17 sabdf1         i'm happy with mdke's drafts, and also happy to say to him "look over the forums guidelines and pull in anything you think is relevant"
   === ogra_ibook [n=ogra@ubuntu/member/ogra] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:17 sabdf1         erk, sorry
   04:17 jsgotangco     yeah
   04:17 Kamion         sabdf1: I find it a bit difficult to follow discussions if people do that too much, personally
   04:17 Hobbsee        (sabdf1: heh, right.  rainbow or something would make it more interesting :P)
   04:17 Kamion         it can make sense if it's a total tangent and the thread is already quite deep, though
   04:17 Kamion         i.e. judgement call IMO
   04:18 sabdf1         Kamion: if they are changing the topic, do you prefer to see that in the same thread with new topic, or new thread?
   04:19 sabdf1         i'm ambivalent, but thought i'd ask what the best practice is
   04:19 Kamion        
   04:19 Kamion         damn, sorry, unfamiliar keyboard
   04:19 rob            common sense again, I think
   === robotgeek [i=venkat@ubuntu/member/robotgeek] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:20 Kamion         sabdf1: well, depends, sometimes changing the Subject: header is just a minor correction; if it's off onto a wildly different topic and there's not much to be gained from the previous quoted context then a new thread can make sense
   04:20 Kamion         I'd hesitate to try to lay down a rule either way
   04:20 sabdf1         ok, i don't think we need to address that then.
   04:20 Kamion         there's a specific problem mdke's trying to address there
   04:20 sabdf1         should we do a whip around the CC and see up or down how people feel about the document then?
   04:21 thoreauputic   thread hijacking is an annoyance
   04:21 thoreauputic   recent examples on the users list
   04:21 Kamion         which is that some mailing list clients are badly behaved and tend to follow up with "RE: blah" or "SV: blah" as a new thread, or that sometimes people don't understand their mail client's reply vs. new message functions
   === darkmatter_ [n=darkmatt@206-163-248-77.yktn.hsdb.sasknet.sk.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:22 Kamion         we can just annotate that sometimes a new thread makes sense if you're changing the topic and the old one's got too long and convoluted though *shrug*
   04:23 simira         agree on that
   === Meyer is Mario Meyer
   04:23 Kamion         sabdf1: what you said, I think it's a pretty sensible start and can be fleshed out a bit with selected stuff from the forums guidelines. It'd have to go in the "hello, you just joined this mailing list" mail if we want to have any expectation that even some people might read it though
   04:23 Seveas         The listiquette page could be linked in the standard mailman footer
   04:24 Kamion         that too, if there's reasonable space there
   04:24 ogra_ibook     why was it renamed btw ? it used to be ListiQuette
   04:25 Seveas         because it's only one word pwehaps...
   04:25 Kamion         ogra_ibook: that's pretty silly capitalisation considering that it's derived from the English word etiquette
   04:26 sabdf1         we should like to both this and the forums from the bottom of http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct
   04:26 Kamion         ListEtiquette might be easier for non-English speakers to grok
   04:26 ogra_ibook     Kamion, well, i tried to use a wiki compliant title
   04:26 Kamion         ogra_ibook: single words are still wiki-compliant
   04:26 sabdf1         +1 on ListEtiquette
   04:26 ogra_ibook     yeah, sounds way better
   04:26 sabdf1         but they do need special linking -fu
   04:26 Kamion         (actually the etymology is indirect via netiquette, but never mind)
   04:26 sabdf1         elmo: ?
   04:27 elmo           fine by me
   04:27 ogra_ibook     Kamion, what i'm bothered about is that since i created ListiQuette there were many people linking to it, it apparently got renamed without forwarding
   04:28 Kamion         ogra_ibook: ok, somebody should do a simple search/replace then
   04:28 Kamion         or stick a forwarding page in
   04:28 ogra_ibook     i dont care how its called now since i didnt touch it over a year, but the links should be preserved
   04:29 elmo           ogra_: so why don't you just add a forwarding page?  it's really not a big deal?
   04:29 sabdf1         ok, +1 from me and elmo
   04:29 sabdf1         can you auto-forward in Moin?
   04:29 jenda          yep
   04:29 jsgotangco     yes
   04:29 imbrandon      yea
   04:29 sabdf1         ok
   04:29 Seveas         lots of pages do that
   04:29 sabdf1         thanks everyone :-)
   === ogra_ibook looks how to do that
   04:30 Seveas         ##redirect
   04:30 robotgeek      infact the wiki move is thanks to #redirect :)
   04:30 imbrandon      ogra_ibook, #redirect <newpage>
   04:30 Kamion         so, sabdfl has to go RSN and I don't really want to do the IRC network thing in a hurry / without sabdfl's input
   04:30 Kamion         plus sabdfl has the art council thing he wants to talk about
   04:30 rob            no go on the IRC thing then?
   04:30 Kamion         does anyone mind if we table the IRC network item for next meeting?
   04:30 lucychili      sounds cool
   04:31 jjesse         i don't
   04:31 sabdf1         i'm happy to abstain from the irc network discussion
   04:31 sabdf1         would be good to have ops input so i'll ask seveas to speak-but-not-vote in my stead
   04:31 Hobbsee        better to wait and see if freenode stabilises a bit before having that discussion
   04:31 Hobbsee        sabdf1: a lot of ops are around tonight, i believe.
   04:32 rob            it always was stable :)
   04:32 Seveas         I summarized my pov on this topic on http://wiki.kaarsemaker.net/UbuntuOnFreenode
   04:32 imbrandon      most are
   04:32 imbrandon      here
   04:32 Hobbsee        rob: right, except when it's being hacked, yes :P
   04:32 ompaul         I +1 Seveas
   04:32 gnomefreak     here
   04:32 simira         is the rest of ubuntu channels moving network?
   04:32 apokryphos     =)
   04:32 ompaul         Hobbsee, no other networks get attacked
   04:32 thoreauputic   I also +1 Seveas
   04:32 apokryphos     simira: no, that's just a topic of discussion.
   04:32 rob            Hobbsee, Freenode is a pretty big target compared to other networks
   04:32 sabdf1         ompaul: that's just a matter of time
   04:32 Hobbsee        rob: i realise that
   04:32 gnomefreak     I +1 Seveas also
   04:32 rob            we have around 30,000 users
   04:32 imbrandon      +1 on Seveas POV
   04:33 apokryphos     all the reasons on that wiki say it, really
   04:33 simira         ah
   04:33 Seveas         I'm curious, why was this placed on the agenda?
   04:33 simira         Seveas: to have some community input?
   04:33 Hobbsee        my comment was more "people are more likely to say "get away from freenode" seeing as there was the attack a few days ago, and it's fresh on their minds"
   04:33 ompaul         sabdf1, woops on my part, misread Hobbsee's comment
   04:33 thoreauputic   plus freenode is the default OSS network - most people expect to find us here
   04:33 simira         I know I have strong feelings for staying on frenode
   04:33 Kamion         Seveas: mdz put it there; I believe it came up at the conference and he dumped it in here
   === highvoltage [n=jono@196.36.161.235] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:34 sabdf1         we should not jump just because of a single attack
   04:34 Kamion         but I didn't notice it until after leaving the conference, so I didn't ask him about it
   04:34 imbrandon      sabdf1, exactly, that will happen anywhere
   04:34 robotgeek      even ubuntu had a security issue, we did not stop using it :)
   04:34 simira         sabdf1: agreed
   04:34 jjesse         i like what Seveas wrote on his wiki page, it makes sense not to jump
   04:34 Hobbsee        sabdf1: of course, but that's probably what's on a lot of people's minds right now.
   04:34 Seveas         robotgeek, nice argument
   04:34 rob            Seveas, +1 on UbuntuOnFreenode
   04:34 Kamion         it's perhaps worth noting that Ubuntu now has enough IRC users that us moving to a different network would make that network rather larger :-)
   04:34 sabdf1         unless we believe that freenode is irresponsible and liable to be more susceptible as a result
   04:34 sabdf1         and more of a target
   04:35 simira         I am on three of four networks, and freenode is definitely the best, imo
   04:35 YukiCuss       Kamion: it would also be a bit of an issue getting everyone current across.
   04:35 jenda          does anyone believe so?
   04:35 apokryphos     Kamion: exactly, as someone mentioned: oftc has 4000 users
   04:35 Seveas         Kamion, if all ubuntu users moved to oftc for instance, it would grow 25% - that WILL cause problems
   04:35 ogra_ibook     according to HedgeMage who is available in #edubuntu in her awake times it were ~20 passwords i dont think that justifies a move
   04:35 apokryphos     we have well over 1000 in all ubuntu-related channels
   04:35 simira         three _or_ four
   04:35 jjesse         think of all of the changes that would have to be made if we moved networks, all of the refrences that are in documenation etc to freenode
   04:35 ogra_ibook     (HedgeMage is freenode staff)
   04:35 elmo           YukiCuss: not really - Debian recently did it
   04:35 sabdf1         i'm +1 on seveas' document, can we jump to a different topic?
   04:35 sabdf1         i unfortunately need to head to dublin in a few minutes
   04:35 sabdf1         well
   04:35 rob            sabdf1, we are working hard to stay one step ahead of the hackers
   04:35 YukiCuss       elmo: !
   04:35 sabdf1         i think i will love dublin
   04:35 Seveas         sabdf1, sounds good to me
   04:35 elmo           Seveas: no it wouldn't, not if we're sure to check with them in advance
   04:35 sabdf1         but i will miss part of this meeting
   04:36 ompaul         sabdf1, you talking today?
   04:36 sabdf1         ompaul: tomorrow. writing the speech tonight :-/
   === Davo_Dinkum [n=Davo_Din@c211-28-142-55.sunsh3.vic.optusnet.com.au] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   04:36 Kamion         Seveas: (that's assuming that no Ubuntu users are currently on OFTC, which isn't true, but ok)
   04:36 Seveas         Next topic (if no one objects on moving on) is locoteams
   04:36 apokryphos     Kamion: there's around 20 r so last time I checked
   04:36 sabdf1         Seveas: i put another item on the general list
   04:37 Seveas         ah, *refreshes*
   04:37 Seveas         art council
   04:37 apokryphos     12 now, in fact
   04:37 sabdf1         ok, just a brief update
   04:38 sabdf1         the art list has been very active
   04:38 Seveas         yeah, it came out of deep freeze in the last months
   04:38 sabdf1         things picked up in the rush to dapper, so we were not able to harness much of that energy for the last release
   04:38 sabdf1         but we had good participation in the latest dev summit in paris
   04:38 sabdf1         and i'm optimistic we can get good participation in edgy
   04:38 jsgotangco     yay
   04:38 sabdf1         participation == learning, mentoring, and some rough edges no doubt
   04:39 sabdf1         anyhow, here's (roughly) the structure we are working towards
   === dinda [n=dinda@cpe-72-181-83-200.houston.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:39 sabdf1         an arts council, appointed by the CC
   04:39 sabdf1         much like the CC is working with the forums to be involved in the appointment of the forums admins
   04:39 simira         sounds good
   === ptomes [n=Administ@ip-89-102-53-104.karneval.cz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:40 sabdf1         once that is in place and well proven we will delegate some membership-recognition fu to them
   04:40 sabdf1         so artists making a sustained and substantial contribution to ubuntu can get membership through the arts council rather than directly through the CC
   04:40 sabdf1         which will be good, because we have people making good constributions and not getting recognised
   === lukketto [n=lukketto@host60-37.pool871.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:40 sabdf1         each release will also get a set of artists-in-chief
   === lukketto [n=lukketto@host60-37.pool871.interbusiness.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   04:41 sabdf1         we have appointed frank schoep for ubuntu for edgy, and ken wimer for kubuntu for edgy
   04:41 sabdf1         we will rotate those positions to ensure new blood gets a chance to lead
   04:41 sabdf1         and to learn how to interact with the distro
   04:41 sabdf1         a-i-c's are responsible for interfacing to the distro dev teams
   04:41 sabdf1         they will attend distro meetings
   04:41 sabdf1         they will also be responsible for the default "look and feel" of their release
   04:42 sabdf1         and will work with canonical on things like packaging for cd's / dvd's etc
   04:42 sabdf1         they will lead a "theme team" for the default theme in that release
   04:42 sabdf1         human in the case of ubuntu edgy
   04:42 Kamion         will the a-i-c be appointed by the art council in future, or do you intend to reserve judgement on that particular appointment?
   04:42 sabdf1         i forget what it's called for kubuntu edgy
   04:42 jjesse         crystal?
   04:43 Riddell        we're currently considering "Kubuntu Face"
   04:43 Hobbsee        sabdf1: crystal/polyester
   04:43 sabdf1         i've appointed the a-i-c's, and we should plan to continue to keep tight reign on that, but with arts council input
   04:43 Hobbsee        i think.
   04:43 Kamion         right
   04:43 sabdf1         the a-i-c's are part time jobs with funding from canonical
   04:43 sabdf1         so we can reasonably expect consistent attendance and coverage
   04:43 sabdf1         then, there will be additional theme teams
   04:43 sabdf1         so that we work on a diversity of themes
   04:44 elmo           does this mean we'll have less lastminute.com-ing on artwork?
   04:44 sabdf1         each theme will get a leader (the a-i-c's lead the default themes)
   04:44 elmo           :-P
   04:44 Kamion         ah, for a funded position that appointment policy makes perfect sense
   04:44 sabdf1         elmo: almost certainly not :-)
   04:44 sabdf1         but we'll see!
   04:44 simira         sabdf1: I think this sounds really good
   04:44 Seveas         "THIS IS NOT THE FINAL ARTWORK"
   04:44 sabdf1         so, folks who don't like the default theme are welcome to join alternative theme teams
   04:44 imbrandon      lol
   04:44 sabdf1         or start new ones
   04:45 sabdf1         this way, there's room for the tangoista's
   04:45 Kamion         we're still debating how the distro team meetings are going to work for Edgy (Ian's collating input on useful timezones)
   04:45 sabdf1         and the tangerinists
   04:45 Kamion         but both Frank and Ken are in fairly central timezones so it seems unlikely that that would present a problem
   04:45 sabdf1         we want to have a set of themes in edgy that covers high-speed-low-complexity, high-contrast-for-accessibility, etc
   04:45 Kamion         going to work> with regard to scheduling I mean
   04:45 Hobbsee        on artwork, was the decision to have the same theme across kubuntu/ubuntu/xubuntu, just in different colours, implemented?  I never heard the final decision on that.
   04:46 Hobbsee        (sorry if it's too offtopic)
   04:46 sabdf1         right now the art guys (troy sobotka leading) are organising nominations for the arts council
   04:46 sabdf1         and the cc will be asked to appoint them in the next week or two
   04:46 sabdf1         so folks who are interested - please go over to the art team list and participate
   04:46 sabdf1         any concerns, issues or questions?
   04:47 sabdf1         sorry, i've been winging it a little on this one but i think it's off to a reasonable start and i wanted to get balls rolling
   04:47 simira         can we get noticed earlier for the next cc?
   04:47 Hobbsee        sabdf1: my question above, if it's not too offtopic
   04:47 Kamion         "balls will roll"> sounds painful
   04:47 sabdf1         Hobbsee: no, wehave an official policy of independence
   04:47 Riddell        Hobbsee: I don't think kubuntu or xubuntu want to see that
   04:48 Hobbsee        sabdf1: excellent!  :D
   04:48 sabdf1         the a-i-c's are absolutely NOT required to enforce any consistency
   04:48 Kamion         simira: we covered that at the start of the meeting
   04:48 Hobbsee        Riddell: *exactly*
   04:48 simira         Kamion: ah. sorry.
   04:48 Kamion         15:05 < sabdf1> apologies for that
   04:48 Kamion         15:06 < sabdf1> we are being pretty good about spreading the timezones around, though
   04:48 Kamion         15:06 < Kamion> it was a bit confused this time round due to my vacation and the intervening conferences
   04:48 Kamion         15:06 < Kamion> we'll try to do the next one properly
   04:48 sabdf1         of course we expect them to learn from one another and spread the best ideas
   04:48 sabdf1         but we want the KDE folks to feel like Kubuntu is *Genuine KDE*
   04:48 simira         lol
   04:48 sabdf1         and the same for the Gnome and XFCE guys with Ubuntu and Xubuntu
   04:48 apokryphos     exactly
   === imbrandon nods *
   04:48 Hobbsee        hehe good
   04:48 sabdf1         there are some places that bitesus
   04:49 ogra_ibook     "collaboration to the *core*" :)
   04:49 sabdf1         like the bug reports from folks with both ubuntu-desktop and kubuntu-desktop installed
   04:49 sabdf1         who wonder why oo.o went blue
   04:49 sabdf1         but maybe we can find nice solutions to those too, one by one
   04:49 elmo           (they should probably just conflict?)
   04:49 sabdf1         any other issues?
   04:49 imbrandon      elmo, no
   04:50 ogra_ibook     elmo, careful, dont let Keybuk read that :)
   04:50 sabdf1         elmo: some folks might run a thin client server with users who have their own login prefs
   04:50 Seveas         elmo, not if you don't want keybuk to chase you with a large pointy stick
   === jjesse [n=jjesse@64.186.55.234] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:50 Hobbsee        hehe - but who *doesnt* want to be chased with a long pointy stick?
   === nixternal :)
   04:50 elmo           Seveas/ogra: you're thinking of something else
   04:51 elmo           keybuk gets annoyed about misuse of conflicts where replaces is better
   04:51 ogra_ibook     elmo, i'm thinking of my battle with the screensavers ...
   04:51 elmo           but sabdfl's right, conflicting isn't a good idea
   === darkmatter_ [n=darkmatt@206-163-248-77.yktn.hsdb.sasknet.sk.ca] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   04:52 Seveas         anything else or shall we move on?
   04:52 Seveas         *silence*
   04:52 Hobbsee        move on
   04:52 sabdf1         ok
   04:52 jjesse         i guess that means move on :)
   04:52 Seveas         yeah
   04:53 Seveas         did any of the locoteam leaders make it today?
   === YukiCuss raises hand.
   04:53 Seveas         YukiCuss, ok, good to see at least one
   04:54 YukiCuss       seeing no one else, shall i go then?
   04:54 Seveas         yeah, please do
   04:54 YukiCuss       okay!
   04:54 YukiCuss       basically, i'm here just to give a progress update on the Australian team.
   === bddebian [n=bdefrees@mail.ottens.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:54 YukiCuss       we've become more of an `active' team, and are here as part of a wish to be an `official' (recognised) team.
   04:55 YukiCuss       we've been having regular fortnightly meetings for about 3~4 months, in a self-regulating manner.
   04:55 Kamion         I thought we recognised the .au team a while back
   04:55 YukiCuss       there was no official decision on that, so i have understood.
   04:55 YukiCuss       i spoke to Matthias Ulrichs about it, and he said that we were proposed until we next turned up and discussed it.
   04:55 Kamion         give me a moment to dig
   04:56 YukiCuss       at the moment, we're still here: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamList , on `proposed'.
   04:56 sabdf1         i need to step afk now. seveas, could you stand in my place for the member discussions? we'll give elmo the casting vote if needed
   === Ckenyon [n=chrisken@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:57 Seveas         sabdf1, will do, thanks!
   04:57 sabdf1         ok, i'll review the log later
   04:57 Hobbsee        bye sabdf1
   04:57 Seveas         and have fun in eire!
   === jenda waves nervously
   04:57 YukiCuss       have fun mark!
   04:57 sabdf1         thanks all see you again soon
   04:57 siccness       Catcha
   04:57 Kamion         perhaps I'm wrong; I can't find it in the logs, so I'll assume smurfix is correct
   04:57 Kamion         bye Mark
   === nalioth [n=nalioth@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.nalioth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:57 YukiCuss       Kamion: *nods*
   04:58 YukiCuss       shall i continue a review of our activity, then?
   04:58 Kamion         pleased do
   04:58 Kamion         s/d//
   04:58 YukiCuss       sure.
   04:58 Hobbsee        jenda: dont worry, youv'e got ages to wait
   04:58 YukiCuss       so, we've been having an active IRC channel, over the course of which we've been supporting local users who have been asking for help.
   04:59 YukiCuss       as with our mailing list, where we've been discussing local matters.
   04:59 YukiCuss       such matters include the recent government legislation that has come into review, which could affect FOSS in Australia.
   04:59 YukiCuss       our members are fairly active contributors to ubuntu, including Ubuntu Members itself.
   05:00 YukiCuss       (from the team here now includes elkbuntop, Kamping_Kaiser, siccness, Hobbsee, thoreauputic and lucychili (!))
   === shenki clears throat
   05:00 gnomefreak     lol
   === Kamping_Kaiser giggles
   05:00 YukiCuss       and shenki! dear me.
   05:00 YukiCuss       we've also been compiling lists of local vendors who support (or do NOT support) Ubuntu,
   05:00 Seveas         YukiCuss, that is a really good initiative
   === Hobbsee would not be confident to speak for the team, having not been there much.
   05:00 YukiCuss       and ones who do or do not agree to ship without Microsoft products.
   05:00 Seveas         in NL we're going to do the same soon
   05:01 YukiCuss       neat! :)
   05:01 Seveas         would be nice to share some experiences (but not in this meeting)
   05:01 YukiCuss       there's also been emails going back and forth to PC magazines about including Ubuntu, such as APC (arguably one of the most famous ones around here).
   === jenda notes that. Would be a great thing to do here (or everywhere)
   05:01 Seveas         YukiCuss, sounds like -au is doing a great job
   05:02 YukiCuss       we're operating smoothly! ^_^
   05:02 YukiCuss       we have a nice community spirit, overcoming a few hurdles in the past few fortnights.
   05:02 Kamion         YukiCuss: how are you linked with Linux Australia, if at all?
   05:02 YukiCuss       and there've been a few (physical) meetups including the Dapper release parties.
   05:02 YukiCuss       Kamion: we have no official connection with Linux Australia, but we do have members who are also members (or active contributors) to L.A.
   === sabdf1 [n=mark@195.58.90.162] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   05:04 Kamion         nod
   05:04 YukiCuss       so, that's the summary of some of our past activities. (since we last attended, or so!)
   05:04 shenki         Kamion: linux australia has been conducting an awareness campaign and petition regarding local DRM laws, something which we discussed at our meeting tonight about  getting involved with
   05:06 YukiCuss       if we could manage it, having backing from a company or companies (local ones, as well as Canonical) would help turn the tides with regards to these proposals.
   05:06 Seveas         anyone have a question for YukiCuss ?
   05:06 Kamion         ok, from some of the roster of members I doubt you'll have a problem
   05:06 Kamion         (as locoteam)
   05:06 YukiCuss       *nods*
   05:08 Kamion         the local CD distribution thing is a very useful initiative to take some of the strain off shipit
   05:08 Kamion         thank you for that
   05:08 Kamion         do you know if Peter's going to be updating that to dapper?
   05:08 YukiCuss       well, we've had quite a few members partaking in that!
   05:08 YukiCuss       i hope that he will be, but i haven't been able to get in contact with him very recently.
   05:08 Kamping_Kaiser Kamion, we dont have many dappers yet ;)
   05:08 YukiCuss       he has been doing an excellent job, though.
   05:09 Kamping_Kaiser absolutely
   === lukketto [n=lukketto@host60-37.pool871.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:09 lukketto       Hi!
   05:10 Seveas         hi lukketto, we'll get to member candidates soon
   05:10 lukketto       OK, thank you!
   05:10 Seveas         Kamion, do we need votes on ubuntu-au?
   05:10 Kamion         ok, if there are no more questions for Yuki, I move that we approve ubuntu-au
   05:10 Seveas         seconded
   05:10 Kamion         elmo: ?
   05:11 elmo           +1
   05:11 Kamion         YukiCuss: ok, go ahead and get in touch with smurfix for whatever you need there
   05:11 Kamion         thanks
   05:11 YukiCuss       alright! ^_^
   === shenki cheers
   05:11 YukiCuss       thank you very much!
   05:11 lucychili      \o/
   05:11 Seveas         congratz!
   05:11 Kamping_Kaiser yay.
   05:11 jjesse         congrats
   05:11 Kamion         any other locoteam folks here?
   05:11 rodarvus       congratulations :)
   05:11 Kamion         for those on the agenda
   05:12 Seveas         going down in 3
   05:12 Seveas         2
   05:12 Seveas         1
   05:12 Seveas         ok, member candidates
   05:12 lukketto       Hi everybody!
   05:12 Seveas         Rolando Blanco / whitesoft?
   05:12 lukketto       I'm Luca Gervasio
   05:12 Seveas         are you around?
   05:12 Seveas         lukketto, please wait your turn
   05:12 lukketto       sorry!
   05:12 Seveas         np
   05:13 lukketto       :)
   05:13 ompaul         Seveas, ask again methinks
   05:13 Seveas         no whitesoft in sight
   05:13 Kamion         jenda: here?
   === jenda raises his hand
   05:13 Seveas         jenda, that means you're up - please give us your 3-liner
   05:14 jenda          here it comes:
   05:14 jenda          I'm a Law student in Prague, Czech Republic. Through Free Software and Ubuntu, I have developed an interest in intellectual property law (my mind probably follows similar lines to the Piratbyran).
   05:14 jenda          Within Ubuntu, I have joined and supported the Easyubuntu Team ever since it's (re)birth, I have revived the Marketing Team two months ago and we will have our first meeting here tomorrow. I've also been active with the New User Network and on my own exploring what this project could look to do in the future.
   05:14 jenda          Most recently, I've begun helping the Czech community get up and get together in several things - the IRC channel, translating the CoC and a lot more, and of course, local marketing. I made a speech about the localisation of Ubuntu to the local OpenSolaris-UG, which ondrej couldn't make it to.
   05:14 jenda          My wiki page describes in more detail: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JendaVancura
   05:14 jenda          I'll take this opportunity to ping some of those that might be able to testify on my activity:
   05:14 jenda          ondrej, robotgeek, nalioth, ompaul, gnomefreak, silbs, nixternal, ptomes,
   05:14 jenda          eek... that's a three page three liner, sorry ;)
   === nixternal is here
   === ondrej is here as well from Czech LocoTeam
   05:15 robotgeek      i can vouch for jenda on the Marketing Team, and has helped more collaboration with the doc team.
   05:15 gnomefreak     he has been working with me to try and bring -nun up and moving foward and he helps alot in #ubuntu
   05:15 Seveas         jenda is indeed very active in quite a few places since a while ago - keeps poking me for things
   05:16 jjesse         i have seen jenda in #ubuntu-doc offering help
   05:16 Kamion         jenda's wiki essay^Wpage looks pretty good
   05:16 Seveas         reviving dead things like a loose cannon
   05:16 Seveas         (which is meant as a compliment)
   === ptomes is here
   05:16 Kamping_Kaiser no matter where i go jenda s been doing stuff, cant escape ;)
   05:16 ondrej         jenda is helping on #ubuntu-cz and with other stuff on Czech LoCo Team, he also helped to settle down some of personal problems in Czech community
   === ompaul can point at his involvement in various activities, marketing / IRC etc
   05:17 Kamion         jenda: were you (remotely?) involved in the marketing discussions at the recent conference? I wasn't involved in them myself so didn't notice either way
   05:17 nixternal      one thing about jenda is the common question..."What has Jenda been doing for Ubuntu?"...my answer is simple...What hasn't Jenda been doing...Jenda is doing a remarkable job organizing a Marketing team with great community support
   05:17 nalioth        jenda is a great asset to Ubuntu in his efforts on the New User Network and the marketing team
   05:17 Kamion         but I know there were some marketing things on the schedule
   05:17 jenda          Kamion: Yes, I'm participating in that. I put the meeting on the schedule.
   05:17 ondrej         jenda is also one of few people who offered help with cz loco and he actually _did_ some work :-)
   05:17 Kamion         jenda: how did they go?
   05:18 nixternal      jenda has taken much of his time and focused his attention on getting the marketing team up to par for the Spread Ubuntu campaign as well as created contacts (that support his every effort) from w/in Canonical
   05:18 jenda          Kamion: the meeting will be tomorrow and we hope to get a new, unified marketing team going on LP, mailing list, wiki and #ubuntu-marketing.
   05:18 ondrej         but real question is: do we really want him in ubuntu, because he will not give anybody any rest :-D
   05:18 jenda          ondrej: thank you
   05:18 jjesse         +1 ondrej
   05:18 nixternal      lol ondrej ;)
   05:18 nixternal      +100
   05:18 Kamping_Kaiser lol
   05:18 gnomefreak     lol
   05:19 ptomes         I appreciate Jenda's capability of help with presentation abou Czech localisation and his contribution to Czech community including forum moderating.
   05:19 Kamion         ok, all sounds good to me, +1 based on the sustained/significant marketing and czech contributions
   05:19 Seveas         +1 from me too
   05:19 Seveas         elmo, ?
   05:19 Kamion         and for bugging me about this meeting until I gave in
   05:19 elmo           +1
   05:19 Hobbsee        Kamion: hehe, that'd be right
   05:19 Seveas         jenda, congratulations!
   05:19 nixternal      CONGRATS JENDA!!!!
   05:19 matthewrevell  Congrats Jenda :)
   05:19 jenda          Thanks, everyone :)
   05:19 Seveas         Joey Stanford?
   05:19 jjesse         congrats jenda
   05:19 gnomefreak     congrats jenda
   05:19 Kamping_Kaiser woot. awsome jenda
   05:20 nixternal      feel the love ;)
   05:20 imbrandon      congrats jenda
   05:20 rodarvus       congrats
   05:20 nixternal      now that is Ubuntu at it's finest
   05:20 Kamping_Kaiser :)
   05:20 lucychili      =)
   === jenda is feeling it ;) Ubuntu...
   05:20 Seveas         Jon Dowd?
   05:20 nalioth        y'all got other channels to feel the love in, let's keep up with the meeting
   05:20 Seveas         Maxence Dunnewind / Sp4rky?
   05:21 ptomes         Jenda: I am glad to see you as a Ubuntu member, my friend and colleague.
   05:21 Seveas         lukketto, (LucaGervasio) - you're up. If any of the people I called before still show up, please poke me.
   05:22 Seveas         lukketto, ?
   05:22 lukketto       ok
   05:22 lukketto       I'm Luca Gervasio, 31, living in Italy and I'm a mathematician. I work in a University where last month my team developed and published a new way to identify objects using mathematical analysis.
   05:23 lukketto       I joined the Edubuntu Documentation, Edubuntu School Support and Edubuntu Testers teams, to spread the use of Ubuntu in pubblic schools where, often, the lack of funds is a serious problem(!). I noticed that kids are very happy about an operating system targeted on them and they find the use of PCs more easier than using other OSs. If we work on kids bringing them different options, one day they will be able to choose among d
   05:23 lukketto       Promoting Ubuntu needs documentation in your language and for this reason I decided to become a member of the Ubuntu Italian Translator Team (thanks MDKE!) and at present we're translating the new "Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter"(UWN) too.
   === jsgotangco [n=jsg123@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:24 Kamion         you're a member of a lot of teams; how do you keep up? :)
   05:24 lukketto       I work in my office...
   05:24 Seveas         heh, I know the feeling
   05:24 lukketto       if my boss sees me...
   05:24 lukketto       I'm fired :D
   05:24 Kamion         btw, cut off at "choose among d"
   05:25 ogra           then you got a space and a d more than me :)
   05:25 lukketto       Actually I work in a University
   05:25 lukketto       ...it is very interesting spreading Ubuntu in it
   05:25 Seveas         ogra, can you cheerlead for his edubuntu work?
   05:26 ogra           Seveas, i have never seen him around in #edubuntu and dunno where the doc team guys are that might have worked with him
   05:26 Seveas         and are there ane people from .it to help ogra cheerleading?
   05:27 lukketto       (I'm a new member)
   05:27 ogra           lukketto, btw, since you are so much involved in edubuntu stuff, why didnt you apply for membership at the edubuntu council ?
   05:28 ogra           lukketto, membership implies that you already did some contribution, joining the teams doesnt suffice
   05:28 lukketto       Sure, for this in edubuntu I'm very new...
   === dsas [n=dean@host217-42-226-72.range217-42.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:29 ogra           you should at least have some howto or some wikipages written or made some artwork or something else that counts as contribution and is measureable
   05:29 Seveas         lukketto, sounds like you're doing a good job, keep up that good work
   05:29 lukketto       ...my contribution in edubuntu works under the courtains...
   05:29 lukketto       Spreading ubuntu in pubblic school is not easy
   05:29 lukketto       (edubuntu)
   05:29 jsgotangco     admittedly, these edubuntu teams aren't that tangible with regards to team output at the moment
   === jbailey [n=jbailey@195.58.90.162] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Digital]
   05:29 ogra           lukketto, well, the council needs something it can measure
   05:30 lukketto       I have to fight with teacher that don't know how to switch on a pc...
   05:30 lukketto       ...anc that think that windows is the only solution for the internet...
   05:30 Kamping_Kaiser lukketto, how long have you been involved in using ubuntu, and how long contributing?
   05:30 Seveas         But I'm afraid that without being able to confirm contributions I am going to say -1 for now - maybe you can work together with me in the next weeks gathering testimonials from people so the decision wil be easier
   05:30 lukketto       I have been using linux (RH first and Debian later) for about 5 years and Ubuntu since Hoary. What brought me to Ubuntu? I'm an "idealist" and so, when I heard about a community that has for its motto "Linux for the human beings", what do you think I did? I immediately joined it and signed the code of conduct!
   05:31 jjesse         i had to apply twice i think before i made the council, just need to hav emore people back up your work
   05:31 lukketto       But something is going on in the pubblic school....
   05:31 Kamion         OK, sounds like we may have to discount the Edubuntu contributions for now since the Edubuntu folks haven't been aware of them, although the Italian translation work should be tangible
   05:32 Kamion         any Italian translators here?
   05:32 lukketto       ...thanks to my girlfriend (she is a teacher) I introduced me in several schools ;) ...
   05:32 lukketto       Kamion I tried to contact MDKE...
   05:32 lukketto       ....but he is offline :(
   05:33 Kamion         (I haven't quite figured out how to get Launchpad to tell me who translated what)
   05:33 Seveas         Kamion, -EIMPOSSIBLE
   05:33 Kamion         (though somebody claimed the other day that it's possible)
   05:33 Seveas         really?
   05:34 ompaul         https://launchpad.net/people/gervasio/+translations
   05:34 Kamion         yeah, it was in person though and they didn't give details
   05:34 Seveas         ompaul, those aren't the actual translations
   05:34 Kamion         ompaul: at the single-string level, not the template level
   05:34 ompaul         ahh
   05:35 lukketto       I'm an official italian ubuntu translator, as you can see I work on the wiki in the italian site
   05:36 Kamion         hmm, ok, this is basically our fault because the meeting was scheduled with so little notice, so not as many people as usual can turn up to offer corroboration
   05:36 Seveas         true that
   05:36 Kamion         lukketto: right, the problem is figuring out how to separate out your contributions from those of the other translators so that we can get an idea of how much stuff you've done
   05:36 Kamion         unfortunately the tools aren't quite adequate for this; I'm going to file a launchpad bug about that if there isn't one already
   05:37 Kamion         lukketto: would you mind persuading people who've worked with you to show up in two weeks' time, and we can talk about it then?
   05:37 lifeless       rosetta karma is a indicator of activity
   05:37 Kamion         this isn't a rejection at all - it's just good to gather second opinions
   05:37 Seveas         Kamion, bug 80
   05:37 Ubugtu         Malone bug 80 in rosetta "cannot see who put in bad translation" [Wishlist,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/80
   === Kamion looks
   05:38 lukketto       Kamion: I' trying to contact my "team leader" but it seems he is offline :(
   05:38 Kamion         lukketto: yeah, mdke said he wouldn't be able to make this meeting unfortunately
   05:38 YukiCuss       afaik, translation karma has gone up as of late.
   05:39 Kamion         if mdke is happy with the work you've been doing, I'll have no issue
   05:39 Seveas         same here (but next time I won't be voting)
   05:39 Kamion         mdke is normally around, and if he won't be around next week I'll make sure to get a comment from him in advance
   05:39 Kamion         er next fortnight
   05:39 lukketto       Kamion: I'll try now with an email...I hope he is online
   05:40 Seveas         lukketto, he isn't - he already told us that
   05:40 Kamion         Seveas: this is kind of the other way up from that bug
   05:40 Kamion         going from person to list of translations rather than from translation to contributor
   05:40 ogra           for the edubuntu-it stuff try to get hold of bimberi, he's doing lots of edubuntu-it work
   05:41 Hobbsee        ping?
   === davi_ [n=davi@201.21.137.139] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:41 Seveas         Hobbsee, pong
   05:41 Hobbsee        Seveas: thanks, thought my connection was going down.
   === davi_ [n=davi@201.21.137.139] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   05:42 Seveas         lukketto, sorry that we have to disappoint you for now, but please come back in two weeks time when the meeting datetime will be known to more people
   === rraphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:43 lukketto       Seveas: ok
   05:44 Seveas         rodarvus, you're up next
   05:44 rodarvus       hi there
   05:44 rodarvus       Rodrigo Novo ("rodarvus"), Canonical Employee, I was at UDS Paris last week
   05:44 rodarvus       I'm working on Edubuntu, LTSP and on the One Laptop per Child projects (and some other unrelated Ubuntu packages)
   05:44 rodarvus       In the past I was developer (and then lead developer) for the Conectiva Linux distro (at Conectiva), did performance/optimization C development at Terra Lycos, developed an OpenOffice.org derivative (at Freedows Consortium) and did development on the Maemo Platform SDK (at Nokia Institute of Technology)
   05:44 Seveas         ogra, start the cheerleading please ;)
   05:44 rodarvus       :)
   05:44 ogra           \o/ \o/ \o/ \o/
   05:44 ogra           ro
   05:45 ogra           dra
   05:45 ogra           vus
   05:45 ogra           !!
   05:45 rodarvus       haha
   05:45 jjesse         lol
   05:45 gnomefreak     lol
   === ogra cheers !
   05:45 jsgotangco     \o_ rodarvus _o/
   05:45 rodarvus       rodarvus!
   05:45 rodarvus       oops :)
   05:45 ogra           hehe
   05:46 ogra           rodrigo and i met in paris and i'm eager to work with himm on edubuntu ...
   === Ckenyon [n=chrisken@217.205.109.249] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   05:46 Seveas         rodarvus, you do know that it will be hard to replace JaneW ;)
   05:46 rodarvus       Seveas, for this we'll have RichardW ;)
   05:46 jsgotangco     well he's not replacing JaneW =)
   05:47 ogra           indeed i cant do much about work related stuff yet, since there were only two weeks we worked together yet ... but he was very helpful at the spec discussions and i trust his skills to take the technical lead on edubuntu
   05:47 ogra           s/do/say/
   05:47 Kamion         https://launchpad.net/products/rosetta/+bug/51125
   05:47 Ubugtu         Malone bug 51125 in rosetta "can't get details of a translator's activities" [Untriaged,Unconfirmed]
   05:48 ogra           he also met the whole of the CC in person, so i guess they can judge themselves :)
   05:48 Seveas         heh
   05:48 Kamion         well, it's always difficult to deal impartially with new employees of course, but it's good to hear that rodarvus dived into the discussions in Paris helpfully
   05:49 Seveas         I only have the usual 'no 2 months of activity yet' argument, but that's a moot point for a canonical employee I guess
   05:49 Kamion         and I expect to get sustained contributions by virtue of the fact that who on earth quits a job after a month if they don't have to
   05:49 rodarvus       indeed
   05:49 ogra           especially with such sexy colleagues like me
   === ogra hides
   === Seveas refrains from commenting on that
   05:50 jsgotangco     ughh
   05:50 Kamion         rodarvus: are you finding your way around ok?
   === rodarvus rembembers the other Saturday :)
   05:50 ogra           lol
   05:50 rodarvus       Kamion, sure, its coming along nicely
   05:50 Kamion         incidentally, I'd never have recognised you from your photo on LP
   05:51 rodarvus       I had grown beard last week (but not on the LP photo)
   05:51 Kamion         I'm assuming you have a mentor, but feel free to shout in the direction of pretty much any of core-dev for guidance if need be
   05:52 rodarvus       Kamion, ogra is helping me a lot, indeed - thanks a lot for the offer - I'll surely bug core-dev in the next few weeks :)
   05:52 Kamion         righto, +1 as far as I'm concerned
   05:52 rodarvus       (starting today, probably)
   05:52 Seveas         +1
   05:52 Seveas         elmo, ?
   05:52 elmo           +1
   05:52 Seveas         heh
   05:52 rodarvus       thanks guys :)
   05:52 Seveas         ok, congratz rodarvus !
   05:52 jsgotangco     \o_ rodarvus _o/
   05:52 ogra           welcom rodarvus
   05:52 ogra           !!
   05:52 gnomefreak     congrats
   05:52 Kamion         done
   05:53 Seveas         indeed, nice work all
   05:53 rodarvus       I promise to work hard to keep the good name of Ubuntu
   05:53 ogra           else we'll just rename it :P
   05:53 Kamion         is Paul Schulz here?
   05:53 Seveas         Kamion, a CC meeting next week would not be too unreasonable I think, given that this one was poorly announced and it's been 4 weeks since the last one
   === Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:53 Kamion         honestly I'm not sure I have the stamina :P
   05:53 Seveas         hehe
   05:53 rodarvus       Seveas, I believe there is a Techical Board meeting next week
   05:54 rodarvus       aren't TB & CC meetings supposed not to overlap?
   05:54 Seveas         Kamion, in any case, *please* schedule it soon and notify $world
   05:54 Kamion         I'd rather just keep to the usual schedule, but schedule it now
   05:54 Kamion         elmo: can you get to Mark's schedule via Claire?
   05:54 Seveas         now would be soon enough
   05:54 elmo           sure
   05:55 Kamion         any times looking particularly good?
   05:55 elmo           yeah, anything but two weeks from today
   05:55 Kamion         we should probably cycle it a bit - either 2000 or 0800 perhaps
   05:55 elmo           sabdfl is away for 10-23
   05:55 Kamion         oh, doh
   === davi_ [n=davi@201.21.137.139] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === davi_ [n=davi@201.21.137.139] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   === siccness [n=j00b@CPE-138-217-3-129.vic.bigpond.net.au] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   === Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:56 jenda          (0800 is cruel on the americans)
   05:56 Kamion         erm. how about we do next week at 0800 UTC and then go back to three weeks after that?
   05:56 Seveas         jenda, 2000 is cruel on the australians ;)
   05:56 jenda          hehe ;)
   05:56 Kamion         jenda: we hardly ever do that time, so they can probably cope this once
   05:56 elmo           afternoon of the 6th is possible
   05:56 Hobbsee        Seveas: you bet it is.
   05:56 Kamion         6th is a Thursday
   05:56 elmo           alternatively we could dig up mako, if we can find him sabdfl is optional
   05:57 jenda          Kamion: true, it's only fair.
   05:57 elmo           kamion: yeah, he's not available on the tuesday
   05:57 Hobbsee        Kamion: 2100UTC isnt so bad, or 1300 UTC
   05:57 Kamion         elmo: let's do 2000 UTC in two weeks time then and hope that mako's around; that time is civilised for him
   05:57 Seveas         Hobbsee, we cycle meetings *because* we can't please everyone - so no point in complaining about a simgle meeting ;)
   05:57 Kamion         we can do the 0800 thing some other time
   05:57 elmo           kamion: shall we confirm with mako before getting people's hopes up?
   05:58 Kamion         elmo: ok, I'll send mail
   05:58 Kamion         and I'll take responsibility for announcing it
   05:58 Hobbsee        Seveas: i realise that, i was commenting on decent timezones for aussies, if you wanted them to be there in particular.  i got struck by a vicious kde keyboard bug, hence the disconnect before, so came in on the backend
   05:58 Seveas         Kamion, I'll send jenda to chase you ;)
   === jenda barks
   === Hobbsee gets her long pointy stick ready to spear Kamion for not announcing it early enough
   === Kamping_Kaiser has jenda snipped
   05:59 jenda          Seveas: you know what I'm good at ;)
   05:59 Seveas         Anyone have any other business for the CC?
   05:59 Seveas         going once
   05:59 Kamion         mail sent
   05:59 Seveas         going twice
   06:00 Seveas         ok, meeting ends! Thanks everyone, see you in two weeks (hopefully)
 

</pre>
