{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
04:59	mdz	Kamion, seb128, mvo, doko, Mithrandir, Riddell, ogra: ping
04:59	fabbione	mdz: i just managed to get one laptop up and running
04:59	Mithrandir	pong
04:59	ogra	pong
04:59	seb128	mdz: pong
04:59	Riddell	hi mdz
05:00	mvo	hello
05:00	zul	hi mdz
05:00	kwwii	hi
05:00	pitti	hi kwwii
05:01	Riddell	Linuturk_code: yes
05:01	mdz	Kamion, doko_: reping
05:01	doko_	pong
05:03	mdz	ok, good afternoon everyone, let's begin
05:03	mdz	pitti: will you start us off?
=== fabbione is ready too
05:03	pitti	sure
05:03	pitti	Done:
05:03	pitti	* security updates: Thunderbird/dapper, Thunderbird + all reverse dependencies for breezy, Firefox/dapper (needs final approval from mdz), gzip, kernel
05:03	pitti	* apt-get-debug-symbols: buildd side done by infinity, people.u.c. side done by me, announced to u-d-a, enjoy!
05:03	pitti	* bug fixing in various packages (mainly apport, hal, gnome-volume-manager, some FTBFS, some dapper updates)
05:03	pitti	* intro meeting with keescook
05:03	pitti	* heavy Knot-3 CD testing
05:03	pitti	* finished last bits of gnutls12->13 transition, gnutls12 in universe now
05:03	pitti	* managed to stay on top of the bug wave
05:03	pitti	Todo:
05:03	pitti	* fix langpack-o-matic infrastructure to work with new SRU policy (upload staging in *-proposed), urgently need to update dapper langpacks (also to fix some serious bugs)
05:03	pitti	* Beta testing
05:03	pitti	* care for mysql merge if infinity's workload is too high
05:04	pitti	* improve apport-retrace script to make use of new ddeb archive
05:04	pitti	* bug fixing, to the extent possible by freezes
=== shenki [n=shenki@ppp131-170.lns3.adl2.internode.on.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:04	pitti	mdz: btw, ffox 1.5.0.7 is prepared for dapper release; do you want to discuss that or shall I just go ahead?
05:04	mdz	pitti: I thought we already discussed it, if I'm confused then we should review it again
05:05	pitti	mdz: well, I never got a formal 'ok', that's why I'm asking
05:05	pitti	(just the ok for thunderbird)
05:05	mdz	pitti: ok, let's follow up by email
05:05	pitti	alright
05:05	mdz	pitti: is there anything on your list which should be on the beta todo list?
=== pitti notes that he set his last spec to 'implemented' today :)
=== sbalneav [n=sbalneav@mail.legalaid.mb.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== HiddenWolf [n=HiddenWo@136.117.dynamic.phpg.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:06	sbalneav	Hello
05:06	mdz	for reference, since it will come up many times during the meeting, it is at https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-6.10-beta
05:06	pitti	mdz: nothing is terribly urgent, no
05:06	mdz	you can nominate any bug for that list by setting the milestone, but make sure the importance is set appropriately
05:06	pitti	in general, I do think we should fix the ubuntu-meta behaviour
05:06	mdz	pitti: which behaviour?
05:07	pitti	ok, I'll check my bugs for good candidates, but I squashed most of the appropriate ones already
05:07	pitti	mdz: removing any u-desktop dependency marks all other u-desktop packages for auto-removal
05:07	pitti	unlike in previous releases
05:08	imbrandon	( *-desktop )
05:08	mdz	hmm, is that because the metapackage is used to install the livefs?
05:08	pitti	e. g. I can't even uninstall bug-buddy without apt wanting to kill my  entire system
05:08	mdz	rather than the task?
05:08	pitti	I didn't look into it so far, but I think so
05:08	mdz	pitti: open a bug, set the milestone to beta and let's talk with mvo about it
05:09	mvo	mdz: the current apt has native tasks support
05:09	pitti	mdz: alright
05:09	mdz	should be a trivial change to the livefs build script
05:09	mdz	pitti: thanks
05:09	mvo	mdz: its a matter of modifing the livefs build script
05:09	mdz	mvo: :-)
05:09	mdz	mvo: next
05:09	mvo	Did:
05:09	mvo	- bug triage
05:09	mvo	- added native tasks support into apt-get to make livefs build easier (apt-get install taskname^)
05:09	mvo	- improved the synaptic/apt support for automatic dependency display/manipulation
05:09	mvo	- knot3 cd testing
05:09	mvo	- bugfixing (apt, pango, gtk-im-libthai, g-a-i, vmware-player-kernel/dapper-security, update-manager, python-apt, python-central, python-defaults, anacron, bash, gnome-system-tools GST_NO_NTP)
05:09	mvo	- ddtp updates
05:09	mvo	- added a wikipage about automatic dependency removal and added it to ubuntu weekly news
05:09	mvo	- some work on the non-interactive dist-upgrader, some upgrade testing
05:09	mvo	Will do:
05:09	mvo	- more testing/bugfixing in the beta release
05:09	mvo	- update the gnome-app-install desktop files/icons
05:09	mvo	- investigate what to do with the dist-upgrader and early upgrading of apt (fot the breaks field). this was  blocked last week by not working dapper-backports
05:09	mvo	- user notification for non-free video drivers (these are bad m'kay)
05:09	mvo	- look into scim/xim mess (scim-chewing in edgy/dapper) and (maybe) create a ubuntu-l10n mailinglist for developer discussion about l10n/input-methods/font issues
05:09	mvo	- get apache logs to find duplicated HOSTIDs and forcefully reconfigure those *or* remove all old HOSTIDs data from popcon.ubuntu.com and upload new popcon that force reconfigure for all older versions to get a new HOSTID. this means we won't have valid data for a couple of days though
05:10	mdz	mvo: are we able to do ddtp translation using rosetta yet, and if not, is there a spec registered for it?
05:11	Kamion	here, sorry I'm late, just got back from the school run
05:11	mvo	mdz: rosetta has them, but its still manual in a lot of steps
05:11	mvo	partial because rosetta does not provide the needed api
05:11	mvo	partial because I haven't written more scripts to automate import/export yet
05:12	mvo	and there is some bugfixing to be done in the current scripts that deal with this
05:12	mvo	(my scripts)
05:12	mdz	mvo: ok
05:12	mdz	mvo: do you have anything for the beta todo list?
05:13	mvo	mdz: I don't think so, there may be stuff coming up though :) I would like to update the g-a-i desktop database
05:13	mdz	mvo: that seems like something which should go on the milestone checklist
05:13	mvo	mdz: does that mean I should add a bug for it and add it to the beta-milestone?
05:14	mvo	mdz: the dist-upgrader is very high priority now
05:14	mdz	mvo: no, talk with Mithrandir about adding it to the process checklist
=== Broken_Arrow [n=Julien@AToulon-152-1-80-228.w83-201.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:14	mvo	because the current breaks in the archive break the upgrader :(
05:14	mdz	mvo: hmm, is dist-upgrader not ready for upgrades to beta?
05:14	mdz	mvo: ok, that's important.  please open a bug and set the milestone so it appears on the list
05:14	mvo	mdz: not for packages with breaks, no
05:15	mvo	ok
05:15	mvo	will do
05:15	iwj	mvo: Is there anything I can do to help with the upgrader ?
05:15	iwj	I'm worried that this is starting to get rather late ...
05:15	mvo	iwj: possible, lets talk off-meeting
05:16	mdz	ok, thanks mvo
05:16	mdz	Kamion: next
05:16	iwj	mvo: OK
05:16	Kamion	Done:
05:16	Kamion	  recommends-support: germinate backport for dapper-updates, needed on drescher.
05:16	Kamion	  ubiquity: Trimmed about 150-200 off the bug list by means of rejections and duplications, fixed some common issues (including back/forward flow between gparted and the mountpoints page, yay), and started categorising the most common remaining bugs.
05:16	Kamion	  milestone-rhythm: Made the daily CD health checks not mail the release team quite so many times.
05:16	Kamion	To do:
05:16	Kamion	  usplash: Still need to handle tasksel enhancements to make resolution detection on fresh (d-i) install work properly. This will bite people who install the beta and then upgrade to Edgy, so is it beta-critical?
05:16	Kamion	  misc: Other beta-critical bugs (mostly loose ends of console-setup integration; estimate a good day's work for these). Rename server to minimal (?) on the alternate CDs, and hoover up any other relevant ubunt
05:16	Kamion	u-cdimage bugs.
05:16	Kamion	  ubiquity: I have two large classes of crashes still to deal with, tagged gtk-mainloop-crash and invalid-literal-for-int in Malone; need to figure out whether these are in fact duplicates, or whether there are multiple causes. Also want to deal with reserved usernames. All this is probably post-beta now.
05:17	mdz	Kamion: people who install the beta [from the alternate cd]  and then upgrade?
05:18	Riddell	Kamion: did abattoir contact you about oem-config-kde not not having to use metacity?
05:18	mdz	how does tasksel relate to resolution detection?
05:18	Kamion	mdz: usplash is installed before xserver-xorg, so can't fetch the mode from xorg.conf
05:18	mdz	Kamion: is the ubiquity keyboard layout issue from knot 3 now fixed?
05:18	Kamion	mdz: we need to fudge tasksel around a bit to make that not happen
05:19	mdz	Kamion: how will that bite those who upgrade; won't usplash fix that up on upgrade?
05:19	Kamion	Riddell: yes, and I rearranged the code so he could slot in use of kwin or whatever, although I don't think I've seen a patch from him yet that does that
05:19	Kamion	mdz: usplash doesn't / IMHO shouldn't change an existing usplash.conf on upgrade
05:19	Kamion	mdz: sorry, which ubiquity keyboard layout issue?
05:20	mdz	Kamion: I lit the batsignal for gtk help and jdahlin came by; he might be able to help with the other issues as well
05:20	mdz	Kamion:   * The desktop CD installer does not guess non-US keyboard layouts
05:20	mdz	    correctly.  This merely requires one to select the correct
05:20	mdz	    keyboard layout when using the desktop CD installer.
05:21	Kamion	I don't think so, but I'll check; thanks for the reminder
05:21	mdz	ok, thanks
05:21	mdz	dholbach: next
05:21	dholbach	Done
05:21	dholbach	    * finished functional version of the art-builder
05:21	dholbach	    * pilot updates into Ubuntu
05:21	dholbach	    * small fixes
05:21	dholbach	    * telepathy packaging, reviewing, mentoring - we might quite some progress: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Telepathy/Modules
05:21	dholbach	To do
05:21	dholbach	    * catch up with bug triage, or suffer from Sb of Doom
05:21	dholbach	    * human-icon-theme update (added icons)
05:21	dholbach	    * CD testing
05:21	dholbach	    * investigate in gnome-bluetooth/gnome-phone-manager/libbtctl updates
05:21	dholbach	    * revu-ing for Universe Freeze
05:21	dholbach	    * apt-get.org
05:22	mdz	dholbach: art-builder is deployed?  or not quite yet?
05:22	mvo	dholbach: I'm happy to help with the apt-get.org auto-test-build script
=== Gadi [n=romm@ool-44c7518f.dyn.optonline.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:22	dholbach	not deployed yet, will do so asap and talk with Frank about it
05:22	dholbach	mvo: thanks a lot - I just didn't get around yet to debug it
=== dholbach hugs mvo
05:23	fschoep	dholbach: looking forward to it
05:23	mdz	dholbach: is there anything in desktop-land which should be on the beta list?
05:23	mdz	besides the g-s-d bug I added already
05:23	dholbach	In my bug catchup frenzy, I'll be sure to mark bugs as beta milestones
05:24	mdz	dholbach: ok, review existing higher-severity bugs as well and see if anything should be added there
=== mvo hugs dholbach
05:24	mdz	dholbach: thanks
05:24	dholbach	mdz: alright
05:24	mdz	seb128: next
05:24	seb128	Done:
05:24	seb128	- load and load of bug triage, replied to most of new desktop bugs and took my backlog from around 370 to 240
05:24	seb128	- some desktopish updates
05:24	seb128	- some updates and fixes for gnome-java packages
05:24	seb128	- started fixing desktop bugs for edgy beta
05:24	seb128	Todo:
05:24	seb128	- keep fighting bugs flood
05:24	seb128	- fixing desktop bugs
05:24	seb128	- beta CD testing
=== cliebow_ [n=cliebow@smoothwallkludge.ellsworth-hs.ellsworth.k12.me.us] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:24	mdz	seb128: did the upstream forwarding push help with the bug flood at all?
05:25	seb128	what upstream forwarding push?
05:25	seb128	we do forward them all the time ;)
05:25	mvo	lol
05:25	seb128	there was no push though
05:25	mdz	seb128: we had a bug day where the theme was to get folks to help with upstream forwarding
05:25	seb128	yeah, and I didn't notice a real difference compared to any other day to be honest
05:25	dholbach	that was 2 weeks ago or something
05:26	mdz	yes, and the idea was that more people would then know how to forward bugs and would keep doing it :-)
05:26	seb128	dholbach and I and some usual triager did put some extra efforts
05:26	seb128	but not of new people or other guys did participate
05:26	seb128	yeah
05:26	mdz	sfllaw: is there info on the appropriate wiki pages with links to the needs-to-be-forwarded list?
05:26	seb128	we would need somebody pushing for that
05:26	dholbach	it's on http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Bugs and I mailed that link to some mailing lists including ubuntu-bugsquad@
05:27	sfllaw	mdz: I'm writing documentation now on the new Bugs/HowToTriage page.
05:27	seb128	nobody is spending time on the mater atm
05:27	mdz	sfllaw: after the meeting please, but thanks ;-)
05:27	mdz	seb128: it is a priority for sfllaw
05:27	seb128	I'm happy to read that
05:27	seb128	:)
05:27	mdz	ok
=== sfllaw hugs seb128.
05:27	mdz	thanks seb128
05:27	mdz	tkamppeter: next
05:28	mdz	tkamppeter: did you talk with pitti about the meeting format?
=== seb128 hugs sfllaw
05:28	pitti	no
05:28	tkamppeter	This is the first meeting in which I participate, as I have started at Ubuntu in the beginning of this month.
05:28	tkamppeter	Done:
05:29	tkamppeter	- Installed Edgy as dual-boot with on my laptop and reported first bug
05:29	ogra	tkamppeter, which we all appreciate ;)
05:29	fabbione	only one?
05:29	fabbione	that sounds cool ;)
05:29	imbrandon	;)
05:30	Kamion	(we normally write up our done/todo items in advance so that we can just paste them; it saves time)
05:30	tkamppeter	- Looked throught the printing-related bugs (subscribed to ubuntu-printing-team)
=== cmvo [n=cmvo@62.225.11.174] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:30	tkamppeter	- Answered to many bugs to get info from the posters
=== keescook [n=kees@mylar.outflux.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:30	pitti	we did some packaging tutoring ping-pong, worked pretty well for the merges
05:31	tkamppeter	fabbione, I have found another one today
05:31	pitti	tkamppeter: bug traige -> #ubuntu-devel, please
05:31	tkamppeter	- Done my first Debian/Ubuntu package: Gutenprint 5.0.0 final, thanks to pitti to introduce me into the methods of Ubuntu packaging!!
05:32	pitti	you're welcome, glad to see a printing guru stirring up edgy ;)
05:32	Riddell	tkamppeter: apparantly there's some issues with KDE printing, which will be a post-beta priority, any help appreciated
=== phanatic [n=phanatic@ubuntu/member/phanatic] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:32	tkamppeter	pitti, what do you mean with "bug traige -> #ubuntu-devel, please"?
05:33	pitti	tkamppeter: I thought you wanted to talk about bugs, that's #u-devel stuff; sorry, that wasn't the case apparently
05:33	tkamppeter	Riddell, subscribe bugs to the printing team,
05:33	Riddell	tkamppeter: will do
05:33	tkamppeter	and one KDE/CUPS 1.2 issue is well-known.
05:34	tkamppeter	Riddell, I will tell you about this issue later.
05:34	ogra	tkamppeter, i plan some improvements for ltsp printing in edgy+1 and would like to talk with you about it in mountain view ... (just as notification)
05:34	mdz	tkamppeter: the text is prepared in advance to save time because the meeting is large.  if you could email me after the meeting and prepare next time, that is fine
05:34	mdz	instead we will just welcome you this time :-)
05:34	mdz	tkamppeter, for those who have not noticed, is helping us with printing support in Ubuntu
05:34	mdz	tkamppeter: so welcome :-)
05:34	mdz	sfllaw: next
05:35	mdz	sfllaw: ping?
05:35	sfllaw	Done:
05:35	sfllaw	* Writing Wiki documentation
05:35	sfllaw	* Bug triage
05:35	sfllaw	To do:
05:35	sfllaw	* Bug triage
=== pitti hugs tkamppeter
05:35	sfllaw	* Writing Wiki documentation
05:35	sfllaw	* Hug day
05:35	sfllaw	* Buy a new laptop (the old one died)
05:35	mdz	tkamppeter: please collect your text and send it to me via email, we have moved on
05:35	mdz	sfllaw must be having connectivity issues
05:35	mdz	Riddell: next
05:35	sfllaw	Hullo?
05:35	sfllaw	Can you hear me?
05:35	ogra	heh
05:35	nixternal	haha
05:35	mdz	Riddell: your update please
05:35	ogra	sfllaw, no
05:35	Riddell	I can see sfllaw
05:35	Kamion	mdz: I can see sfllaw speaking
05:35	sfllaw	It must be a NetSplit.
05:35	mdz	sfllaw: * Ping reply from sfllaw: 162.49 second(s) :-)
05:35	fabbione	mdz: so can i
05:35	tkamppeter	- Checked through the actual versions of Ubuntu packages and the bugs, a lot is too old, therefore asked for UVF ERs on: foomatic-filters, foomatic-db, foomatic-hpijs, HPLIP, Gutenprint, foo2zjs
05:35	kwwii	as can I
05:35	Mithrandir	I guess it's mdz having problems with his net. :-P
05:36	mdz	what a mess
05:36	tkamppeter	- (All but foo2zjs already approved)
05:36	BenC	lol, for once I'm not the one with the major lag :)
=== fabbione ^5 BenC
05:36	mdz	it seems like lag between the server I'm connected to (and some others) and everyone else
05:37	mdz	am I caught up now?
05:37	fabbione	* Ping reply from mdz: ? second(s)
05:37	Keybuk	* Ping reply from mdz: 0.35 second(s)
05:37	seb128	--- Ping reply from mdz : 0.98 second(s)
05:37	Kamion	16:37 [Freenode]  CTCP PING reply from mdz: 0.480 seconds
05:37	shenki	mdz: yes, you're caught up now
05:37	mdz	ok
05:37	mdz	sfllaw: anything on the broader bug radar which should be raised for the beta?
05:38	mdz	sfllaw: which wiki documentation did you write in the past week?
05:38	sfllaw	Mmm.  Not really.  There are really only minor issues.
05:38	sfllaw	I'm refactoring the BugSquad pages, so that it's easier to find info on getting involved.
05:38	sfllaw	Documenting our processes and such.
=== wiz [n=wiz@83.222.194.31] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
=== pitti took the freedom to augment the worse bugs from Testing/Current with a beta milestone flag
05:39	sfllaw	This should make it faster for new BugSquad volunteers to get up to speed, and also make it easier for people to join Ubuntu QA.
05:40	mdz	sfllaw: ok, especially in the time leading up to beta, we need your eyes to pick out any serious issues we need to be aware of for the beta
05:40	mdz	sfllaw: so make sure you are keeping up with bug triage during this critical time
05:40	sfllaw	Right.
05:40	sfllaw	When are we getting those version fields in Malone?
05:40	sfllaw	;)
=== mvo will investigate two "does not book up at all" regressions tomorrow from friends
05:40	Keybuk	sfllaw: edgy+7
05:40	mdz	sfllaw: LP1.0 + N
05:40	sfllaw	:(
05:41	mdz	sfllaw: we must work with what we have today
05:41	sfllaw	Fair enough.
05:41	seb128	mvo: what book? ;)
05:41	mdz	sfllaw: thanks
05:41	mdz	Riddell: next
=== mvo slaps seb128
05:41	Riddell	done: lots of bugfixing
05:41	Riddell	      kde ubiquity scrollview
05:41	Riddell	      fix various issues with .pot generation for rosetta
05:41	Riddell	      discussion with jono
05:41	Riddell	blocked: ruby on ppc, can recreate failure on davis but probably needs someone more familiar with it to fix
05:41	Riddell	todo: investigate Usplash art missing in Kubuntu and test dapper->edgy upgrade generally
05:41	Riddell	      package kubuntu-docs
05:41	Riddell	      KDE conference from friday evening to tuesday.
05:41	Riddell	      Beta release
05:41	Riddell	note: kde 3.5.5 and koffice 1.6 both scheduled for early october
05:41	Kamion	missing usplash> isn't that just misconfigured resolution, as above?
05:41	mdz	Riddell: how did kubuntu knot 3 turn out?  any bugs which should go on the beta list?
05:41	Kamion	or is it something more complex?
05:42	mdz	Riddell: someone more familiar with ruby, or with ppc?
05:42	Riddell	mdz: pretty well, main problems all fixed
05:42	pitti	shall we consider amd64/nvidia usplash failure as a high-importancy bug which deserves rollback to vga on amd64?
=== jammcq_laptop [n=jam@70.91.230.209] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:42	Riddell	mdz: usplash seems to work on new installs, but there's that bug for dapper upgrades I need to look at
05:43	mdz	pitti: I thought mjg59 said that was fixed
05:43	Riddell	mdz: both?
05:43	mdz	Riddell: martin pool admitted to knowing ruby; you know who the ppc fetishists are in the house
05:43	pitti	mdz: not fully as it seems, today I heard several more confirmations in IRC, and it's still happening for a friend of mine and me (i. e. all amd64/nvidia guys I know)
05:43	mdz	Riddell: have you asked one of them for help?
05:44	Riddell	mdz: not recently, I can poke them again
=== spamhog [n=Miranda@xd-85-20-126-238.mi2.albacom.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:44	Kamion	rolling back to VGA will be pretty hard, requires complicated theme changes too
05:44	Kamion	I think we're quite deeply committed
05:44	mdz	who will help Riddell with this issue?  it's been blocking for weeks now
05:44	pitti	humm
=== raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:44	mdz	Kamion: mjg59 gave the impression it could fall back gracefully
05:45	Kamion	mdz: not until somebody teaches usplash to build in both bogl and svga backends into a single binary
05:45	BenC	if there's any ppc usplash help needed, I volunteer
05:45	mvo	pitti: I have a amd64/nvidia test-machine, happy to give it a go
05:45	mdz	Kamion: gah...I thought bogl talked to svgalib
05:45	Kamion	unless svgalib can do vga too
05:45	Kamion	mdz: no, separate backend
05:45	Kamion	s
05:45	Mithrandir	Kamion: that should be doable, shouldn't it?
05:45	Kamion	at the moment they share function names - There Can Be Only One
05:45	Kamion	Mithrandir: doable, sure, but not done
=== BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:45	mdz	Kamion: garrrr
05:46	Mithrandir	if it's a blocker for beta, I can do it.
05:46	Kamion	we really really need the existing themes to provide 640x400 and/or 640x480 images
=== BenC has done framebuffer+svga work
05:46	BenC	feel free to bug me
05:46	Kamion	fschoep,kwwii: ^--
05:46	mdz	BenC: would you help Riddell get ruby/ppc building?
05:46	kwwii	Kamion: will do
05:46	fschoep	Sure
05:46	BenC	ruby?
05:46	Kamion	thanks
05:46	BenC	hrmm, I can try
05:46	kwwii	Kamion:  have one, but I did not include it :p
05:46	mdz	BenC: afaik usplash/ppc is happy now, but more testing is always good
05:47	mdz	BenC: yes, ruby...it's failing to build on ppc only
05:47	BenC	ok, I can do that
05:47	mdz	thank you
05:47	Kamion	kwwii: it's particularly obvious since 640x480 is the current default on all alternate CD installs
05:47	Riddell	BenC: on 64 bit kernel ppc only to be specific
05:47	mdz	Riddell: you leave for the conf after the beta release, yes?
05:47	Kamion	and we may have to fall back to 640x400 on amd64/nvidia, see above
05:47	Kamion	that would be 640x400x8 in fact
05:47	Riddell	mdz: before, I leave tomorrow evening
05:47	mdz	Riddell: sorry, you leave tomorrow and come back early next week?
05:47	BenC	Riddell: it fails to build only on 64-bit kernel, 32-bit userspace?
05:47	Riddell	mdz: yes
05:47	Kamion	or whatever the old usplash resolution was
05:47	Keybuk	Kamion: x8 or x4 ?
05:47	Riddell	BenC: yes
05:48	Kamion	x4 I guess
05:48	BenC	Riddell: should be easy, I have a G5 I can test out
05:48	mdz	Riddell: ok, make sure you review your bug list tomorrow and add any beta blockers to the list
05:48	Riddell	mdz: ok
05:48	mdz	Riddell: if there isn't a bug filed for this ruby issue, file one and mark it for the beta
05:48	Mithrandir	Riddell,BenC: can you take the ruby/ppc discussion later/in #u-d?
05:48	BenC	sure
05:48	jbailey	BenC: Poke me for other testing on G5, too.
05:49	mdz	pitti: let's discuss about usplash/nvidia/amd64 after the meeting, I'm not up to date on the issues there
05:49	mdz	Riddell: thanks
05:49	BenC	jbailey: thanks
05:49	mdz	Mithrandir: next
05:49	Mithrandir	* misc: released knot 3, fixed a bunch of casper bugs.  Working on some X bugs.
05:49	Mithrandir	* next week: preparations for beta, mainly X and casper stuff, help Henrik get online from his new home.
=== mdz watches the beta milestone page grow during the meeting...;-)
05:50	Mithrandir	(Henrik called me a few hours ago and needed a bit of help to get his DSL running so I'll bike out there tomorrow)
05:50	mdz	Mithrandir: how close do you think knot 3 was to beta quality?
05:50	mdz	Mithrandir: is the other known issue (mono and launchpad-integration?) fixed?
05:51	Mithrandir	mdz: not fixed, but I think I have a fix.
05:51	Mithrandir	mdz: beta quality> getting there, but not there.
05:51	ogra	for edubuntu it was far from beta quality ... tomorrows iso should be though
05:51	mdz	is openoffice installable yet?
05:51	Mithrandir	too many small things all over the place which need small adjustments.
05:51	Mithrandir	I don't think so.
05:51	Keybuk	has it even built yet?
05:51	ogra	there was an upload ...
05:51	mdz	Keybuk: it built, but was rejected
05:52	Keybuk	mdz: several built
05:52	mdz	there's an email in my inbox about it which I have only skimmed
05:52	Keybuk	and in fact, are still building
05:52	Kamion	there's another upload which should get past the binary reject it hit
05:52	Keybuk	doko nicely DoS'd the buildds by queuing multiple openoffices
05:52	Kamion	but obviously it will take some time
05:52	doko_	they are building again, yes Keybuk, I know, but I don't have private buildd's
05:52	mdz	oo.o+oo.o-l10n is unavoidable
05:53	ogra	more buildd power !
05:53	Keybuk	doko_: <g>
05:53	mdz	and those builds are needed to unblock CD production
05:53	Keybuk	throw more kittens onto the fire!
05:53	ogra	or dedicated ooo buildds :)
05:53	Kamion	cprov volunteered another i386 buildd from the dogfood farm
=== mdz shovels more coal into the buildds
05:53	dholbach	give doko bigger machines - he has enough space at home ;)
05:53	mdz	Mithrandir: do you have a list of those small things all over the place?
05:53	Kamion	if that's desirable, somebody who can say yes please should talk to him :)
05:53	doko_	just a multi cpu machine or two would help for the i386 buildd's
05:54	Mithrandir	mdz: no, sorry, it was more of a general feeling.
05:54	mdz	Mithrandir: it's probably about time to create a wiki page for the beta with a link to the ubuntu-6.10-milestone page + all the bits and bobs which don't deserve full bug reports
05:54	Mithrandir	mdz: I'll look into that.
05:54	mdz	Mithrandir: ok, thanks
05:54	mdz	Mithrandir: oh, are the stacked livefs builds all happy now?
05:54	seb128	mdz: what sort of bugs should be listed for beta
05:55	mdz	seb128: bugs which would make the beta suck ;-)
05:55	Mithrandir	mdz: I don't think so, I haven't seen any stacks at least.  Need to poke infinity about that.
05:55	mdz	Mithrandir: aarrgghh
05:55	seb128	mdz: bugs like "gnome-vfs2 lists fstab devices twice because it doesn't understand the UUID= change" a beta candidate by example?
05:55	seb128	I listed them for edgy atm
05:56	mdz	Mithrandir: thanks
05:56	mdz	ogra: next
05:56	ogra	* last-week:
05:56	ogra	- knot3 testing (as good as i could before takeoff)
05:56	ogra	- detriot ltsp hackfest:
05:56	ogra	   things fixed there:
05:56	ogra	     - xdmcp handling
05:56	ogra	     - printer handling
05:56	ogra	     - etherboot support out of the box (thanks jammcq)
05:56	ogra	     - network swap support
05:56	ogra	     - rdesktop handling (not in edgy, but we have a fix for edgy+1 to fully support that (thanks Gadi))
05:56	mdz	seb128: if it's very noticeable, yes
05:56	ogra	     - floppy handling and localdev improvenemts (thanks sbalneav)
05:56	ogra	     - X bugs with via driver
05:56	seb128	mdz: ok
05:56	ogra	     - upstream packaging training ... ltspfs upstream is maintained completely in LP now,
05:56	ogra	       ubuntu packaging is done in a separate branch by upstream as well
05:56	ogra	       (https://launchpad.net/people/sbalneav/+branch/ltspfs/ltspfs-upstream)
05:57	ogra	     - ltsp minimal ram requirements are 32MB now for thin clients, that gives many users that were
05:57	ogra	       holding back the opportunity to switch to our implementation ! :)
05:57	mdz	seb128: just set importance appropriately; we'll focus on the most important bugs
05:57	ogra	     - we worked out an upstream roadmap for further ltsp development see http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/ltsp_roadmap.txt
05:57	ogra	--
05:57	ogra	- ltsp-convergence: all prerequisites fulfilled now, merge of ltsp.org started
05:57	ogra	- fixed edubuntu-artwork
05:57	ogra	- fixed remaining known ltsp bugs
05:57	ogra	- fixed a nasty esd regression in ltsp that prevented the second user from having sound on thin clients
05:57	ogra	- ltsp-daily-image-tarballs - still need meeting with infinity ... starts to become urgent, will try to catch him asap if he returns
05:57	ogra	* next-week:
05:57	ogra	- find remaining bugs in ltsp
05:57	mdz	ogra: the ltsp hackfest seemed both extremely productive and extremely entertaining
05:57	ogra	- prepare the isos for beta release
05:57	ogra	- known edubuntu RC bugs that need fixage so far:
05:57	ogra	   - bug 61688
05:57	Ubugtu	Malone bug 61688 in lsb "[Edgy]  "unbound variable" in /etc/lsb-base-logging.sh" [Untriaged,Unconfirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/61688
05:57	ogra	     - apparently the portmap postinst is doing an rpcinfo -p in the postinst that takes ages to complete.
05:57	ogra	       since thats only used to echo the portmap driven services in an info message to the cli
05:57	ogra	       i think we can just drop that line completely from our package
05:57	ogra	   - bug 61681
05:57	Ubugtu	Malone bug 61681 in ubuntu-cdimage "the preseed option for static devices in netcfg for edubuntu can go" [Untriaged,Unconfirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/61681
05:57	ogra	     - postinst change for edubuntu d-i, we dont need to default to a static IP for the first interface anymore (one line fix)
05:57	ogra	mdz, oh, i forgot the initramfs issue you mailed me about ... need to fix that as well ...
05:57	ogra	yeah, it was
05:57	ogra	upps
05:58	mdz	ogra: what changes were made to get down to 32M?
05:58	ogra	that was bug 61668
05:58	Ubugtu	Malone bug 61668 in portmap "Building LTSP chroot stops during portmap installation" [Untriaged,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/61668
05:58	ogra	mdz, automatic nbd swap
05:58	ogra	even its not our desired fully-automatic-swapserver it is fine for a start
05:58	Kamion	ogra: yeah, I'll hoover up that ubuntu-cdimage bug in my general pass, it's easy
05:58	mdz	ogra: congratulations on the milestone of ltsp-convergence, that's a great achievement for ubuntu
05:58	ogra	(thats why the spec is set to deferred, vagrantc and me will care fir it in edgy+1)
05:59	ogra	yeah
05:59	ogra	redhat is the first adopter
05:59	ogra	and warren even agreed to maintain everything in launchpad *g*
05:59	mdz	looking forward to the writeup on that
06:00	ogra	right, i wanted to do it yesterday, but somehow had no opportunity to sleep at all, to many bugs to fix before the freeze
06:00	fabbione	ogra: don't be so surprised.. there are more RH developers using ubuntu and lp that you can think of
06:00	mdz	ogra: 61688 doesn't have its milestone set; please set it if you consider it a blocker
06:00	mdz	and Importance as well
06:00	ogra	ok
06:00	Kamion	I'll look at 61688 straight after the meeting
06:00	mdz	ogra: thanks
06:00	ogra	jammcq_laptop and sbalneav started switching to ubuntu ltsp everywhere btw
06:00	mdz	fschoep: next
06:00	fschoep	Done:
06:00	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-polish-human-icons: contact Dave, now waiting for initial batch of icons
06:00	fschoep	* firefox-themes-ubuntu: fix bugs (consider switching to Epiphany)
06:00	fschoep	* looked into some other bugs
06:00	fschoep	Ongoing:
06:00	fschoep	* usplash-artwork: work with Seveas and msikma to get a new design in
06:00	fschoep	* community-artwork: conference call with jmak and sabdfl tomorrow
06:01	fschoep	* art-polish-human-gtk-theme: decide on color tweaks based on artwork direction
06:01	fschoep	* sound-themes: got in touch with cbx33, will work on shortening sounds
06:01	fschoep	* theme-teams: (try to) package their work
06:01	mdz	fschoep: switching to epiphany -> that is so not funny :-)
06:01	fschoep	mdz: no comment :)
06:01	Keybuk	mdz: it'd solve potential trademark issues
06:01	Riddell	fschoep: the text on the current ubuntu wallpaper needs moved up, it's covered by the panel
06:01	ogra	fabbione, but not RH employees that use it for distro work (yet at least)
06:02	fschoep	Riddell: thanks for spotting it
06:02	dholbach	xulrunner+epiphany! yay! :)
06:02	fabbione	ogra: yup.. those too :)
06:02	ogra	oi
06:02	fschoep	Riddell: I am trying to get it right ;)
06:02	fschoep	But this does bring up an important issue
06:02	ogra	dholbach++
06:02	mdz	fschoep: sounds like there is s till a lot of artwork churn.  is there anything absolutely urgent which might justify an exception for the beta freeze?
06:03	fschoep	mdz: yes, everything I think (not the right answer?)
06:03	fschoep	mdz: I'm on the phone with Mark tomorrow
06:03	mdz	fschoep: no, not the right answer
06:03	fschoep	mdz: We'll pretty much have to rip out what's in there currently and create new stuff
06:03	dholbach	mdz: I'll upload a human icon theme soon-ish (some added icons)
06:03	mdz	fschoep: if the artwork isn't final, we'll deal with that, but we can't have it changing as we're preparing the release
=== Keybuk blinks at fschoep
06:04	mdz	fschoep: please send me an email after the call with the outcome
06:04	fschoep	mdz: We (I) tried the community approach and it kind of blew up in my face
06:04	mdz	fschoep: actually, scratch that.  send me the info for the call and I'll dial in
06:04	fschoep	mdz: OK, I'll try to get that arranged with Claire
06:04	mdz	fschoep: thanks
06:04	mdz	and argh
06:04	mdz	kwwii: next
06:04	kwwii	Done:
06:04	kwwii	made different usplash aniimation ideas...in the end decided this is something for the future
06:04	mdz	kwwii: I hope you have good news ;-)
06:04	fschoep	Keybuk: morituri te salutant ;)
06:04	kwwii	Made new window deco buttons, gradient for window deco, wallpaper, amarok theme, metabar theme, color tweaking in kde and the window deco, new panel background.
06:04	kwwii	new themeing elements in place. All in all we are very close to final
06:05	kwwii	Todo:
06:05	kwwii	akademy next week
06:05	kwwii	finish usplash (reduce the size/form of the logo, tweak progress bar graphics) 640x480!!
06:05	kwwii	about, app start, help page?
06:05	kwwii	throbber for konqueror?
06:05	kwwii	keep polishing where and when necessary
06:05	mdz	kwwii: any final touches for beta should go in tomorrow; it's likely that we'll be locking down uploads early next week
06:05	ogra	whats metabar ?
06:05	kwwii	mdz: we have accomplished everything we set out to do and are outdoing ourselves
06:05	kwwii	mdz: cool, I will make sure to get an updated upslash in
06:06	kwwii	ogra: it is shown in the sidebar in konqueror, kinda like MS
06:06	mdz	kwwii: thanks
06:06	mdz	doko_: next
06:06	doko_	status:
06:06	doko_	- edgy-toolchain: implemented
06:06	doko_	- edgy-toolchain+1: no status change, opening of edgy+1 needed,
06:06	doko_	   test rebuilds of the archive needed.
06:06	doko_	   planning a coordinated glibc-2.5 / binutils update for not later
06:06	doko_	   than Oct 6.
06:06	doko_	- python-roadmap: need to go over the list of application packages
06:06	doko_	   in main, mostly bug fixes / missed syncs
06:06	doko_	- python2.5: final uploaded, extension packages are built for
06:06	doko_	   2.4 and 2.5, 2.5 will not be the default python in edgy.
06:06	doko_	- java-roadmap: classpath-0.92 based gcj in the archive,
06:06	doko_	   packages providing jni bindings built natively, built
06:06	doko_	   the core java packages as native (-gcj) packages.
06:06	doko_	   gcj-4.2 should be removed for edgy (although we should keep it
06:06	doko_	   for test builds for edgy-toolchain+1 until before the release.
06:06	doko_	- openoffice.org-l10n: delayed
06:06	doko_	this week:
06:07	doko_	- scan OOo bugs for printing related bug reports, discuss some
06:07	mdz	doko_: what's the latest from infinity/soyuz regarding test rebuilds?
06:07	doko_	   printing issues with tkamppeter, start OOo bug triage
06:07	doko_	- prepare and upload OOo 2.0.4, the usual build failures; binary
06:07	doko_	   packages will hit the archive not before tomorrow.
06:07	doko_	- check and upload printing packages
06:07	doko_	- python2.5 final upload
06:07	doko_	- some more gcc/gcj fixes.
06:07	doko_	- other: fix python-defaults breakage, finally got tired of xfs fs
06:07	doko_	   corruptions on my notebook, reinstalled edgy, recoverd my email setup.
06:07	doko_	- started SoC summary
06:07	doko_	next week:
06:07	doko_	- continue OOo bug triage
06:07	Kamion	doko_: openoffice.org-l10n> "delayed" = "deferred"? or post-beta?
06:07	doko_	- OOo bug triage, focusing on python reports
06:07	doko_	mdz: no news
06:07	doko_	Kamion: deferred
06:07	Kamion	ok
06:07	fabbione	doko_: if you can give the packages i can do sparc toolchain easily
06:07	doko_	fabbione: ok, will do.
06:07	mdz	doko_: ok, I'll make an inquiry
06:08	doko_	mdz: I'll have to coordinate with jbailey, so the time line is not yet final
06:08	mdz	doko_: LP guys are forming a plan regarding opening edgy+1, I"ll talk more with kiko
=== diego [n=diego@168.7.253.150] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:10	doko_	Kamion, Keybuk: will outstanding syncs be processed a last time tomorrow before the beta freeze?
06:10	mdz	I haven't read the emails about the oo.o rejects yet, but I will read and reply properly; discuss out of bnad
06:10	mdz	band
06:10	mdz	doko_: python2.5 final tomorrow, otherwise should probably wait until after beta
06:10	doko_	mdz: is already in
06:10	Kamion	doko_: well, the beta freeze has already started
06:11	Keybuk	doko_: I did a sync run earlier, were there new ones you've added?
06:11	mdz	doko_: oh? I thought the last one I saw was an rc
06:11	tkamppeter	mdz, doko_, will Python be switched to 2.5 in Edgy? I hope this does not break HPLIP.
06:11	Kamion	doko_: but in any event I'm still waiting for the descriptions of the Ubuntu changes you're overriding for those ada and zope syncs
06:11	mdz	but there it is
06:11	Kamion	we need those in the bug, please
06:11	pitti	tkamppeter: no, it won't
06:11	pitti	tkamppeter: it's available, but not the default
06:11	mdz	tkamppeter: no, default is still 2.4
06:11	doko_	Kamion: ajmitch did this for the zope packages, yes, I ahve to do that for ada
06:12	Kamion	yes, please do
06:12	Kamion	I can do the zope syncs if mdz's ok with that
06:12	Kamion	(https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/59001)
06:12	Ubugtu	Malone bug 59001 in Ubuntu "sync zope packages" [Untriaged,Needs info]  
06:12	mdz	Kamion: I am
06:12	Kamion	ok
06:12	mdz	doko_: ok, thanks
06:12	doko_	then we can drop python2.3 ... even if it's universe
06:12	mdz	fabbione: next
06:12	mdz	doko_: yay
06:12	fabbione	Done
06:12	fabbione	* ubuntu-edgy-cluster: more bug fixing. Pending one bug in userland. GFS2 marke
06:12	fabbione	d as experimental. Not stable enough for production.
06:12	fabbione	* pkgsum.u.c: no progress
06:12	fabbione	* edgy-sparc: lots of bug fixing here to get to install and run properly. Left: silo on niagara isn't very happy and a corner case where initramfs is loaded underneath the kernel. One kernel SMP bug on Niagara discovered. ETA for fixes: sometimes during next week.
06:12	fabbione	* a lot of other bug fixing (mdadm in particular since it had a few regressions from dapper)
06:12	fabbione	To do
06:12	fabbione	* sparc bug fixing.
06:12	fabbione	* Bug fixing in general.
06:12	fabbione	* fire up sparc edgy rebuild of death.
06:13	fabbione	Note:
06:13	fabbione	* been offline most of the day. PSU on ws is dead (replacement by tomorrow) and
06:13	fabbione	got laptop fixed only a few minutes ago.
06:13	fabbione	(few minutes before the meeting.. now.. it's one hour ago :)
06:14	mdz	fabbione: please get the sparc bugs filed  and set the beta milestone so they're tracked
06:14	fabbione	mdz: ok.
06:15	mdz	fabbione: there was no sparc knot-3, right?
06:15	fabbione	mdz: no because i come back that week and not enough time to go trough all the backlog
06:15	fabbione	but we will have beta
06:15	mdz	fabbione: are there dailies?
06:16	fabbione	mdz: yes.
06:16	fabbione	and i test from netinstall
06:16	fabbione	so basically on the immediate archve snapshot
06:16	fabbione	archive even
06:16	mdz	have the dailies been tested?
06:16	mdz	the ISOs I mean
06:16	fabbione	not from me
06:16	mdz	please do test them before monday
06:16	fabbione	will do
06:17	mdz	fabbione: thanks
06:17	mdz	Keybuk: next
06:17	Keybuk	Done:
06:17	Keybuk	* TearDown: examined every package in main and changed some to not stop on shutdown or reboot
06:17	Keybuk	* Readahead improvements
06:17	Keybuk	* BootMessageLogging improvements, fsck output now displayed on console and removing "quiet" will do the right thing
06:17	Keybuk	* Usplash and splash down neatening
06:17	Keybuk	To do:
06:17	Keybuk	* No outstanding bug fixes for beta
06:17	Keybuk	* I don't yet have any release-critical bugs which have sufficient information to debug; but I'm sure I'll get some after beta :)
06:17	Keybuk	* Hunt for other bugs I can fix
06:17	mdz	Keybuk: prereadahead doesn't take as long as I thought it would
06:17	Keybuk	prereadahead ?
06:17	mdz	Keybuk: reading in the foreground
06:18	Keybuk	right, it actually takes less time than reading in the background
06:18	Keybuk	as then you aren't reading files twice
06:18	Keybuk	and aren't thrashing the disk while trying to do other stuff
06:18	mdz	it shouldn't read files twice if the list is sorted properly
06:18	Keybuk	yeah, it would in the background
06:18	mdz	but I think this way is more predictable anyway
06:18	Keybuk	cause it'd start reading the list, while other stuff started
06:18	Keybuk	which was further down the list, because the blocks were near the end of the filesystem
06:19	mdz	Keybuk: if reading in the background, the list should be sorted by order of access
06:19	Keybuk	then the disk head skips everywhere, which .... defeats the object
06:19	mdz	but I guess it wasn't
06:19	Keybuk	there's definite winnage from having the list read in disk position order
06:19	mdz	Keybuk: is upstart single-user pretty happy now?
06:19	Keybuk	seems to be
06:20	Keybuk	it should behave as sysvinit now, both for "exit" and "shutdown"
06:20	mdz	excellent
06:20	mdz	Keybuk: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-6.10-beta is a good starting point if looking for bugs to fix
06:20	mdz	s/if/when/
06:20	Keybuk	yes, I've seen it
=== raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:21	mdz	Keybuk: ;-) thanks
06:21	mdz	BenC: next
06:21	BenC	* linux-kernel-crash-dump: Will end up disabling kdump on ppc64 and amd64, where it doesn't seem to work. kexec scripts to handle dumping to shell to get useful info will be uploaded with next kexec tools (non-invasive changes to normal kernel operation).
06:21	BenC	* Last week (kernel): Bug crack down time. Spent 12-16 hours per day going through bug reports. Will be doing this the remainder of the release.
06:21	BenC	* Next week (kernel): Nailing down critical bugs. Promoting bugs that need to be fixed before Edgy is released.
06:21	BenC	* Current Major efforts:
06:21	BenC	  - Merging of Mactel patches.
06:21	BenC	  - AGP/DRM update (already done, clean merge, uploading with today's kernel).
06:21	BenC	  - Core 2 Duo backports from 2.6.18 (mainly to do with JMicron controllers). This should be complete now. Dozens of people can't boot Ubuntu on Core 2 Duo because of this. I'm ordering a Core 2 Duo laptop in the next couple of days, so I'll be able to do install testing on this platform.
06:21	BenC	  - PPC64 fixes for sata_svw crash. Fixed now.
06:21	BenC	  - Still working on making sure the crashes related to apport are tested and fixed. Current kernel (upload today) has fixes that should handle one type of crash, and maybe the other. Major concern is that these crashes are obviously security concerns. The fixes need to be tested very throroughly, else apport may be in jeopardy for Edgy release.
06:22	mdz	I had a pretty hairy kernel day on my desktop yesterday while I was trying to get vmware working. hit the crash handler bug several times, and also some other crashes I wasn't able to capture information for
06:22	mdz	it's been stable since then, but I'm uneasy
06:22	fabbione	BenC: don't forget silo love for next week please :)
06:22	BenC	mdz: Did you get the kernel I built for you yesterday?
06:22	pitti	BenC: I'll give it some hard testing here
06:22	BenC	has the fix I implemented
06:22	mdz	BenC: I downloaded it but didn't have time to test yet
06:22	BenC	fabbione: Ah yes, good ole silo
06:23	mdz	it's on my laptop
=== Broken_Arrow [n=Julien@AToulon-152-1-80-228.w83-201.abo.wanadoo.fr] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Quitte]
06:23	BenC	mdz: apport related bugs are my #1 prio right now, I promoted one to ubuntu-6.10-beta
06:24	mdz	BenC: ok, thanks
06:24	mdz	zul: next
06:24	zul	Done
06:24	zul	    * Xen0 and XenU kernels for x86.
06:24	zul	    * Ported xen to dapper
06:24	zul	    * bug fixing
06:24	zul	To do
06:25	zul	    * Porting Xen to 2.6.17 before universe freeze.
06:25	zul	    * Xen0 and XenU kernels for amd64
06:25	zul	    * bug fixing
06:25	mdz	zul: anything for the beta hit list?
06:25	zul	nope not for me
06:25	BenC	mdz: Chuck's trying to get the xen package to build by build-dep'ing on linux-source-2.6.17 and patching it from there, which I think we be better for security updates
06:26	BenC	s/we/will/
06:26	mdz	that'd be handy, yes, if it's now updated fo r2.6.17
06:26	mdz	zul: ok, thankss
06:26	mdz	iwj: next
06:26	BenC	zul: Let me know if you need any help with that too
06:26	iwj	package-dependency-field-breaks: All complete except for the critical changes to update-manager, which I'm starting to get worried about.  See also mvo's report.
06:26	iwj	automated-testing-deployment: No significant change since last report.
06:26	zul	BenC: sure the patch is just a bit hairy
06:26	iwj	this week so far: Have spent it all wrestling trying to get firefox 1.5 into breezy as a security update.  Main difficulty was an obscure string handling bug now reported upstream, for which I have a hideous workaround.  Have had some conversations with timeless from the upstream community about this too but unfortunately not with any better outcome for us (so far).
06:26	iwj	todo: make firefox ship xpidl again (in -dev)
06:26	iwj	todo: anything but firefox! aaargh! etc.
06:27	iwj	Since I wrote that timeless has provided quite a bit more useful help and I think I can actually cross-port the real fix for 1.5.
06:27	iwj	pitti: So if you would reject that firefox upload from earlier ...
06:27	pitti	iwj: I can't; just upload another one with a higher version
06:27	iwj	OK.
06:28	mdz	iwj: timeless...he was making noise on the security group list this week about patches not being sent upstream; I looked over the changelog and it seems almost entirely ubuntu-specific. did he talk with you directly?
06:28	pitti	iwj: I'll do the locale package upgrading for breezy; it's a bit hairy and now I know how to do it
06:28	iwj	No.  I've been talking to him on IRC today and he didn't mention it.
06:28	iwj	pitti: OK.
06:28	mdz	iwj: anything but firefox -> interview prospective firefox gurus ;-)
06:29	iwj	mdz: Quite :-).
=== pitti wonders whether asac would be interested
06:29	mdz	pitti: I don't know who asac is, but we welcome all qualified applicants
06:29	iwj	mdz: I'll do that just as soon as I don't mind losing all the state in my head about these fourteen different ff trees I'm hacking.
06:29	iwj	mdz: Alexander Sack.
06:29	pitti	mdz: Alexander Sack, Debian's tbird maintainer and the guy who did the last round of backporting; he does know the code pretty well
06:30	iwj	We should probably invite him to throw his hat in if he's interested.
06:30	mdz	pitti: if you have a dialog with him, feel free to contact him
06:30	pitti	then again, he's aware of the job offer and didn't ask me so far
06:30	pitti	yes, I'm talking to him quite often, but he didn't express interest so far; will ask him more directly, I guess :)
06:30	Kamion	sometimes it does no harm to invite people explicitly
06:30	iwj	pitti: Yes, do.
06:30	mdz	pitti: perhaps a subtle hint ;-)
06:31	Kamion	the best people often underestimate their own abilities
06:31	mdz	Kamion: unless they're known to believe that we eat children
06:31	pitti	'We're screwed, fix Ubuntu, kthxbye'
06:31	mdz	Kamion: agreed regarding underestimation though
06:31	mdz	that goes for all the job postings currently up
06:31	iwj	Dammit, we eat children ?  Where's my share ?
06:31	mdz	tell your friends
06:32	mdz	we are looking for the best
=== diego [n=diego@168.7.253.150] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
06:32	mdz	I think that's all for today
06:32	mdz	any other brief business?
06:32	Riddell	no kees?
06:32	mdz	Riddell: I believe he starts next week
06:32	Riddell	ok
=== ranf [n=ralfm@dslb-084-058-169-064.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:32	Kamion	he joined earlier and I think he's been watching
06:32	Kamion	(hi!)
06:32	pitti	Riddell: next Wednesday
06:33	pitti	yeah, I invited him to see the general format
06:33	mdz	ok, great
06:33	mdz	thanks, everyone
06:33	mdz	adjourned
</pre>
