{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=08&day=12&year=2013&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Aug 12th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Colin Watson (cjwatson) provided debdiffs for precise-raring for putty. Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
** openstack updates
** test upstart-app-launch
** patch piloting
** sync up audits with sarnold
** xdg user dir support in apparmor
** various follow-ups on application confinement discussions
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: community
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** catch up from time off
** !AppArmor
*** click-apparmor
*** catch up on work items
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** preparing debdiffs against apparmor and dbus for AppArmor D-Bus mediation
*** content hub
*** fd passing tests 
** jjohansen
** finish fixing a bug in the replacedby logic that is causing crashes when we enable compound labels
** look into the 3.11 flink/linkat changes and how it affects us (it will, but the extent is not yet known)
** push the kernel patch for the label query that dbus needs
** deal with bug 1202161
** IPC work items
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** MIR audits
** pending updates
** patch review
** chrisccoulson
** mozilla updates are out
** support for multiple browser contexts is in oxide now
** working on the user script support
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** sarnold pointed out that the community supported drupal7 packages could use some attention on earlier releases (particularly 12.04). See http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/drupal7.html for details.

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-08-12-16.58.html
