{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting (jib)
* Alpha3 progress review (ttx)
** Make sure status is updated on each of your blueprint whiteboards EOD on Tuesdays !
** Prio 1 specs < 70% completed: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-uec-testing|uec-testing]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-mysql-5.0|mysql-5.0]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-seeds|seeds]]</nowiki>
** Prio 2 specs < 50% completed: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-daily-vcs|daily-vcs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-puppet-etckeeper-integration|puppet-etckeeper-integration]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-puppet-uec-ec2-integration|puppet-uec-ec2-integration]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-papercuts|server-lucid-papercuts]]</nowiki> (ttx)
** Nomination review -- Please have a look at https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs in advance
** Discuss n bugs in x weeks goal
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-apport-hooks|server-lucid-apport-hooks]]</nowiki> update (zul)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Agree on next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting (jib) =====
* ACTION: ttx to announce papercuts nominations
** ttx: done
* ACTION: zul to do another call to action for the apport hooks involvement
** zul: will do today
* ACTION: zul to raise php5.3 update on -server and -devel mailinglist, outline which apps are currently not working with 5.3
** zul: done

===== Alpha3 progress review (ttx) =====
* Make sure status is updated on each of your blueprint whiteboards EOD on Tuesdays !
* Prio 1 specs < 70% completed: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-uec-testing|uec-testing]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-mysql-5.0|mysql-5.0]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-seeds|seeds]]</nowiki>
** uec-testing (mathiaz)
** kirkland: testing iso's today
** mathiaz: good shape
** mysql-5.0 (zul)
** zul: upload today
** [ACTION] zul to forward issues about ctbd to jelmer to see if those can be lifted before FF
** [ACTION] zul to do another call to action for the apport hooks involvement
** Discussion on RHCS, whether to keep in main, move to universe; mailing list thread should reach a conclusion soon
** daily-vcs (zul)
** zul: been working on higher priority specs
** puppet-etckeeper-integration (mathiaz, soren)
** soren, mathiaz: should merge from debian unstable, not in danger
* Prio 2 specs < 50% completed: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-daily-vcs|daily-vcs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-puppet-etckeeper-integration|puppet-etckeeper-integration]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-puppet-uec-ec2-integration|puppet-uec-ec2-integration]]</nowiki>

===== server-lucid-papercuts (ttx) =====
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-papercuts|server-lucid-papercuts]]</nowiki>
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs
** Each bug was reviewed, voted on with -1/0/+1
** ttx updated all bugs accordingly
** for details on each bug, please see the logs below

===== server-lucid-apport-hooks update (zul) =====
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-apport-hooks|server-lucid-apport-hooks]]</nowiki>
* zul: all prior 1 are done except for openssh its pending a review with cjwatson
* ttx: As a general reminder, apport hooks are easy, and a great way of contributing your first patches/branches to Ubuntu :)

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren) =====
* smoser: new guy starts: 15th (which is a US holiday) so 16th
* soren: handed over automatic ISO testing stuff to the QA team. It'll be running in the DC soon.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====
* jjohansen: new EC2 kernel is checked in, has the latest updates, and updated configs

===== Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz) =====
* [ACTION] kirkland to propose a karmic fix for bug 503180 in PPA
** kirkland: to upload karmic eucalyptus iptables fix for SRU, PPA first, then -proposed
** done
* Launchpad bug 364581 in mod-auth-mysql "Crash when logging in" [Low,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/364581
** mathiaz: accepting

===== Open Discussion =====
* kirkland: tftpd-hpa in lucid sucks
** stgraber: I'm still not sure about what to do here but I'm very tempted to restore the old behavior
** done
* ttx: Ubuntu bug 508382 in bacula "bconsole does not connect to bacula-director" [Medium,Confirmed]

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====
* ttx: That will be again same place same time, for at least one more week

=== Log ===
<pre>
[14:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:01. The chair is ttx.
[14:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:01] <ttx> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[14:01] <ttx> Agenda ^
[14:02] <ttx> smoser: around ?
[14:02] <ivoks> (date on the meeting is wrong)
[14:02] <smoser> here
[14:02] <ttx> jib is not available so I'll chair this one
[14:02] <ttx> kirkland is scribe, though he is not available right now
[14:03] <ttx> mathiaz is probably on a plane somewhere
[14:03]  * mathiaz waves
[14:03] <ttx> hah
[14:03] <ttx> Good, so we have quorum :)
[14:03] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:03]  * nijaba hopes mathias does not make the plane wave
[14:03] <ttx> ACTION: ttx to announce papercuts nominations
[14:03] <ttx> done
[14:03] <ttx> ACTION: zul to do another call to action for the apport hooks involvement
[14:04] <zul> will do today
[14:04] <ttx> ACTION: zul to raise php5.3 update on -server and -devel mailinglist, outline which apps are currently not working with 5.3
[14:04] <zul> done
[14:04] <zul> i think the conensus of the community is to move to 5.3
[14:04] <ttx> zul: is that expected to generate an insane amount of work ?
[14:04] <zul> which means I have to start cracking ;)
[14:05] <mathiaz> zul: what the list of packages that will be broken by moving to 5.3?
[14:05] <zul> ttx: not really, some package s in universe will have to be updated
[14:05] <ivoks> + for 5.3
[14:05] <nijaba> mathiaz: none in main, hopefully
[14:05] <ttx> zul: ok, break them first
[14:05] <ttx> [TOPIC] Alpha3 progress review
[14:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Alpha3 progress review
[14:05] <zul> drupal is the big one big one but we already have drupal6
=== jamalta-afk is now known as jamalta
[14:06] <ttx> So we'll concentrate on prio 1 specs < 70% completion and prio 2 specs < 50%
[14:06] <ttx> uec-testing (mathiaz), quick update on status ?
[14:06] <kirkland> ttx: i plan on testing today's iso
[14:06] <mathiaz> ttx: I think we're in good shape there
[14:07] <mathiaz> ttx: most of the remaining items are about doing the tests
[14:07] <kirkland> ttx: i'll sync with mathiaz before commencing
[14:07] <ttx> kirkland: glad you could make it
[14:07] <ttx> kirkland, mathiaz: ack
[14:07] <ttx> mysql-5.0 (zul): ETA for mysql-cluster
[14:07] <kirkland> ttx: my bip proxy server crashed, OOM errors, kernel panic
[14:07] <zul> ttx: upload it today hopeflly
[14:07] <ttx> seeds (mathiaz): are we reaching a conclusion on RHCS ?
[14:08] <ttx> seeds (zul): did you forward the ctdb issues to Jelmer ?
[14:08] <mathiaz> ttx: hmmm
[14:08] <zul> ttx: not yet
[14:08] <mathiaz> ttx: I had a short talk with ivoks
[14:08] <mathiaz> nijaba: what's your position on rhcs in main for lucid?
[14:08] <ttx> [ACTION] zul to forward issues about ctbd to jelmer to see if those can be lifted before FF
[14:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to forward issues about ctbd to jelmer to see if those can be lifted before FF
[14:09] <ttx> [ACTION] zul to do another call to action for the apport hooks involvement
[14:09] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to do another call to action for the apport hooks involvement
[14:09] <ttx> (backlog)
[14:09] <nijaba> mth
[14:09] <nijaba> mathiaz: my position is simple: we should follow ivok's reco
[14:10] <RoAkSoAx> and that was the plan, to demote RHCS and include the new cluster stack
[14:10] <ttx> nijaba: if ivoks is maintaining it, it makes sense for it to be in universe ?
[14:10]  * Daviey wonders if anyone actually uses RHCS anyway
[14:11] <mathiaz> right - that's more the question - main versus universe
[14:11] <ttx> Daviey: ivoks does
[14:11] <mathiaz> After having talked with Fabio it seems to be a bad idea to keep all of rhcs in main for lucid
[14:11] <nijaba> ttx: that's another discussion, but yes, I am afraid it is the only solution for 10.04
[14:11] <ttx> my understanding is that it's difficult to have the new cluster stack in main without keeping most of RHCS i main
[14:11] <mathiaz> and the current cluster stack is still a moving part
[14:12] <mathiaz> so from an LTS perspective, maintenance for 5 years is also reduced
[14:12] <mathiaz> ttx: not really
[14:12] <mathiaz> ttx: most of the binary packages can be moved to universe
[14:13] <nijaba> we have to be conscious that we are introducing a gap in our feature coverage, but I don't think it really matters
[14:13] <ttx> mathiaz: ok
[14:13] <ttx> mathiaz: that thread should reach a conclusion soon, then
[14:13] <ttx> Maybe a little more discussion can't hurt
[14:13]  * mathiaz agrees
[14:14] <ttx> ok, moving on
[14:14] <ttx> daily-vcs (zul): quick update on status ?
[14:14]  * Daviey would be highly suprised if any enterprise used lucid RHCS in >3 years anyway. So lack of being in main makes little difference.
[14:14] <zul> ttx: been working on the higher priority specs
[14:14] <ttx> puppet-etckeeper-integration (mathiaz, soren): any progress to report ?
[14:14]  * nijaba agrees with Daviey
[14:14] <zul> ttx: no progress though
[14:14] <ttx> Daviey++
[14:15]  * RoAkSoAx agrees with Daviey too
[14:15] <Daviey> Shhh!  We've moved on :)
[14:15] <mathiaz> ttx: waiting on merging 0.25.4 from debian
[14:15] <ttx> puppet-uec-ec2-integration (mathiaz): not started yet, is it in danger ?
[14:15] <ttx> soren ^is this under way ?
[14:15] <soren> Oh hai!
[14:15] <mathiaz> ttx: it's in unstable now
[14:16] <ttx> soren: o/
[14:16] <soren> No news, no.
[14:16] <mathiaz> ttx: ec2-integration: I'm planning to work on that this week
[14:16] <mathiaz> ttx: I don't see it in danger for alpha3
[14:17] <mathiaz> soren: 0.25.4 is in unstable now - it should be merged in lucid
[14:17] <ttx> soren: are you still on track to complete the etckeeper integration item ?
[14:17] <soren> mathiaz: Cool. I'll do that soon.
[14:17] <ttx> ok
[14:17] <soren> ttx: I believe so, yes.
[14:18] <ttx> Questions on alpha3 progress ?
[14:18] <ttx> Other things affecting alpha3 that anyone wants to report ?
[14:18] <ttx> Moving on.
[14:18] <ttx> [TOPIC] server-lucid-papercuts : Nomination review
[14:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  server-lucid-papercuts : Nomination review
[14:18] <ttx> Please see list at https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs
[14:19] <ttx> We'll go through them, quick +1 / +0 / -1 from those that reviewed the list
[14:19] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/24741
[14:19] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 24741 in samba "Spurious "account_policy_get failed" messages on install" [Wishlist,Triaged]
[14:19] <ttx> +1
[14:20] <kirkland> ttx: -1 on the password feedback one
[14:20] <ttx> just a sec :)
[14:20] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/56679
[14:20] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 56679 in netcfg "provide a method to use a specified MAC-address as the installation device" [Wishlist,Confirmed]
[14:20] <ttx> debian installer thing... +0
[14:20] <nijaba> ttx: move it to foundations?
[14:21] <kirkland> ttx: +0
[14:21] <ttx> well, its already in their realm, and they don't do papercuts :P
[14:21] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/165184
[14:21] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 165184 in amavisd-new "amavisd-new + spamassassin: cronjob spams root user" [Medium,Triaged]
[14:21] <ttx> No clear agreed solution, +0
[14:22] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/194472
[14:22] <zul> why not redirect it to /dev/null?
[14:22] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 194472 in sudo "Entering password in Terminal gives no visual feedback" [Unknown,Fix released]
[14:22] <zul> foundations again
[14:22] <ttx> highly contentious, -1
[14:22] <mathiaz> -1
[14:22] <zul> -1
[14:22] <Daviey> that is not a papercut :)
[14:22] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/211915
[14:22] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 211915 in amavisd-new "Insecure dependency when using sql for Log Reporting" [Undecided,Confirmed]
[14:22] <ttx> doc bug, +0
[14:22] <zul> +0
[14:23] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/229732
[14:23] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 229732 in initramfs-tools "USB Keyboard drivers not loaded in initramfs" [Undecided,In progress]
[14:23] <ttx> Not really server, +0
[14:23] <zul> -1
[14:23] <kirkland> ttx: definitely not really server
[14:23] <mathiaz> -1
[14:23] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/263442
[14:23] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 263442 in mc "mcedit is not longer the default editor" [Undecided,Confirmed]
[14:23] <ttx> +1
[14:23] <zul> more foundationsy
[14:24] <zul> +0
[14:24] <kirkland> ttx: yeah, +1, that could/should be fixed
[14:24] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/289087
[14:24] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 289087 in linux "Missing linux-image-debug packages and metapackages since Intrepid" [High,Triaged]
[14:24] <zul> -1
[14:24] <mathiaz> -1: kernel
[14:24] <ttx> no easy solution : -1
[14:24] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/392377
[14:24] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 392377 in debootstrap "building vm image on text console causes gettys to stop respawning" [Undecided,New]
[14:25] <ttx> not sure anything left todo, +0
[14:25] <mathiaz> ttx: where are the critiria for acceptance?
[14:25] <ttx> in the spec
[14:25] <soren> That should be fixed now.
[14:25] <kirkland> -0
[14:25] <ttx> easy solution, server package, < 2h work
[14:25] <zul> -1 based on soren's feedback
[14:25] <soren> Oh, wait.
[14:25] <soren> No, it's not.
[14:25] <zul> +1 then ;)
[14:25] <soren> It's fixed in debootstrap, not in vm-builder.
[14:25] <ttx> soren: exactly
[14:25] <soren> ubottu confused me by only mentioning debootstrap :)
[14:25] <ubottu> Error: I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)
[14:25] <kirkland> okay, yeah +1 then
[14:26] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/393888
[14:26] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 393888 in ruby1.9 "Ruby 1.9.0 curses Alt-key handling broken" [Undecided,Confirmed]
[14:26] <soren> I'm expecting to fix that this week.
[14:26] <ttx> +1, if its really just a missing builddep
[14:26] <ttx> -Âµ1 if it required bump, since papercuts needs to be bugfixes, not something affected by FF
[14:26] <kirkland> ttx: yeah, +1 if only builddep
[14:26] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/406466
[14:26] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 406466 in linux "2.6.31 - Can't see files in CIFS-mounted directories" [Medium,Confirmed]
[14:26] <zul> -1
[14:26] <ttx> -1 / kernel issue, not even a bug methink
[14:27] <mathiaz> -1 : kernel issue
[14:27] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/428814
[14:27] <ttx> +1
[14:27] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 428814 in amavisd-new "Removal of the package does not remove the cron.daily script" [Low,Triaged]
[14:27] <zul> +1
[14:27] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/458203
[14:27] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 458203 in eucalyptus "euca_conf is missing command-line completion" [Wishlist,Triaged]
[14:27] <kirkland> +1
[14:27] <ttx> +1
[14:27] <zul> +0
[14:27] <kirkland> ttx: that's mostly fixed
[14:27] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/460398
[14:27] <kirkland> ttx: in my last merge
[14:27] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 460398 in vm-builder "/etc/timezone is not set correctly" [Medium,Triaged]
[14:27] <ttx> +1
[14:27] <zul> +1
[14:27] <ttx> kirkland: cool :)
[14:27] <soren> +1
[14:27] <kirkland> +1
[14:27] <smoser> command line completion is mostly fixed, kirkland ?
[14:27] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/480460
[14:27] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 480460 in mcelog "mcelog: warning: record length longer than expected. Consider update." [Undecided,Confirmed]
[14:28] <ttx> +1
[14:28] <zul> +1
[14:28] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/495505
[14:28] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 495505 in tomcat6 "server.number reports 6.0.0.0 not 6.0.X.0" [Medium,Triaged]
[14:28] <ttx> +1
[14:28] <zul> +0
[14:29] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/496554
[14:29] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 496554 in installation-guide "Obsolete info in "Automatic Installation" section" [Undecided,New]
[14:29] <ttx> +1 (?)
[14:29] <ttx> taht sounds like a rather outdated doc
[14:30] <ttx> if its completely rotten, might make sense to remove it rather than try to fix it
[14:30] <mathiaz> +1
[14:30] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/508606
[14:30] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 508606 in command-not-found "Recommend tracepath for "traceroute" and "tracert"" [Undecided,New]
[14:30] <ttx> +1
[14:30] <zul> +1
[14:30] <ttx> A few other ones have been added recently, we'll review them next week
[14:31] <shattered> cool, my nominations went through :-)
[14:31] <ttx> I'll update the status of the bugs accordingly
[14:31] <ttx> shattered: yay !
[14:31] <shattered> not the usb keyboard one, though
[14:31] <ttx> I propose that we discuss bugfixing goals next week, when we have a better idea of how many bugs we are looking at
[14:32] <ttx> Gives a last chance for people to nominate their stuff :)
[14:32]  * nijaba propose not to discard doc bug, and make sure sommer knows about them
[14:32] <ttx> he is assigned to it, iirc
[14:33] <ttx> nijaba: agreed
[14:33] <shattered> debian install document has the same bug
[14:33] <shattered> if you're talking about 496554
[14:33] <ttx> I'll decline the -n, accept the +n, keep the +0 around
[14:33] <ttx> moving on...
[14:33] <ttx> unless there are any questions?
[14:34] <ttx> [TOPIC] server-lucid-apport-hooks  update (zul)
[14:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  server-lucid-apport-hooks  update (zul)
[14:34] <zul> all prior 1 are done except for openssh its pending a review with cjwatson
[14:35] <cjwatson> zul: it is?  I don't have mail about it
[14:35] <cjwatson> nor do I see a branch on LP
[14:35] <zul> cjwatson: hold on lemme pull it up
[14:35] <ttx> zul: Did you get any community feedback on the prio2 ones ?
[14:36] <zul> ttx: no :(
[14:36] <cjwatson> sorry if I missed it on IRC, but IRC is kind of unreliable
[14:36] <ttx> Hopefully you'll get some -- after the email you're going to send about it :)
[14:36] <zul> cjwatson: https://code.launchpad.net/~zulcss/ubuntu/lucid/openssh/openssh-apport-hook
[14:36] <zul> ttx: heh
[14:36] <cjwatson> ah, now I see it, I was looking for upstream branches, sorry
[14:36] <cjwatson> I wonder why I didn't get a mail
[14:36] <zul> cjwatson: no probs
[14:37] <cjwatson> anyway, thanks, I'll review that now
[14:37] <ttx> As a general reminder, apport hooks are easy, and a great way of contributing your first patches/branches to Ubuntu :)
[14:37] <zul> and I dont bite
[14:37] <ttx> especailly with a core-dev standing by to sponsor your work :)=
[14:37] <RoAkSoAx> i might be able to help if the time allows me to do so :)
[14:37] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren)
[14:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren)
[14:38] <ttx> soren: howdy
[14:39] <ttx> soren: if nothing else, when is new guy starting ?
[14:39] <ttx> looks like we lost soren, we'll skip to...
[14:39] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:39] <ttx> jjohansen: howdy ?
[14:39] <smoser> new guy starts: 15th (which is a US holiday) so 16th
[14:40] <ttx> arh
[14:40] <jjohansen> new EC2 kernel is checked in
[14:40] <ttx> smoser: thx
[14:40] <smoser> and booted in daily build output too!
[14:40] <jjohansen> has the latest updates, and updated configs
[14:40] <jjohansen> sweet
[14:40] <ttx> smoser/jjohansen: so krd is complete now ?
[14:40] <jjohansen> yes
[14:40] <ttx> \o/
[14:40] <jjohansen> modulo any bugs
[14:40] <jjohansen> also Bug #519448
[14:40] <smoser> ttx, definitely complete for ec2. and no ramdisks are published right now for uec.
[14:40] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 519448 in linux "No XEN domU support in 32bit virtual flavour" [Wishlist,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/519448
[14:40] <ttx> feature-complete, I should say
[14:41] <jjohansen> has been fixed for next proposed karmic
[14:41] <smoser> so we'll see for uec soon enough.
[14:41] <jjohansen> and those changes are being rolled into lucid as well
[14:41] <jjohansen> I think that is it
[14:42] <ttx> jjohansen: also I blamed kernel for recent lucid random freezes, and it was plymouth fault.
[14:42] <smoser> best bet is to always blame the kernel
[14:42]  * ttx beats himself with a big stick
[14:42] <jjohansen> heh, well I blamed the kernel too, at first
[14:42] <Daviey> plymouth on server shocker.
[14:42] <ttx> soren: are you back ?
[14:43] <soren> Sorry, yes.
[14:43] <ttx> Any other question for John ?
[14:43] <soren> I'm on my new laptop, and my IRC-notification thing seems to be malfunctioning. Sorry about that.
[14:43]  * soren catches up
[14:43] <ttx> ok, back to the future:
[14:43] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren)
[14:43] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren)
[14:43] <soren> Ah.
[14:43] <soren> Um..
[14:44] <soren> I don't actually know when he'll be starting. I /think/ it's next week.
[14:44] <ttx> smoser answered that one
[14:44] <ttx> Feb 16th
[14:44] <soren> Other than that, I've handed over my automatic ISO testing stuff to the QA team. It'll be running in the DC soon.
[14:44] <smoser> i'm 98% certain on that. that is what marjo told me.
[14:44] <soren> smoser: That's probably true, then :)
[14:44] <soren> he should know :)
[14:44] <soren> I think that's all I have.
[14:44] <zul> heh he/she is going to be very very busy
[14:45] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[14:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[14:45]  * mathiaz pulls out the lists
[14:45] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:45] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:45] <mathiaz> anything SRU worth ^^?
[14:46] <ttx> i think bug 503180
[14:46] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 503180 in eucalyptus "eucalyptus-cloud doesn't reply to requests (eucalyptus doesn't work after reboot or services restart issues due to upstart networking behavior)" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/503180
[14:46] <ttx> kirkland: you planned a SRU /if/ the fix inlucid can also be applied to karmic, right ?
[14:46] <Daviey> bug 343870
[14:46] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 343870 in mysql-dfsg-5.1 "php-cli segmentation fault with mysql extension" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/343870
=== dholbach_ is now known as dholbach
[14:46] <kirkland> ttx: it should be a 2-liner
[14:46] <kirkland> ttx: i can prep the upload, and put it in a PPA
[14:47] <kirkland> ttx: if i could get some people to test it
[14:47] <kirkland> ttx: my rig is all Lucid
[14:47] <kirkland> ttx: i won't have much cycles to work on Karmic
[14:47] <ttx> Daviey: already nominated/accepted
[14:47] <Daviey> oops
[14:47] <ttx> kirkland: sounds like a plan.
[14:47] <nijaba> kirkland: ping me when you want to test, I have a setup ready for it
[14:47] <kirkland> ttx: action me to put an upload in a karmic ppa for testing
[14:47] <ttx> kirkland: also TeTeT could help
[14:48] <kirkland> ttx: as soon as 1 person verifies the ppa, i'll push to proposed
[14:48] <ttx> [ACTION] kirkland to propose a karmic fix for bug 503180 in PPA
[14:48] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to propose a karmic fix for bug 503180 in PPA
[14:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 503180 in eucalyptus "eucalyptus-cloud doesn't reply to requests (eucalyptus doesn't work after reboot or services restart issues due to upstart networking behavior)" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/503180
[14:48] <kirkland> ttx: or i can just push to propose, if you recommend
[14:48] <zul> i just like to point out https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/SRUTracker (its still a work in progress)
[14:49] <ttx> we have no idea if the DB deadlock in karmic will be fully fixed by that... so I prefer PPA
[14:49] <kirkland> ttx: ack
[14:49] <ttx> mathiaz: that's all from me
[14:49] <mathiaz> great
[14:50] <mathiaz> anything else?
[14:50] <ttx> zul: cool
[14:50] <mathiaz> there is one bug nominated for jaunty|karmic: bug 364581
[14:50] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 364581 in mod-auth-mysql "Crash when logging in" [Low,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/364581
[14:50] <ttx> +1
[14:51] <ttx> "Low" being slightly underestimated
[14:51] <mathiaz> ok - accepting then
[14:51] <zul> shouldnt bugs be undecided before triaging them?
[14:51] <ttx> zul: no
[14:52] <mathiaz> that's all for the SRU review
[14:52] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[14:52] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[14:52] <ttx> Note that we no longer do a canonical-server-rteam bug review, as it brought little value to the contents of the meeting
[14:53] <Daviey> (\o/)
[14:53] <ttx> any blocking bug should be brought up in Open Discussion
[14:53] <ttx> (not just canonical's team ones)
[14:53] <Daviey> ooo, tftpd..
[14:54] <Daviey> is that being resolved stgraber ?
[14:54] <ttx> If we have some free time, lets see new papercuts nominations :)
[14:54] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/508382
[14:54] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 508382 in bacula "bconsole does not connect to bacula-director" [Medium,Confirmed]
[14:54] <kirkland> tftpd-hpa in lucid sucks
[14:55] <Daviey> kirkland: it's always had some degree of suckness.. but now moreso.
[14:55] <stgraber> I'm still not sure about what to do here but I'm very tempted to restore the old behavior
[14:55] <kirkland> stgraber: or downgrade?
[14:55] <ttx> I'd say +1 on the bconsole bug thing
[14:56] <kirkland> stgraber: at the very least, please restore old behavior
[14:56] <ttx> though LDFLAGS=" " is almost certainly not the right way to fix it
[14:56] <stgraber> ideally I'd just revert to what we had in Karmic but it's not exactly easy to do if we want to be able to sync with Debian in the future
[14:56] <stgraber> (as in, reverting to the old version completely)
[14:57] <Daviey> stgraber: it wouldn't be a huge delta for us to carry, would it?
[14:57] <Daviey> to diverge and carry.
[14:57] <stgraber> so easiest is probably to tweak it so it works as before (inetd + /var/lib/tftpboot + no debconf)
[14:57] <ttx> stgraber: I'd revert to old behavior... and try to convince the debian maintainer of the value of the old system
[14:57] <stgraber> Daviey: I don't think so no
[14:57] <ttx> be it only for upgrade scenarios
[14:57] <ttx> I suppose debian server users also upgrade
[14:58] <ttx> stgraber: reverting to old version won't help in the long run
[14:58] <kirkland> ttx: let's solve this in #ubuntu-server
[14:58] <ttx> sure
[14:59] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[14:59] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[14:59] <ttx> That will be again same place same time, for at least one more week
[14:59] <kirkland> ttx: one hour later, please
[14:59] <ttx> kirkland: it's not in my power to change that
[14:59] <kirkland> ttx: should we just drop that last TOPIC item, then?
[14:59]  * Daviey checks the TOPIC
[15:00] <kirkland> ttx: we always ask, and I always say "one hour later please"  :-)
[15:00] <ttx> kirkland: but... if you convince jos /and/ send an email after having convinced him, I'm ok with one hour later
[15:00] <kirkland> ttx: okay
[15:00] <Daviey> any meeting date and time you chose, providing it is Wednesday at 2:00PM UTC -- Hnery Ford.
[15:00]  * mathiaz pushes for a different day
[15:00] <ttx> mathiaz: that's an even more ambitious move !
[15:00] <jiboumans> kirkland: probably in may, fyi
[15:00]  * jiboumans back to meeting &
[15:00] <ttx> even more not in my little sphere of power
[15:01] <ttx> #endmeeting
[15:01] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 09:01.
[15:01] <soren> Wow, you have a sphere of power? That sounds COOL!
[15:01] <ttx> soren: I used to have a sphere of influence, but it dodn't work that well
[15:02] <soren> What's the exchange rate from Spheres of Influence to Spheres of Power these days?
=== RoAk is now known as RoAkSoAx
[15:04] <ttx> soren: it's not so good. But back when I traded mine, it was good. I got a small Sphere of Power for my medium-sized speher of Influence
[15:05] <kirkland> ttx: soren: and how does a Sphere of Power relate to a Ring of Power?
[15:05] <kirkland> maybe that was what that giant marble was that Sauraman had...
[15:06] <ttx> A Ring of Power is mostly about your friends network. A Sphere of Power is centered around yourself.
[15:06] <soren> kirkland: I'm not sure. I don't even know how it compares to my Spear of DOOM!
[15:06] <persia> soren: How does that differ from the well advertised long pointy stick?
[15:06] <ttx> Spear of Doom ? like... being an admin of ubuntu-core-dev ?
[15:07] <fader_> I haven't even managed to get a Web of Trust... I'm so far behind. :(
[15:07] <ttx> Sphere of Power only allows you to schedule UDS sessions, so it kinda sucks
[15:07] <soren> persia: Well, it's a spear, isn't it? So it's pointy by definition. The tip might break of the pointy stick, and then it'd just be a stick.
[15:08]  * ttx remembers the time of web rings
[15:10] <persia> Ah, so the spear of DOOM! is cladded.  That makes sense.
</pre>
