{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting Meeting, 29 Apr at 16:03 &mdash; 16:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-04-29-16.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

==== Utopic development ====
The discussion about "Utopic development" started at 16:05.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''ACTION:'' jamespage to update the meeting handy actions
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:09)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
* '''Blueprints''' (16:13)

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:14.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:16.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:17.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:18.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:19.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:20.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* jamespage
** jamespage to update the meeting handy actions

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jamespage (50)
* caribou (7)
* ubottu (7)
* meetingology (4)
* smoser (3)
* coreycb (2)
* lutostag (2)
* gaughen (2)
* sforshee (1)
* rbasak (1)
* psivaa (1)

=== Full Log ===

<pre>
 16:03 <jamespage> #startmeeting

 16:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Apr 29 16:03:18 2014 UTC.  The chair is jamespage. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03 <meetingology> 

 16:03 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:03 <jamespage> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <jamespage> hmm - let me dig

 16:03 <jamespage> anyone know? I was not around last week

 16:03 <jamespage> bad arosales

 16:04 <smoser> i had an action item

 16:04 <smoser> to talk to smb

 16:04 <smoser> and that is in progress (wrt bug 1185756)

 16:04 <ubottu> bug 1185756 in drbd8 (Ubuntu Precise) "drbd8-utils not compatible with linux-lts-raring kernel in 12.04" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1185756

 16:05 <jamespage> great

 16:05 <jamespage> thanks for the update

 16:05 <jamespage> #topic Utopic development

 16:05 <jamespage> so just in case anyone missed it utopic is open for development

 16:06 <jamespage> syncs are happening from debian unstable; make sure you keep onto of any merges you did last as well

 16:06 <jamespage> rbasak, are you able to send round a merge update to nudge us all?

 16:07 <jamespage> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule

 16:07 <jamespage> #action jamespage to update the meeting handy actions

 16:07 * meetingology jamespage to update the meeting handy actions

 16:07 <jamespage> so aside from the daily distro grind, now is the time to start documenting features for 14.10 release and getting plans lined up

 16:07 <rbasak> jamespage: will do

 16:08 <jamespage> I know gaughen will be chasing everyone for blueprints!

 16:08 <jamespage> rbasak, thanks!

 16:08 <gaughen> jamespage, it's true! I have an email partially composed to nag folks. Creating the unicorn blueprints first

 16:08 <gaughen> so I give folks a place to move stuff

 16:08 <jamespage> after the lts releases conservative feature approach, feel free to make outlandish and streching objective for utopic

 16:09 <jamespage> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:09 <jamespage> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:10 <jamespage> wow look at that - loads of bugs!

 16:10 * jamespage looks harder

 16:11 <jamespage> looks like kirkland is on a few byobu bugs

 16:11 <jamespage> I'll look at bug 1304135

 16:11 <ubottu> bug 1304135 in juju-core (Ubuntu Trusty) "panic: runtime error: index out of range" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1304135

 16:11 <jamespage> some maas things - lutostag are you on those

 16:11 <jamespage> ?

 16:11 <jamespage> specifically bug 1311151 and bug 1311140

 16:11 <ubottu> bug 1311151 in MAAS 1.5 "MAAS imports Trusty's 'rc' images by default." [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1311151

 16:11 <ubottu> bug 1311140 in python-seamicroclient (Ubuntu) "[SRU] powering multiple nodes errors with max retries" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1311140

 16:12 <lutostag> 1311140 is getting sru'd will take on the other as well

 16:12 <jamespage> ditto bug 1310844 and bug 1310846

 16:12 <ubottu> bug 1310844 in maas (Ubuntu Trusty) "find_ip_via_arp() results in unpredictable, and in some cases, incorrect IP addresses" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1310844

 16:12 <ubottu> bug 1310846 in maas (Ubuntu Trusty) "amt template gives up way too easily" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1310846

 16:13 <lutostag> jamespage: consider them mine

 16:13 <jamespage> lutostag, marvellous

 16:13 <jamespage> anyway - there are a few things on that list - lets try get them fixed

 16:13 <jamespage> so everyone take a look an do bugs :-)

 16:13 <jamespage> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:14 <jamespage> already talked about that

 16:14 <jamespage> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:14 <jamespage> caribou, anything this week?

 16:14 <caribou> strugglin a bit with bug 1313602

 16:14 <ubottu> bug 1313602 in nova-cloud-controller (Juju Charms Collection) "Nova-cloud-controller charms failed to sync ssh keys between compute nodes" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1313602

 16:15 <caribou> then talking about blueprints, I have demands to implement networked kernel dumps

 16:15 <caribou> i.e. possibility to send the kernel vmcore to a remote location

 16:15 <caribou> I'll craft a blueprint on this one

 16:15 <jamespage> caribou, gnuoy or coreycb - any change either of you could help caribou out with the bug above?

 16:16 <jamespage> its a scalability thing

 16:16 <coreycb> jamespage, sure

 16:16 <caribou> I'm facing a specific issue about sending all lines of the file

 16:16 <caribou> coreycb: I'll ping you later

 16:16 <jamespage> caribou, lets not get into details now :-)

 16:16 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:16 <caribou> thanks

 16:16 <coreycb> caribou, yes sounds good

 16:16 <jamespage> psivaa, anything for you?

 16:16 <psivaa> jamespage: nothing from us this week too

 16:17 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)

 16:17 <jamespage> smb, sforshee: anything this week?

 16:17 <sforshee> I'm working on some additional device support in lxc, that's about it

 16:18 <jamespage> sforshee, oo - sounds interesting!

 16:18 <jamespage> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:18 <jamespage> Openstack summit in atlanta in a few weeks

 16:18 <jamespage> quite a few server team attending I suspect

 16:18 <jamespage> anything else anyone is going to?

 16:19 <jamespage> #topic Open Discussion

 16:20 <jamespage> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:21 <jamespage> same time next week

 16:21 <jamespage> #endmeeting
</pre>

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
