{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
=== G0SUB is Baishampayan Ghose
01:01	Spec	when're you headed towards FOSE kjcole?
=== allee is Achim Bohnet
=== olemke [n=olemke@iup.physik.uni-bremen.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:02	jelkner	Spec: thanks for the great work you did on the website!
01:02	kjcole	Spec,  I *WAS* going to shower and head out early.  People said things open at 9:00 but I was guessing  8:00... However, a phone call woke me, and I'm here instead. ;-)
01:02	Spec	hehe
=== minghua [n=minghua@69-153-139-36.dsl.hstntx.swbell.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:03	Spec	I'm going to head out at 7:45, I'm meeting ndanger at microcenter at 8-8:15
01:03	G0SUB	minghua !
01:03	minghua	hello G0SUB
=== rob looks back in
=== raphink Raphal Pinson
=== jsgotangco [n=jsg@210.4.59.59] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:03	kjcole	Spec: I haven't checked out your handiwork yet.  (I got into IRC and haven't done anything else yet.)
01:03	MarioMeyer	heya jerome
=== kjcole is Kevin Cole
=== simira is Karianne Grnningster
=== ompaul is PaulO'Malley wiki http://wiki.ubuntu.com/PaulOmalley
=== jelkner is Jeff Elkner
=== MarioMeyer is Mario Meyer
=== spacey is Herman Bos
=== allee is Achim Bohnet
01:04	simira	is the CC present yet?
=== rob is Robert Stoffers
01:04	Kamion	afternoon folks
=== highvoltage is Jonathan Carter
=== dolzzzon is now known as dolson
01:04	sivang	simira: that's what I was wondering :)
=== dolson is Dana Olson
=== G0SUB is Baishampayan Ghose https://launchpad.net/people/g0sub
01:04	Kamion	dunno about elmo, he had a very long day yesterday+the-day-before
=== Seveas is Dennis Kaarsemaker
01:04	Seveas	hi Kamion
=== ogra is OliverGrawert
=== Spec is Nicholas Wheeler https://launchpad.net/people/dragoncow2
=== sivang is Sivan Greenberg
01:05	flint	flint, is flint
=== jsgotangco is Jerome Gotangco
01:05	jsgotangco	hi MarioMeyer !
=== manicka [n=manicka@ubuntu/member/manicka] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Kamion attempts to arrange for sabdfl to be pinged
01:05	raphink	hehe
=== phanatic is Szilveszter Farkas https://launchpad.net/people/phanatic
01:05	gora	gora is Gora Mohanty, from India
01:06	rob	everyone seen the uncyclopedia entry?
=== imtheface [n=sky@202.73.110.58] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:06	sivang	Kamion: you in the london sprint as well? might be useful to get someone from there to get him to IRC client :)
01:06	simira	yes, nice :)
=== silbs [n=jane@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:06	jsgotangco	heya silbs
01:06	Kamion	sivang: I was there yesterday, but not today
01:06	simira	hi silbs
01:06	silbs	hi jsgotangco
=== jasNIX is Jasbir Khehra, from India
01:06	Seveas	rob - please stay on topic during the meeting (ok, didn't start yet but practice makes perfect)
01:06	sivang	Kamion: ah, k
01:06	sivang	hey silbs :)
01:06	rob	Seveas, yeah just waiting
01:08	flint	hey boys and girls, it is 07:07 here in the Frozen North, when does this parlay start?
01:08	jsgotangco	when we complete a council
01:08	mdke	flint, when the council arrives
01:09	Seveas	Kamion is doing his best to have them poked
=== SteveA [n=steve@195.182.78.95] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== svaksha__ [n=svaksha@59.182.10.251] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Bonzodog [n=bonzodog@unaffiliated/bonzodog] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== jsgotangco reads agenda for starters
=== chanakya [n=gaurav@61.17.123.187] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:10	rob	done that about an hour ago :)
01:11	simira	please repeat
01:11	rob	simira, check out https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda
01:11	jsgotangco	:P
01:12	highvoltage	where's the agenda stored again?
01:12	simira	rob: yeye, I know how to read. But I don't see much difference from last meeting... I thought there ought to be other topics as well
01:12	rob	highvoltage, that link above
=== apokryphos [i=[U2FsdGV@server2.polaristar.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:12	Kamion	sabdfl will not be here; I'll phone elmo
01:12	Kamion	unfortunately it seems a bit implausible that we'll get mako at this time, although I can try
01:12	flint	it is no doubt in my mind that the community council is meeting over lunch...:^)
01:13	raphink	hehe
01:13	rob	flint, not everywhere in the world it is lunch
01:13	Kamion	no reply from elmo's phone
01:13	Kamion	flint: that would work better if we were all in the same place ...
01:13	Spec	rob: yes it is
01:13	Kamion	(sabdfl sent apologies, BTW)
=== simira just had lunch
01:13	flint	rob, in fact only at GMT is it lunch...
01:14	rob	thats right
=== svaksha__ [n=svaksha@59.182.10.251] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["client]
01:14	sivang	simira: you also in LOndon?
01:14	ompaul	flint, na its too early midday 15?
=== spacey having lunch :p
01:14	Kamion	and of course I can't find mako's phone at the moment because obviously he isn't on the Canonical phone list any more. bugger.
01:14	gora	Well, I am having lunch here at GMT+05.30
01:14	simira	sivang: no, Oslo. GMT +1
01:14	Kamion	Um. This might not work very well.
01:14	imtheface	mako missing?
01:14	G0SUB	hehe
01:14	imtheface	:)
01:14	sivang	Kamion: you're the only persistent CC member that's always on :)
01:14	raphink	it's lunch time for most europeans
01:15	Kamion	imtheface: 7am for him by my calculations
01:15	Spec	he's in my timezone
01:15	Kamion	although IIRC he was OK with the time
01:15	Kamion	mako isn't full-time on Ubuntu any more though, so it's not always feasible for him to turn up
01:15	Kamion	why don't we go over matters which don't require a vote, and I'll attempt to fly solo
01:16	jelkner	question:  will we be discussing the "Member candidates for consideration"?
01:16	Kamion	I believe that's just the IRCops thing
01:16	Seveas	Kamion, and locoteams
01:16	rob	yeah, pretty much
01:16	Kamion	jelkner: if we don't have quorum, that's pretty hard
01:16	jelkner	ahh
01:16	azeem	mako went to bed 6 hours ago, it seems
01:16	jelkner	i'll need to leave to teach
01:16	jelkner	i wanted to go on record in support of nick wheeler
01:17	Spec	thanks, have fun teaching :p
01:17	flint	Kamion, you could resolve to vote later, nominate on contingency of a vote.
01:17	Seveas	flint, with only one present that's icky
01:17	Seveas	s/one/one CC member/
=== mdke [n=matt@ubuntu/member/mdke] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["lunch"]
01:17	SteveA	Kamion: http://mako.cc/contact.html
01:17	Kamion	flint: we could do, but we'd be voting later anyway. FWIW all the proposed members look qualified to me
01:18	flint	Kamion, flint goes on record to endorse wheeler as a MOTU
=== segfault [i=carlos@ubuntu/member/segfault] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:18	Kamion	Seveas: ah, thanks
01:18	MarioMeyer	heya segfault
01:18	jsgotangco	this isn't a Technical meeting
01:18	Kamion	er
01:18	segfault	mariomeyer: morning :)
01:18	Kamion	SteveA: ah, thanks
01:19	Kamion	tried mako's phone, got voicemail
01:19	ompaul	Kamion, the mobile is the shortest route to mako
01:19	Kamion	ompaul: that's the one I tried
01:19	ompaul	ahh
01:19	Kamion	ok, let's go over this IRC ops issue
01:19	Kamion	is Robert Stoffers here?
01:19	rob	yes
01:19	Seveas	rob is him
01:19	Kamion	ah, that's you
01:20	Seveas	rob is Freenode Staff, ubuntu member and docteam person -
01:20	Kamion	what other active Australian ops do we have? IIRC from the last meeting that our coverage there was wea
01:20	Kamion	k
01:20	Seveas	we have no other active ops in that area
01:20	Seveas	bob2 is MIA, ajmitch isn't active in #ubuntu
01:20	Kamion	jelkner: thanks, BTW - noted your support
01:21	Kamion	daniels is more or less MIA now too
01:21	spacey	mia?
01:21	Seveas	missing in action
01:21	Kamion	well, fooishbar as he is on the ops list
01:21	ompaul	thoreauputic when he can get a moment
01:21	jelkner	Kamion: great, thank you
01:21	Seveas	daniels hasn't been active in there in quite a while
=== apokryphos nods
01:21	rob	as a freenode staffer I can take cloaks directly, sort out problems quickly, get in direct contact by phone with freenode head of staff (Rob Levin)
01:21	azeem	jdub?
01:21	apokryphos	not that active in #ubuntu
01:22	Seveas	rob, hah, I have lilos pager/phone too ;)
01:22	azeem	if you allow a side question, is there a mechanism to page ops if needed as in #debian?
01:22	sivang	MIA sounds so military :)
01:22	Seveas	azeem, !ops in the channel
=== gnomefreak [n=gnomefre@adsl-221-44-64.rmo.bellsouth.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:22	Kamion	I see very little reason to object to somebody who's in the position of being *both* network staff and an Ubuntu member :-)
01:22	azeem	Seveas: ok
01:22	rob	heh, I have his and his other halfs mobiles :)
01:22	Seveas	Kamion, ny thoughts exactly
=== Hobbsee may be able to do some IRC op'ing, and is in australia
01:23	jsgotangco	we're very much near a monopoly then
01:23	jsgotangco	heh
01:23	Kamion	so please go ahead and give rob #ubuntu channel operator privileges
01:23	rob	thanks :)
01:23	Seveas	I think rob can do that himself ;)
01:23	ompaul	hehe
01:23	Hobbsee	in #ubuntu as well, that is
01:23	jsgotangco	heh
01:23	rob	no, needs approval from jdub or someone else who works at ubuntu
01:23	Kamion	technical ability and operational permission are different, as any sysadmin will know ...
01:23	Seveas	rob, I am channel/group contact - consider this approval
01:23	rob	ah, when did that change?
01:24	apokryphos	some time ago
01:24	Seveas	less than 2 weeks ago
01:24	apokryphos	oh :-O
01:24	Kamion	rob: I'm Canonical staff and a CC member, so that should do too
01:24	rob	sounds good to me
01:24	Seveas	group contact a few months ago
01:24	apokryphos	ah yes
01:24	Seveas	Kamion, I'd like to reject the other suggestion (ubuntu/member/* as op)
01:24	rob	never mind anyway, I'm thinking of a cloak (you can just add me to your access list Seveas)
=== raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:24	ogra	Seveas++
01:24	Kamion	Seveas: I have to agree with you on that, as I mentioned on the wiki
01:24	Kamion	is jpatrick here?
01:25	jsgotangco	whitelist doesn't work always
01:25	MarioMeyer	Seveas++
01:25	Seveas	-ChanServ- [rob]  has been added to the access list for #ubuntu with level [10]
01:25	rob	thanks Seveas
01:25	Kamion	obviously any member can be considered as an op, but I don't want the two concepts to be identical
01:25	apokryphos	Kamion: doesn't seem to be on IRC atm
=== gnomefreak [n=gnomefre@adsl-221-44-64.rmo.bellsouth.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
01:25	rob	I think it would be a very bad idea to allow every member ops in #ubuntu
01:25	Kamion	well, the note is on the wiki for him
01:25	Kamion	locoteams
01:25	Kamion	smurf: here?
01:25	Seveas	Kamion, by that reasoning all ubuntu members should be forum administrators too
01:26	rob	just make them show up here at a meeting, and get the nod
01:26	MarioMeyer	if all members were ops we could have a LOT of people applying for membership only to get ops.
01:26	Seveas	MarioMeyer, true that
01:26	rob	thats true too
01:26	Kamion	Seveas: exactly
01:26	apokryphos	some do with that in mind, anyway.
01:26	rob	and a lot of people are just not suitable for it anyway
01:26	azeem	since when is being ops fun, anyway?
01:26	rob	its not :)
01:26	Seveas	ok, I consider it rejected - I'll ask jpatrick for his side of the reasoning and maybe put it back on the agenda
01:26	Spec	for the record, i don't want to be an op on irc :p
01:27	Kamion	thanks
01:27	spacey	i surely don't want to be an irc op :p
01:27	Seveas	locoteams
01:27	Seveas	G0SUB, indianteam
01:27	rob	ok, I'm off to bed, bye
01:27	highvoltage	poeple who have @hotmail.com accounts want to be ops, usually.
01:27	G0SUB	Seveas yes
01:27	apokryphos	azeem: it's a common thing; if you're in a community for some time, it's not so farfetch'd to see ops as an elite participant in the community. Some people like the concept of more power. ;-)
01:27	smurf	Kamion: somewhat
01:27	G0SUB	Can I paste an introduction?
01:28	flint	apokryphos, some people want to eat the sausage, and not know how it is made...
01:28	Seveas	G0SUB, please do (about the inian team - not yourself)
01:28	G0SUB	yes ...
01:28	G0SUB	Hello, we are here to apply for `official status' for the Indian LoCo
01:28	G0SUB	Team. We have done quite a lot of work for both Debian & Ubuntu in the
01:28	G0SUB	past and have worked on issues related to Indic Computing. Our members
01:28	G0SUB	continue to contribute to the two projects in terms of localisation and
01:28	G0SUB	development. Most of us have worked for Debian as a part of the
01:28	G0SUB	Debian-IN Team. For example, soumyadip here is the maintainer of
01:28	G0SUB	ttf-indic-fonts & numerous Indic aspell dictionaries for both Debian &
01:28	G0SUB	Ubuntu. gora has done a great amount of Oriya translations
01:28	G0SUB	(https://launchpad.net/people/gora-mohanty), I am the maintainer of the
01:28	G0SUB	Debian Graphical Installer Bengali Translations and a member of Ubuntu
01:28	G0SUB	Bengali Translations Team (https://launchpad.net/people/g0sub). svaksha
01:28	G0SUB	co-wrote the Sanskrit (sa) Locale with Christian Perrier, and there are
01:28	G0SUB	a lot of other members who have contributed a lot in terms of l10n and
01:28	G0SUB	bug reports, and not to mention advocacy and distributing CDs.  So here
01:28	G0SUB	I would request the CC team to grant the Indian LoCo Team official
01:28	G0SUB	status and let us continue our work as the LoCo Team for India.
01:28	G0SUB	...
01:29	Kamion	whoa, big intro
01:29	Seveas	good intro
01:29	G0SUB	hehe
01:29	G0SUB	a big country :)
01:29	Seveas	How many members does your team have?
01:29	Kamion	how's Ubuntu been received in India?
01:29	G0SUB	Kamion Ubuntu is almost #1 in India
01:29	Kamion	I know that the installer's been weak on many Indian languages due to console limitation
01:29	jsgotangco	ive seen pics of sabdfl swamped by locals during his tour in india
01:29	Kamion	s
01:29	G0SUB	Seveas we have 15+ people if you consider translators
01:29	gora	Seveas: 23 signed up at last count: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianTeam
01:29	Kamion	hopefully that will change with the live CD installer (and I hope we can get testing and translations from you guys)
01:30	G0SUB	of all languages
01:30	Seveas	G0SUB, not bad!
01:30	Kamion	G0SUB: almost #1> whom do we still need to beat? :)
01:30	G0SUB	hehe
01:30	Seveas	I really like that the team is active in both Debian and Ubuntu
01:30	gora	Kamion: Le chapeau rouge
01:30	Kamion	ah, predictable
01:30	G0SUB	Seveas we have Debian-IN project specifically for this ...
01:31	Spec	(Where can I find a list of existing LoCos?)
01:31	gora	Not to mention that most of us also work for IndLinux (http://indlinux.org) language teams, though this is not an official IndLinux project at the moment.
01:31	Kamion	Is there anything you guys need help with?
01:32	Seveas	Spec, LocoTeamList on the wiki
01:32	G0SUB	Kamion we need infrastructure like a website, mailing lists, ubuntu-in.org, etc.
01:32	G0SUB	Kamion I have mailed Henrik Omma about that already
01:32	Kamion	as I understand it smurf generally can/does deal with a fair bit of that
01:32	G0SUB	yes, smurf too
01:33	Kamion	although he does a sufficiently good job that I have remained blissfully unaware of the details :-)
01:33	Kamion	if there's a delay on mailing list creation, contact jdub
01:33	Seveas	mailing lists  jdub, ubuntu-CC.org  smurf
01:33	G0SUB	Kamion and there are a few things, like a few apps with Indic specific patches ... we would like to have them in Ubuntu
01:33	Seveas	website: your own responsibility afaik -- does Ubuntu/Canonical offer hosting?
01:33	G0SUB	Seveas they do
01:34	Kamion	G0SUB: perhaps you could put together a hit-list somewhere and post a URL to that list to #ubuntu-devel
01:34	Kamion	Seveas: linode
01:34	G0SUB	Kamion yes, we are already working on putting together a list
01:34	Kamion	(iirc)
01:34	MarioMeyer	Kamion, serverponto also
01:34	G0SUB	it's Linode and is provided by Henrik Omma according to the wiki
01:35	Kamion	ok, I see no problem with granting the Indian team official status, if smurf is happy with how things are going
01:35	G0SUB	:)
01:35	jsgotangco	the linodes are not available anymore
01:35	G0SUB	oh
01:35	jsgotangco	what we have are server prontos
01:35	Kamion	smurf: if you can deal with that out of band, that'd be great
01:35	Kamion	next up is the Chinese team
01:35	freeflying	Kamion: locoteam stuff past?
01:36	jsgotangco	we can work it out later
01:36	gora	Cool, thanks.
01:36	freeflying	Kamion: hi
01:36	G0SUB	jsgotangco great!
01:36	G0SUB	Kamion thanks!
01:36	Kamion	freeflying: would you like to give an introduction with what you guys have been doing?
01:36	Kamion	and anything you need help on
=== svaksha [n=svaksha@59.182.30.213] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:36	freeflying	Kamion: will we ChineseTeam be confirmed
01:36	freeflying	Kamion: about ubuntu-cn locoteam
01:37	Kamion	yes, I know what your request is. :-)
01:37	Kamion	are there other Chinese team folks here as well?
01:37	freeflying	Kamion: no
01:37	Kamion	unfortunately I cannot read the web site to try to get an idea of activity, organisation, how well the Chinese team is getting along internally, etc.
01:38	jsgotangco	is there a -cn channel in freenode?
01:38	freeflying	jsgotangco: #ubuntu-cn
=== raphink thought chinese was zh :s
01:38	jsgotangco	ahhh
01:38	Kamion	raphink: language => zh, country => CN
01:38	freeflying	ubuntu-zh@lists.ubuntu.com
01:38	raphink	Kamion: thanks
01:39	freeflying	our website : www.ubuntu.org.cn
01:39	freeflying	wiki.ubuntu.org.cn
01:39	freeflying	archive.ubuntu.org.cn
01:40	freeflying	Kamion: so , how about all these for being confirmed ?
01:40	Kamion	ok, unfortunately I cannot really get any useful information from those without speaking Chinese
01:41	Kamion	I need somebody to be able to talk with me about your team's activity levels, what you've been doing, and how Ubuntu is getting along in China
01:41	freeflying	Kamion: Riddell can
01:41	Kamion	Riddell isn't a member of the Chinese team, surely?
01:41	raphink	hehe
01:41	jsgotangco	hehe
01:41	freeflying	Kamion: but he know we have done for ubuntu
01:42	jsgotangco	but Riddell has been very helpful on the chinese team
01:42	jsgotangco	especially that cd
01:42	Kamion	I think I need to have a few more folks from the Chinese team here
01:42	silbs	Kamion: if I may, from an email I have a list of some things the Chinese team have done
01:42	silbs	I'm going to paste, if that's okay
01:42	Kamion	silbs: sure, I'm just uncomfortable with a single guy showing up :-)
01:42	silbs	1.    Resolved OOo2 crash while input chinese.
01:42	silbs	2.    Submit skim and scim input method into Kubuntu and Ubuntu repo.And resolved the compatibility between them.
01:42	silbs	3.    Merge some GPL CJK fonts into a "Free CJKunion" font.Covert some chinese TTF into vector fonts.
01:42	silbs	4.    Added a new BugReport system on forum.
01:42	silbs	5.    Actived two mailling list : ubuntu-zh@lists.ubuntu.com and http://groups.google.com/group/ubuntu-cn
01:42	silbs	6.    Released a better fontsconfig for chinese users.It resolved bold and italic fonts show in chinese.
01:43	silbs	and I believe they are planning to have a dapper release party
=== imtheface [n=sky@202.73.110.58] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:43	Kamion	freeflying: have you made any progress on resolving differences within the Chinese team on such things as SCIM support details?
01:43	ogra	freeflying, whee, you are silbs-monitored .... :)
01:43	silbs	there are, Ibelieve, about 6 active members in the team
01:43	silbs	and interest is growing
01:43	jsgotangco	freeflying, do you know EricNeon?
01:44	freeflying	jsgotangco: ya
01:44	jsgotangco	hmm he's not around at the moment though
=== EricOSfire [n=ericneon@218.80.171.115] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:44	Kamion	is there a bug report for that improved fontconfig?
01:44	freeflying	Kamion: actrually , now is the dinner time for we here now , so guys can not access irc
01:44	EricOSfire	hello ~
01:44	silbs	Kamion: I'm not sure what LoCo team decision criteria are, so don't know if this is enough. But I do think these guys represent the most active community presence we have in China
01:44	Kamion	freeflying: ok, I realise timings aren't always ideal
01:44	jsgotangco	oh there he is
=== Kinnison [n=dsilvers@haddenham.pepperfish.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== EricOSfire is now known as EricNeon|CNteam
01:45	freeflying	EricNeon|CNteam: Kamion wanna know something f our team
01:45	EricNeon|CNteam	good
01:45	freeflying	EricNeon|CNteam: so plz , say something
01:46	EricNeon|CNteam	Kamion , nice to meet you !
01:46	Kamion	likewise
01:46	Kamion	12:36 < Kamion> freeflying: would you like to give an introduction with what you guys have been doing?
01:46	Kamion	12:36 < Kamion> and anything you need help on
01:46	Kamion	silbs has given me some comments about what you've been doing already
=== raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:46	Kamion	how is Ubuntu getting along in China?
=== Yagisan [n=jamie@60-240-65-246-nsw-pppoe.tpgi.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:47	EricNeon|CNteam	ng~
=== licio [n=licio@licio.estaminas.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:47	jsgotangco	its a big place :)
01:47	Spec	I have to go, I'll try to make it to the next meeting. Gotta go promote Ubuntu at FOSE.
01:47	Spec	Hopefully there are more CCs next time :)
01:48	Seveas	bye spec
01:48	freeflying	Kamion: we are struggeleing advocateing ubuntu in china now
01:48	flint	Spec, I take it that you are in nomination...
01:48	Kamion	Spec: sorry about that :-/
01:48	EricNeon|CNteam	Kamion,as you know, ubuntu china team have more then 5000 members
01:48	raphink	Spec: drop by on #ubuntu-motu some time if you wish to become a MOTU
01:48	Spec	Kamion: no problem, :p
01:48	jsgotangco	whoa
01:48	MarioMeyer	morning licio
01:48	flint	Kamion, what is Wheeler's state at this time.
01:48	Spec	sober
=== chanakya [n=gaurav@61.17.123.187] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
01:48	Seveas	EricNeon|CNteam, 5000 members?!?
01:48	Seveas	woah...
01:48	Spec	that's quite a few members
01:49	Seveas	how many of them are active?
=== chanakya [n=gaurav@61.17.123.187] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:49	EricNeon|CNteam	Seveas: absolutely!
01:49	jsgotangco	in china, everything is big
01:49	licio	MarioMeyer, good :-)
01:49	EricNeon|CNteam	heh~
01:49	jsgotangco	its beating texas
01:49	jsgotangco	heh
01:49	Kamion	EricNeon|CNteam: as I didn't know, but thank you :-)
01:49	Kamion	flint: we have an agenda
01:49	ompaul	Seveas, picture this one in a million in China is one in 1400
01:49	freeflying	Kamion: shall i paste what we have done
01:50	flint	Kamion, no disrespect, just asked what his status was at exit.
01:50	kjcole	I too am off to FOSE.  We've got 2500  Ubuntu CD's to hand out. ;-) (FOSE = Federal Office Systems Expo --  US federal government's biggest computer conference)
01:50	Kamion	flint: let's take this to /query to avoid disrupting a discussion in progress
01:50	EricNeon|CNteam	there are more then 30-50 members of core team
01:51	Spec	(don't get me in trouble, flint.)
01:51	flint	Spec, I only advocate 100%.
01:51	Seveas	EricNeon|CNteam, that's quite nice - now if only you guys could make CJK rock ;)
01:51	Kamion	EricNeon|CNteam: that sounds like pretty good progress; how is the team getting along internally?
01:52	jsgotangco	they translated the whole site
01:52	jsgotangco	whoa
01:52	jsgotangco	even the partners page
=== chanakya [n=gaurav@61.17.123.187] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
01:52	Kamion	we should be able to get most of the scim changes into main fairly soon, which should help for CJK support
01:53	EricNeon|CNteam	we builded a power forum on website
01:53	freeflying	jsgotangco: wow, not the partners pages
01:53	freeflying	Kamion: scim is one of the goal of BetterCJKSupport
01:53	EricNeon|CNteam	and the core team members must online ervery day
01:53	Kamion	I notice that there's a separate ubuntu-cn archive; are bugs filed for everything in there so that it can all eventually be merged back?
01:54	freeflying	jsgotangco: we host a wiki with ubuntu-tw and guy from hk for translate
=== jsgotangco is reading LinuxWindows page
01:54	raphink	jsgotangco: I like the cartoon on it... about what I can understnad ;)
01:55	freeflying	Kamion: we also have subteam for ubuntu-cn , such docteam websiteteam tecjnicalteam
01:55	jsgotangco	the forum has 6000 members
01:55	jsgotangco	with more than 53,000 posts
01:56	G0SUB	raphink http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/LNW.htm
01:56	spacey	its bigger then ubuntuforums? :P
01:56	jsgotangco	it just grew up on it own and became sustainable
01:56	Seveas	spacey, no
01:56	spacey	ok, just checking :)
01:56	raphink	thanks G0SUB
01:56	G0SUB	raphink :)
=== jsgotangco looks at the site stats page
01:57	spacey	i will definitely convert my chinese friends to ubuntu now :P
01:57	jsgotangco	16,000 unique visits this march alone
01:57	freeflying	spacey: nice
01:58	raphink	spacey: same here :)
01:58	Seveas	ubuntu-cn gets a big \o/ from me
01:58	EricNeon|CNteam	Kamion: we are happy to seen Chinese TW/CN/HK team will merge to one as one year ago,we will resole same problems
01:58	Seveas	nice work as far as I can see
01:58	jsgotangco	their alexa rankings is increasing
=== imtheface [n=sky@202.73.110.58] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== mvo [n=egon@george.kkhotels.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:59	jsgotangco	-s
01:59	Kamion	EricNeon|CNteam: that's certainly good news
01:59	EricNeon|CNteam	so we want build a ubuntu east develper center
02:00	jsgotangco	who sponsors your site?
02:00	EricNeon|CNteam	china and korea and japan~
02:00	freeflying	jsgotangco: ourself
02:01	Kamion	ok, after following up a bunch of links I'm reasonably happy that there's enough activity and organisation to make the Chinese team official (shame it's just me rather than other CC members as well though)
02:01	Kamion	can you coordinate with smurf on any general locoteam organisation issues you have?
02:01	Seveas	freeflying, congrats!
02:01	Seveas	keep up the good work
02:01	EricNeon|CNteam	we have not got any sponsor yet
02:01	freeflying	Seveas: thx
02:01	spacey	looks good indeed:)
=== chanakya [n=gaurav@61.17.123.187] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== ^Odd^ [n=BOFH@24-177-148-2.dhcp.mrqt.mi.charter.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:01	Kamion	also, is there anything you need from the main Ubuntu organisation?
02:01	raphink	great :)
=== ^Odd^ is now known as cute_bettong
02:02	jsgotangco	i think the amout of traffic they generate they need to have a dedicated server
02:02	Kamion	other than "all CJK bugs fixed" ;-)
02:02	freeflying	Kamion: we need more support like server for ubuntu stuff
02:02	Kamion	we don't sponsor hardware for other localisation teams, so I'm not sure that's something that can happen
02:02	Kamion	we => Canonical
02:02	smurf	Indian+Chinese teams look good to me too -- sorry for not participating, I'm @work
02:02	G0SUB	smurf thanks :)
02:03	freeflying	Kamion: and the speend to ubuntu.com is also a problem for us
02:03	Kamion	though obviously that's up to people other than me
02:03	G0SUB	smurf I have already mailed you ...
02:03	smurf	we have server space for European locos etc. if they need them
02:03	svaksha	thanks :)
02:03	EricNeon|CNteam	smurf: thank you !
02:03	Kamion	freeflying: I see that there's a cn.archive.ubuntu.com DNS alias; is it not working well?
02:04	Kamion	smurf: thanks for helping out there
02:04	freeflying	smurf: Kamion Our mirror often give errors like md5sun errors, due to the poor network condition
02:04	EricNeon|CNteam	Kamion:because of government
02:04	Kamion	freeflying: that sounds like something that can be solved technically
02:04	jsgotangco	id say its the filtering
02:04	EricNeon|CNteam	or another things
02:05	freeflying	Kamion: anyway , thx
02:05	Kamion	freeflying: could you arrange for the mirror admin to be put in touch with Znarl (Karl Tilbury), who deals with mirror admin at Canonical?
02:05	freeflying	Kamion: ok
02:05	Kamion	EricNeon|CNteam: the Chinese firewall is famous ;-)
02:05	G0SUB	hehe
02:05	spacey	Great Firewall
02:05	jsgotangco	heh
02:05	freeflying	Kamion: wow , you all know this issue
02:05	jsgotangco	yeah
02:06	flint	EricNeon|CNteam, please feel free to contact me if I can be of any service in regards to networking issues (flint@flint.com)
02:06	freeflying	jsgotangco: thx a lot
02:06	Kamion	it comes up in the tech news every so often, yeah
=== jsgotangco experienced the great firewall on a recenty trip to beijing
02:06	raphink	the only firewall that can be seen from the moon
02:06	EricNeon|CNteam	flint:oh , I will ! thx a lot!
02:06	jsgotangco	freeflying, EricNeon|CNteam congrats
02:06	flint	EricNeon|CNteam, you are most welcome my friend.  
02:06	Kamion	ok, all sounds good - thanks for showing up, and apologies for the somewhat long discussion
02:07	Kamion	with my ftpmaster hat on, I'll have a look over the pending scim promotions to main
02:07	jsgotangco	cheers
02:07	freeflying	Kamion: thx ,and waiting for good news from you
02:07	Seveas	Kamion, maybe you could try and poke mako/elmo again now that we arrived at member candidates?
02:08	Kamion	sure, worth a try, bear with me a moment
02:08	freeflying	smurf: hi
02:08	Kamion	got elmo on the phone, he'll be here shortly
02:09	Seveas	cool
02:09	G0SUB	awesome
02:09	spacey	yay:)
02:09	freeflying	smurf: may we have the domainname www.kubuntu-cn.org
02:09	EricNeon|CNteam	:-)
02:09	MarioMeyer	freeflying, that you may ask to Riddell
02:09	Kamion	aha, and got mako too
02:09	Kamion	we will have quorum shortly
02:09	jsgotangco	coooll
02:09	G0SUB	great!
=== Seveas hugs Kamion
02:09	ompaul	kewl
02:10	freeflying	MarioMeyer: really ?
02:10	jsgotangco	this will be a long meeting
02:10	jsgotangco	heh
02:10	Seveas	jsgotangco, that sometimes happens
02:10	jsgotangco	yeah
02:10	Kamion	in the break before they get here, Hobbsee asked if she could be considered as an #ubuntu operator
02:10	spacey	good thing i make my own schedule
02:10	MarioMeyer	yup.. we got kubuntu-br.org a month ago or so..
02:10	Kamion	Does anyone have an opinion?
02:10	freeflying	MarioMeyer: then ask ogra for www.edubuntu-cn.org ?
02:10	ompaul	+1
02:10	smurf	freeflying: I can give you the data for the regsitration, but I'm not going to register 100+ kubuntu domains in addition to the ubuntu-XX:org ones
=== _mindspin [n=mindspin@p54B2D101.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:10	Seveas	-0
02:10	MarioMeyer	freeflying, prolly
02:10	Seveas	don't know her too well but no objection
02:11	ompaul	Seveas, what I have seen impresses me
02:11	Hobbsee	to give some background, i'm already an op in #kubuntu, #ubuntu+1, and #kubuntu-offtopic, and i'm also in australia.
02:11	Kamion	hi elmo
02:11	Seveas	ompaul, that's good enough for me
02:11	Hobbsee	i'm also usually connected to #ubuntu as well :)
02:11	Seveas	I never visit the #kubuntu channels
02:11	Hobbsee	hehe
=== mako [n=mako@bork.hampshire.edu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:11	Seveas	Hobbsee, what's your timezone?
=== raphink would like to be op on #kubuntu, too :)
02:11	ogra	mako !
02:11	mako	greetings
02:11	Kamion	I have no objection to Hobbsee as an op. With rob as well, how does this leave our timezone coverage?
02:11	ompaul	mako, morning
02:11	EricNeon|CNteam	hi mako~
02:11	jsgotangco	mako!
02:11	flint	hey mako.
02:11	spacey	hi
02:12	Kamion	QUORATE
02:12	Seveas	raphink, poke riddell, the CC handles only #ubuntu
02:12	Hobbsee	Seveas: ah...AEST - it's 12am wed here now
02:12	mako	apolgoies for being late
02:12	raphink	Seveas: ok
02:12	Seveas	Hobbsee, ok, +1 from me for location
02:12	Kamion	elmo, mako: have gone through the IRC op request on the agenda, dealing with a secondary request from that now; have also checked over and approved Indian and Chinese locoteams
02:13	elmo	Kamion: cool, thanks
02:13	EricNeon|CNteam	wow, all of  idol are all coming~
02:13	Kamion	mako: I know it's early for you
=== juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:13	raphink	ah hi mako:)
02:13	Seveas	Kamion, timezone coverage improves a lot
=== Guest135 [i=easthero@222.51.20.36] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:13	juliux	hi all
02:13	Seveas	basically they're the 'missing link'
=== _mindspin [n=mindspin@p54B2D101.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:13	Kamion	Seveas: is Asia covered?
02:13	G0SUB	Kamion not yet in my opinion ...
02:13	jsgotangco	yep
02:14	G0SUB	India I mean
02:14	Seveas	if we add Hobbsee too: yes
02:14	Seveas	G0SUB, timezone coverage, not country coverage
02:14	G0SUB	hmm
02:14	jsgotangco	australia != asia
02:14	Kamion	G0SUB: well, I mean are there operators around when Indians tend to be online
02:14	freeflying	Kamion: as for  asia , I can
02:14	jsgotangco	unless someone is from perth here
02:15	EricNeon|CNteam	Kamion:yes we can!
02:15	Kamion	ok, so please add Hobbsee as an op, and we'll see how timezone coverage works out
02:15	jsgotangco	we can vouch for the +7,+8+9 timezones
02:15	Kamion	if there's still a problem for Asian folks, we can add somebody from an appropriate timezone
02:15	Seveas	-ChanServ- [Hobbsee]  has been added to the access list for #ubuntu with level [10]
02:16	Hobbsee	excellent :D
02:16	Kamion	let's move on to member candidates
02:16	Seveas	allee, you there?
02:16	Hobbsee	yep, that works
02:16	freeflying	Kamion: we are UTC +8
02:16	allee	Seveas: yes
02:16	mako	actually
=== ogra_ibook [n=ogra@ubuntu/member/ogra] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:16	mako	Kamion: before we do
02:16	mako	there's one thing i wanted to bring up
02:16	Kamion	sure
02:17	mako	we can phrase this as a general question
02:18	mako	but i've been approached by people who are wondering if contributions to launchpad count as contributions to the ubuntu community
02:18	mako	in the course of work for canonical or not
02:18	mako	cleary, contributions to support of ubuntu users and ubuntu conferences counts
02:18	mako	but does launchpad development count towards membership
02:19	Kamion	the only time it's come up really to date has been when Daniel Silverstone was up for membership
02:19	mako	we don't need to answer this right now unless y'all have strong feelings
=== juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:19	Kamion	but in his case we were also familiar with his work on Debian
02:19	Seveas	Work on Debian generally is seen as a contribution to Ubuntu - I think it's no more than reasonable to follow the same reasoning for work on launchpad as launchpad is a direct support of Ubuntu
=== mako nods to Kamion
02:19	mako	Seveas: well, they are a little different
02:19	jsgotangco	but lp isnt ubuntu-centric
02:19	Seveas	jsgotangco, neither is Debian ;)
02:19	G0SUB	heh :)
02:20	ogra	jsgotangco, its our core infrastructure
02:20	mako	because work on debian also leads to a strong confidence in someone's ability to the do the same tasks, truthworthiness, etc
02:20	mako	which lp does too to a degree
02:20	mako	in any case, we don't need to answer this now
02:20	mako	unless people have very strong feelngs either way
02:20	Kamion	I think I'd like to abstain from that question :-)
02:20	Seveas	let's think about it and come back to it next time, I'll put it on the agenda
02:20	mako	it would be good to know that now
02:21	jsgotangco	good point to ponder though
02:21	flint	debian, ubuntu and launchpad are "hacks" of each other... this is about hacking eh
02:21	mako	Seveas: that's fine.. but then we'll make it our homework
02:21	Seveas	mako, voluntary homework
02:21	mako	well, we should think about it
02:21	Seveas	I for one need more time to think about it - couldn't give a complete answer right now
02:22	mako	i understand
02:22	mako	i'm bringing it up because i'm of multiple minds
02:22	Seveas	mako, they have medication to cure that
=== mako looks crazy at Seveas
02:22	mako	alright
02:22	Seveas	anyway, shall we move on to membership candidates?
02:23	mako	that sounds fine
02:23	Seveas	ok, allee, please give us the 3-liner
02:23	allee	I'm a sysadmin running Kubuntu on Laptops and Desktops since Hoary. With dapper, server and cluster will follow. For the curious, a bit of background can be found at [WWW]  http://www.kde.nl/people/debian.html
02:23	allee	I'm a member of the [WWW]  Kubuntu Team. Helping others in creating/maintain packages, maintaining packages myself or helping whereever I can help
02:23	allee	Future Plans: Working more on enhancement and integration of pkgs. e.g. media support, usability, and consistency. Easier setup of networks, in general, everything that helps using Kubuntu on laptop easier. At least keeping an eye on MOTU/Teams/Science, getting involved if time permits.
02:23	allee	done
02:24	raphink	allee is a great help on Kubuntu
02:24	Seveas	one \o/ from me for routing the packages via Debian
02:24	Tonio_	and or sure one of the most helpfull personn for MOTUs
02:24	raphink	:)
02:25	Tonio_	he did so much to help me when Ihad problems
=== infyquest [n=infyques@209.8.233.140] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:25	allee	Seveas: and with an quick sponsor it even much fun :)
=== Hobbsee agrees with raphink, allee's definetly a great help in regards to kubuntu
02:25	raphink	allee: hehe lucky you :)
=== darkmatter [n=darkmatt@206-163-248-150.yktn.hsdb.sasknet.sk.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:26	freeflying	wow allee is not a member ? he should be
02:26	Seveas	freeflying, if the CC agrees with you he'll be a member in a few minutes
02:26	Tonio_	freeflying: incredible, but he still isn't
=== allee blushes
02:27	Seveas	ompaul, f1x0r your wikipage quick - it has a big edit conflict
02:27	ompaul	k
02:27	freeflying	Seveas:  he really shuld be
02:27	Seveas	freeflying, I agree, but Kamion, mako and elmo decide
02:28	raphink	:)
02:28	Kamion	I'm fine with Achim
02:28	Seveas	(on a side note: I like that he takes the correct route to membership: first make sure you contributr an awful lot so the CC does not have to think too long)
02:28	Kamion	work looks pretty good to me
02:28	ompaul	Seveas: done
=== mako nods.. looks good
02:28	elmo	ack
02:29	Seveas	cool! allee welcome on board!
02:29	G0SUB	allee congrats!
02:29	raphink	yeah :)
02:29	phanatic	congrats allee
02:29	EricNeon|CNteam	yeah
02:29	raphink	welcome allee
02:29	freeflying	allee: congrates
02:29	allee	Thx all!
02:29	EricNeon|CNteam	welcome
02:29	Seveas	let's move on quickly as time keeps ticking - dolson there?
02:29	Tonio_	congrats allee
02:29	ogra	congratsd allee
02:29	dolson	Seveas: hi
02:29	ogra	dolson, !!
02:29	Seveas	dolson, your 3-liner please
02:29	MarioMeyer	congrats allee
=== ogra cheers for the audio freak
02:29	dolson	First, sorry this is long. I'm long-winded, and this is only 15% of what I had originally.
02:29	dolson	I'm a musician, and that drives 95% or more of my contributions. So far, I had only used Audacity to record, but wanted to expand to use JACK, and looked into Ardour. I discovered something appauling on their website: "Warning: [...]  Ubuntu and Debian distributions are not recommended [...]  they tend to cause many problems [...]  for users aimed at using applications like ardour."
02:29	dolson	My long-term goal is to rectify this, and help make Ubuntu a recommended audio distro. My short-term goal is to work toward my long-term goal, a package at a time. My wiki (ubuntustudio.com) will fill any gaps with HOW-TOs in the meantime. Dapper has improved in performance, configuration, and has some new apps. A step up from Breezy, and I'm excited for the future.
02:29	Seveas	(and please keep that ferret away from me :p)
02:29	dolson	This came out of an email I sent Mark, requesting Ubuntu support musicians. He heard me and put me in touch with some of his team. They gave me info that I ignored until one day, early February. I decided to try packaging. I read the info Daniel sent, and got started. I packaged some new apps and a few patches from Malone. Thanks to the MOTU team, most of these are in Dapper. It can be frustrating dealing with a newbie like me, but
=== gnomefreak [n=gnomefre@adsl-221-44-64.rmo.bellsouth.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:30	dolson	they have been only helpful and understanding.
02:30	dolson	To sum up, I have to say: this is my distro. There are many like it, but this one is mine.
02:30	raphink	dolson has been uploading a whole lot of packages for the ubuntustudio project on REVU lately
02:30	raphink	and fixing them fast when required
02:30	ogra	yeah
02:31	siretart	I've reviewed some of them. I'm happy with dolsons work so far!
02:31	raphink	he's been active in the MOTU
02:31	jsgotangco	i'm more convinced with his pics than his contributions
02:31	jsgotangco	:)
02:31	jsgotangco	joke
=== ogra is regulary looking on the ubuntustudio page for edubuntu candidates for audio editing :)
02:31	Seveas	Audio on Ubuntu/linu in general needs to go some big leaps ahead - if dolson can help with that it'd be great
02:31	ogra	yeah, the picture is *very* convincing
02:31	Seveas	Feb 10. however is only a month ago
02:32	dolson	that's when I started packaging, yes
02:32	jsgotangco	as well as the affair with warez
02:32	Kamion	I've done a huge pile of NEW processing on stuff that dolson's uploaded, and it all looks good to me
02:32	dolson	I've been on the forums for over a year, IIRC
02:32	ogra	Seveas, ubuntustudio is older and there were discussions on the mailing lists log ago about it already
02:32	Kamion	I'm happy with dolson for membership despite the relatively short timescale
=== ogra remembers dolson
02:32	jsgotangco	yeah
02:32	Seveas	ok, 1 down
02:33	dolson	It was suggested that I become a MOTU, so this is the first step towards that
02:33	jsgotangco	dolson, do you own ubuntustudio.com?
02:33	dolson	jsgotangco: I do
02:33	jsgotangco	that figures
02:33	dolson	about 98% of the work on it I did
=== jsgotangco loved the site
02:33	mako	the work looks great but 1mon seems a bit short
02:34	ogra	its way longer than a month
02:34	jsgotangco	im pretty much familiar with the nick too
02:34	Seveas	ogra, but that's not documented on his wikipage
02:34	ogra	(that he is involved inn ubuntu)
02:34	raphink	mako: well it's one month packaging for MOTU, but the work was longer
02:34	siretart	his work as packager is one month. his work as ubuntu contributor is longer
02:34	jsgotangco	well
02:34	mako	ah, ok
02:34	mako	sure then
02:34	dolson	I've also promoted Ubuntu on a case-by-case basis, and converted at least one person, if that counts for anything
02:34	ogra	Seveas, dig the ubuntu-devel and ubuntu-users archive ;)
02:35	Seveas	ogra, I take your word for it
02:35	elmo	ack from me too
02:35	mako	that sounds fine
02:35	mako	i'm happy with membership
02:35	raphink	dolson: wow! converted one person! ;)
02:35	raphink	hehe
02:35	Seveas	ok, 3 down, welcome aboard dolson!
02:35	raphink	dolson: I think ubuntustudio counts more ;)
02:35	G0SUB	dolson welcome!!
02:35	raphink	welcome dana
02:35	phanatic	congrats dolson
02:35	Seveas	phanatic, poke
02:35	mako	yeah, the other work are still significant contributions
02:35	dolson	thanks guys
02:36	Tonio_	congrats dolson
02:36	phanatic	Seveas: my intro comes then...
02:36	ogra	yay dolson
02:36	Seveas	(I may have to leave without notice RSN - will be back in less than 5 minutes after that)
02:36	freeflying	dolson: congrates
02:36	dolson	:)
02:36	phanatic	I'm a university student from Budapest, Hungary. I administer an Ubuntu server at the university in my hometown. I installed my first Linux back in 99-00. After trying several distros I chose Debian, but since Hoary I use Ubuntu.
02:36	phanatic	My contribution to Ubuntu involves: organizing the Hungarian Community (launched the site ubuntu.hu, localization), spreading the word in the country (I presented Ubuntu in the TV and radio as well), doing some packaging for MOTU (currently maintainer of 4 pkgs).
02:36	phanatic	In the future I'd like to join the MOTU team to help their work, and I'd also like to continue my local community activity to spread free softwares, and Ubuntu of course :)
02:36	elmo	dolson: have you been in touch with anyone yet about trademarks?
02:36	phanatic	See my wiki page for more details on my work: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SzilveszterFarkas
02:36	dolson	elmo: no
=== siretart has to leave now as well, sry
02:37	Kamion	hooray, a perl hacker
02:37	jsgotangco	TV and radio!
02:37	ogra	Kamion, this might change
02:37	phanatic	siretart: i'm sorry to hear that :(
02:37	raphink	phanatic has been quite active in MOTU aswell
02:37	elmo	dolson: you probably should at some stage; I can't imagine it'll be a problem
02:37	ogra	Kamion, i was one as well before i met you guys
02:37	siretart	phanatic has been active in #ubuntu-motu, learning and helping other motu hopefuls
02:37	siretart	I'm happy with his work so far
02:37	phanatic	Kamion: :)
02:37	ogra	siretart++
02:37	raphink	some of phantic's packages are in universe already and he's been helping with bugs too
02:38	Kamion	how's the Hungarian team coming along?
02:38	dolson	elmo: who should I contact? I assume it's because I used "ubuntu" in my domain/site name? you can /msg if you wish
02:38	phanatic	Kamion: there are only a few active members (about 5-6), who contribute to docs, but a lot more are active on our forums (about 100)
02:39	phanatic	ubuntu has the 2. biggest community in hungary (after debian)
02:39	phanatic	but the debian people are getting converted to ubuntu :)
=== cute_bettong is now known as Sudo_chaN
02:42	Kamion	well, I'm happy, seems to be a fair history of significant contributions
02:42	raphink	:)
02:42	Kamion	again I've seen some of phanatic's packages in NEW and not had huge problems with them
=== mako finishes looking
02:43	mako	the contributions looks significant and over a decent period of time
02:43	mako	i'm happy with membership
=== Seveas back
02:43	elmo	me too
02:44	ogra	applause
02:44	G0SUB	phanatic congrats!
02:44	jsgotangco	\o/
02:44	phanatic	thanks for you guys :)
02:44	mako	you did the work
02:44	raphink	congratulations phanatic! welcome aboard :)
02:44	mako	:)
02:44	Seveas	spacey, poke
02:44	freeflying	phanatic: congrates
02:44	ogra	spacey, !!
02:44	spacey	hi
02:44	spacey	unfortunately my gedit just crashed with my 3 lines :P
02:44	spacey	anyway
02:44	spacey	I'm Herman Bos
02:44	G0SUB	spacey file a bug
02:45	Tonio_	welcome phanatic, congrats ;) ^^
02:45	spacey	my wiki page is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HermanBos
=== doko_ [n=doko@dslb-084-059-115-131.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:45	spacey	My activities are quite widespread although most of my activity is with edubuntu
02:45	spacey	also part of the ubuntu dutch team
02:45	spacey	working on a project to convert a school to edubuntu
02:45	spacey	around 50 clients
02:45	ogra	yeah, spacey is one of the most active members of edubuntu
02:46	jsgotangco	++
02:46	spacey	i have some pending work
02:46	Seveas	spacey is one of the earliest members of ubuntu-nl
02:46	ogra	he helps in a lot of areas
02:46	Seveas	oct/nov 2004 iirc
02:46	flint	yes spacey is most active...
02:46	spacey	with getting end user edubuntu feedback to edubuntu
02:46	ogra	he also attended all the edubuntu related BOFs at UBZ :)
02:47	spacey	I just love Edubuntu/Ubuntu, its just my style:)
02:47	spacey	future is more schools to edubuntu
02:47	spacey	:)
02:47	spacey	more documentation
02:47	ogra	yay!
02:47	ogra	JaneW might probably also speak up :)
02:48	Kamion	allee: please apply to join the ubuntumembers team in launchpad (https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntumembers/+join)
02:48	spacey	:)
02:50	mako	i like the ubuntu blog
02:50	Seveas	mako, he's on planet Ubuntu-nl
=== Kamion reads ContentInternetFiltering/Willow
02:51	Kamion	"Personally I couldnt find any porn website which slipped through the filter."
02:51	spacey	http://users.lichtsnel.nl/~spacey/ for the rest :)
02:51	Kamion	spacey: sometimes jobs just really suck, eh? :-)
02:51	ogra	hehe
02:51	spacey	Kamion: hehe :)
02:51	mako	is that a challenge?
02:51	Kamion	anyway, I'm fine with spacey for membership, seem to be good Edubuntu contributions there
=== mako nods to kamion
02:51	Kamion	and I think I remember meeting you at UBZ too
02:51	ogra	lots of :)
02:52	Kamion	(though there were a *lot* of people there ...)
02:52	Seveas	2 down, one to go
02:52	mako	speaking of one to go.. i have about 15 minutes
02:52	spacey	http://users.lichtsnel.nl/~spacey/plaatjes/hackergotchi/spacey-gotchi3-noshadow.png
02:52	flint	Kamion, regarding Nick Wheeler (Spec), I can speak for him in nomination.
02:53	Seveas	flint, we usually don't do that
02:53	Seveas	he can just apply next time
02:53	flint	Seveas, just offering.
02:53	flint	Seveas, then I have to get up early on Tuesday and Wednesday and screw up my schedule! :^)
02:53	Kamion	we do sometimes
02:53	mako	flint: not early
02:54	mako	flint: late afternoon next time
02:54	mako	and we do sometimes
02:54	ogra	elmo, opinions about spacey ?
02:54	jsgotangco	i give my support for spacey as well
02:54	mako	is alwaysa a bit spacey himself these early morning meeings
02:54	spacey	:>
02:54	jsgotangco	(need to go wife calls for late night dinner)
02:54	spacey	mako: you looked spacey at wth as well ;p
02:54	Kamion	several of the Edubuntu people I know have been pretty keen on Nicholas
02:54	elmo	ack
02:54	G0SUB	spacey congrats!
02:55	Seveas	spacey, welcome!
02:55	spacey	yay :)
02:55	mako	spacey: i'd been on the road for 6 weeks :)
02:55	spacey	\o/
02:55	ogra	yay spacey !!!!
=== spacey opens a bottle of wine
02:55	raphink	:)
02:55	flint	That said, it is Town Meeting day here in Vermont and I need to go and govern.
02:55	flint	:^)
02:55	jsgotangco	i dunno nicholas but that's just me (as a regular edubuntu lurker)
02:55	flint	sksk
02:56	Kamion	jsgotangco: not a familiar face?
02:56	Seveas	I really prefer to postpone (flint has gone too, mako has to go soon)
02:56	Kamion	ok, let's leave Spec to next time
02:56	jsgotangco	nope
02:56	Seveas	there are two more candidates present
=== mgalvin [n=mgalvin@ubuntu/member/mgalvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:56	Kamion	Baishampayan Ghose
02:56	Seveas	G0SUB, you're up
02:56	G0SUB	okay, my few lines
02:56	G0SUB	Hello I am Baishampayan Ghose from India. I am an upcoming Debian /
02:56	G0SUB	Ubuntu developer. I have two packages in Debian main which will come to
02:56	G0SUB	Ubuntu in Dapper+1. I am also a Translator and I am the maintainer of
02:56	G0SUB	Debian Graphical Installer Bengali translations. For Ubuntu I have
02:56	G0SUB	cleaned up and written patches for MOTU-Reviewers and those were
02:56	G0SUB	uploaded by jpatrick. I am a member of the Ubuntu Bengali Translators
02:56	G0SUB	team as well as the Indian LoCo Team. I am also a member of the New User
02:57	G0SUB	Network. I have done some translations on Rosetta. I have recently
02:57	G0SUB	joined the MOTU-Science team for which I intend to do a lot in future. I
02:57	G0SUB	have contributed to a couple of wikis, my most major contribution is in
02:57	G0SUB	being the co-author of the JhbuildOnUbuntu wiki which is hosted in
02:57	G0SUB	live.gnome.org. I also do a lot of advocacy and I distribute Ubuntu CDs
02:57	G0SUB	in all the FOSS events I visit. I am also a board member of the Free
02:57	G0SUB	Software Foundation of India.
02:57	Kamion	Jordan Mantha says:
02:57	G0SUB	https://launchpad.net/people/g0sub
02:57	G0SUB	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BaishampayanGhose
02:57	jsgotangco	lol that's a lot of lines
02:57	G0SUB	jsgotangco heh
02:57	Kamion	Baishampayan Ghose has been hanging out around #ubuntu-motu for a week or two. He seems very interested in packaging and shows quite a bit of promise in that area. His work with the Indian LoCo team will be useful for Dapper+1.
02:58	Kamion	G0SUB: FWIW it's easier on us if you try to pack it into fewer but longer lines
02:58	Kamion	anyhow
02:58	G0SUB	jpatrick isn't here ... he could have voted for me too ...
02:58	G0SUB	Kamion Emacs ...
02:58	Kamion	G0SUB: the line I just pasted I did by hand - never blame your tools
02:58	raphink	G0SUB: jpatrick couldn't have voted, but he could have testified
02:58	G0SUB	raphink I am sorry , that's what I mean
02:59	raphink	:)
=== soumyadip [n=soumyadi@59.93.192.121] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:00	Kamion	G0SUB: only two of the eight bugs you list under "Bugs Fixed" on your wiki page actually have any contributions from you recorded in the bug log
03:00	G0SUB	Kamion that's an issue ... actually I gave the patches directly to jpatrick and he uploaded them ... my name's there in the changelog
03:01	Kamion	ok, fair enough
03:01	Kamion	it is worth being clear about that sort of thing
=== mako nods
03:01	G0SUB	yes
03:01	mako	G0SUB: is the indian team active?
03:02	G0SUB	mako yes! very much ... we got official approval today
03:02	mako	ah.. i missed the first 5-10 minutes of the meeting
03:02	mako	my apologies
03:02	Kamion	mako: make that an hour and 5-10 minutes
03:02	ogra	heh
03:02	dolson	haha
03:02	MarioMeyer	lol
03:03	G0SUB	heh
03:03	Seveas	rofl
03:03	mako	oh man
03:03	Kamion	ok, "a week or two" is a bit short to consider the MOTU work I think, but the translation work has clearly been going on for longer
=== ^Odd^ [n=BOFH@24-177-148-2.dhcp.mrqt.mi.charter.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:03	G0SUB	yes
03:03	Seveas	but not yet the infinite translator karma of death ;)
03:03	Seveas	(solid contribution though)
03:04	Kamion	I have this here debian-installer/packages/po/bn.po with G0SUB's name all over it
03:04	G0SUB	heh
03:04	ogra	sounds like a valuable contribution to me
03:04	Kamion	so I'm happy
03:05	mako	yes, the translation work looks good
03:05	G0SUB	I intend to do a lot of merges when dapper+1 is out ...
03:05	Seveas	good plan
03:05	ogra	yeah
03:05	Seveas	the motu will welcome you
03:05	mako	and IIRC, i've been in contact with G0SUB some time before
03:06	G0SUB	mako exactly ... good to see you remember
03:06	G0SUB	mako the 200 CDs I ordered
03:06	G0SUB	and the works
=== subir [n=subir@210-172-29-116.cust.bit-drive.ne.jp] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:07	gora	If it matters, G0SUB has been the big push behind the Ubuntu Indian LoCo team.
03:07	Seveas	gora, it matters
03:07	Seveas	good locoteams are very valuable
03:07	elmo	ack
03:08	Seveas	ok, almost there, only mako needs to be convinced ;)
03:08	mako	i'm convinced
03:08	gora	Seveas: Yeah, I meant as in you all don't know me anyways, so does *my* opinion matter :-)
03:08	Seveas	well, in that case
03:08	Seveas	welcome aboard G0SUB !
03:08	MarioMeyer	congrats G0SUB
03:08	G0SUB	thanks a lot guys! you have been awesome !
03:08	Seveas	last one on the agenda: the evil irishman
03:08	gora	G0SUB: congrats.
03:08	Seveas	ompaul, ping
03:09	licio	G0SUB, welcome.. congrats :-)
03:09	Kamion	G0SUB: please apply to join the ubuntumembers team in launchpad (https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntumembers/+join)
03:09	G0SUB	:)
03:09	ompaul	three line
=== dholbach [n=daniel@george.kkhotels.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:09	G0SUB	Kamion okay
03:09	ompaul	this is as short as I can do it,  Active on Sounder, IRC, and reading some other mailing lists, contribute in whereever I can. In 2005 I gave away in the region of 600 CDs 300 from Canonical the rest I organised the Lug to get them out there. Events that we did this at were : http://www.ictexpo.ie April 2005 ; http://www.ifso.ie a Free Software event on the 18th November which lead to me giving a box to the CS in Trinity College in Dublin and I sup
03:09	ompaul	plied that event. ; http://homepage.eircom.net/~kogrange/ys_computer_2006.html (get them young :-)) In general targeting people that may move over, also provide support to a few machines in the locality where I live. Generally I just love the stuff. Where do I want Ubuntu, everywhere. http://wiki.ubuntu.com/PaulOmalley
03:10	ompaul	ohh and with some guy called seveas set up #ubuntu+1 to move the dapper and future dev based queries out of #ubuntu
=== ogra remebers ompaul being around since quite some time
03:10	Seveas	ompaul, is quite active on irc (#ubuntu, #ubuntu+1, #ubuntu-offtopic at least) and very helpful when it comes to support
03:10	ompaul	thanks
03:11	Seveas	he's also op in #ubuntu and #ubuntu+1
=== soumyadip [n=soumyadi@59.93.192.121] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
03:11	Seveas	(#ubuntu-offtopic soon if bob2 returns)
03:11	mako	i'm happy with ompaul for support and community activity and solid irc contributions
03:11	ompaul	thanks
=== gnomefreak agrees with Seveas ompaul is a valueable member in #ubuntu and #ubuntu+1
03:11	Seveas	(and the countless hours of talk also count as good support)
=== G0SUB has seen ompaul being active since a long time
03:12	mako	alright.. i really need to run
03:12	ompaul	mako, is that a yes?
03:12	Seveas	bye!
03:12	Seveas	ompaul, it is
03:12	mako	yes, it's a yes
03:12	ompaul	cheers
03:12	mako	ompaul: i'd like to chat with you about gnubuntu stuff anyway.. i'll msgs you in a few hours
03:12	Bonzodog	ompaul: congrats from a fellow ubunyu user in Ireland
03:12	ompaul	mako, cool,
03:12	Seveas	Bonzodog, 2 more CC members need convincing
03:13	ogra	Bonzodog, still missing 2
03:13	Seveas	he's not theere yet
=== ompaul has a long way to go
03:13	mako	Seveas: can you send me the full log
03:13	Bonzodog	ah..
03:13	mako	?
03:13	Seveas	mako, yes
03:13	mako	Seveas: thanks!
03:13	Seveas	tonight-ish
03:13	mako	apologize for being much later than i thought iw as
03:13	Seveas	(I'm actually at work)
=== dolson is now known as dolzzzon
03:14	mako	:)
=== mako is off
=== segphault [n=chatzill@60.254.175.10] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== gnomefreak [n=gnomefre@adsl-221-44-64.rmo.bellsouth.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== Kamion_ [n=cjwatson@83.216.156.196] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:14	ogra	so we're waiting for Kamion and elmo ....
03:14	ogra	ah
03:14	Kamion	that school project looks like some fine work
03:14	Seveas	that school project is indeed impressive
03:15	Kamion	sorry, my router threw a wobbly there
03:15	Bonzodog	We could do with an Irish member
03:15	ompaul	Kamion_, it was a couple of days - I walked in and the kids had used the net and sitting on the whiteboard was Linux Is Cool
03:15	Bonzodog	the ubuntu-ie team is very small
=== hunger [n=tobias@p54A62C84.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== darkmatter [n=darkmatt@206-163-248-150.yktn.hsdb.sasknet.sk.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:15	ompaul	well Bonzodog I was there when it started but never saw it take off, talk with me later
03:16	Kamion	ompaul: heh, nice
03:16	Kamion	Bonzodog: I'm from Belfast, although don't live there any more
03:16	Seveas	\o/mpaul
=== Bonzodog lives in Galway
03:17	Kamion	anyway, I'm happy with Paul based on some pretty stonking advocacy work
03:17	Seveas	stonking?
03:17	ompaul	thanks Kamion
03:17	ompaul	Seveas, its +++
03:17	Kamion	did mako or elmo comment while I was out?
03:17	Kamion	Seveas: "very good"
03:17	Seveas	ah, thnks
03:17	Seveas	make acked
03:17	Seveas	mako*
03:17	Seveas	elmo has not yet commented
03:17	elmo	ack
03:17	Seveas	ok, he has
03:18	Seveas	congratz ompaul !
03:18	ompaul	thanks folks
03:18	Seveas	Go Irish, beat orangemen!
03:18	G0SUB	ompaul you rock!
03:18	Kamion	ompaul: BTW dapper should be better WRT building images without restricted on them and having them actually work
03:18	Bonzodog	congrats ompaul....
03:18	Kamion	I tweaked base-installer a bit recently
03:18	G0SUB	btw, I support Ted Walther in that we really need to put up a statue of elmo on the grounds of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute!
03:18	ogra	yay ompaul
03:18	ompaul	Kamion, thanks
03:18	^Odd^	~~~~~~~~Congrats ompaul~~~~~~~~~~~
03:18	^Odd^	^_^
03:18	Kamion	and I think we're done
03:18	Seveas	Any other business anyone?
03:18	Kamion	Any other business?
03:18	ompaul	Kamion, I'll have mako beat sense into me :)
=== Seveas hands mako ubotu's the ultra-lart-o-matic
03:19	Kamion	oh, one sec, I have something
03:19	ompaul	Seveas, no that would not humane
03:20	Kamion	Adam Conrad's on the proposed members list and is already in ubuntu-core-dev; I assume nobody minds if I just add him?
03:20	ogra	heh
03:20	Seveas	rofl
03:20	ogra	will he stop the buildds if you dont ?
03:20	Kamion	(or if I apply this policy to ubuntu-core-dev members in general)
03:20	ogra	so better do it :)
03:20	Seveas	Kamion, I see that as 'backlog'
03:20	Seveas	should simply be added
03:20	ogra	Kamion++
03:21	Kamion	done
03:21	Seveas	there's no doubt about their contributions
=== segphault [n=chatzill@60.254.175.10] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== chanakya [n=gaurav@61.17.123.187] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
03:21	Seveas	ok, anyone else?
03:21	Seveas	going once
03:21	Seveas	going twice
03:21	Seveas	SOLD! meeting over
</pre>
