{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=08&day=13&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Aug 13th 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* tyhicks
* micahg
* mdeslaur
* jjohansen
* sbeattie

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to the following individuals:
** Scott Kitterman (ScottK) provided a debdiff for precise for Calligra (LP: #1032934)
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Weekly role: triager
** Finish ever exanding list of MIR audits
** recruiting
** pending updates
** mdeslaur
** short week
** weekly role: happy place
** apport/!AppArmor work items before feature freeze
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** short week
** weekly role: community
** holiday backlog
** pending updates
** !AppArmor work items
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** webkit
** icedtea-web regression SRU for sbeattie
** patch piloting
** mozilla pre-testing
** tyhicks
** short week
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** couple small ecryptfs items
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor work items with sbeattie
** fix some bugs in the new locking rework
** other work items
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** There are a lot of merge opportunities for packages listed in http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/d2u/. Performing these updates is a great way to help Ubuntu and bolster your developer application.
** mdeslaur asked team to prioritize work items based on the fact that feature freeze is 1.5 weeks out

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-08-13-18.02.html
