{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

09:00	fschoep	Good morning everyone.
09:00	pitti	hi fschoep
09:00	imbrandon	heh
09:00	imbrandon	that was fast
09:00	mdz	hmm, fschoep needed to leave early and so wanted to go first
09:00	mdz	but I didn't think quite this early
09:00	imbrandon	haha
09:00	zul	morning
=== fschoep [n=franksch@adsl-dc-35cb8.adsl.wanadoo.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:01	mdz	fschoep: you wanted to go first, yes?
09:01	fschoep	No that was last time.
09:01	fschoep	I've got a long day ahead of me.
09:01	fschoep	But no problem anyway -
09:01	fschoep	Done:
09:01	fschoep	* wide-theme-selector: updated spec, can someone take a peek?
09:01	fschoep	* art-polish-human-icons: finish list of icons that need work
09:01	fschoep	Ongoing:
09:01	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-login-manager, ubuntu-art-login-splash, ubuntu-art-usplash, ubuntu-art-wallpaper: cull proposals, choose direction
09:01	fschoep	* art-polish-human-gtk-theme: identify areas for improvement, now with community backing till 10th of August
09:01	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-complete-highcontrast-icons, : find and document icons which need work
09:01	fschoep	In the spotlight this week:
09:01	fschoep	* several sound engineers joined the art mailing list, sounds like good news
09:01	fschoep	Questions from Theme Teams and community:
09:01	fschoep	* Are the Tango icons going to be included in Edgy by default?
=== zakame [n=zakame@ubuntu/member/zakame] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:02	mdz	fschoep: have you heard from kwwii?
09:02	zakame	hi all
09:02	fschoep	two times this week, regarding Wiesbaden and media artwork.
09:02	fschoep	I haven't heard him about (not) attending this meeting though.
09:02	mdz	fschoep: do you have an idea when artwork will start to land in edgy?
09:02	fschoep	Yes, sure.
09:03	fschoep	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/EdgyArtworkPlan
09:03	mdz	fschoep: starting this week then?
09:04	fschoep	Not really. It's a bit more complicated - shall I elaborate here?
09:04	mdz	no, please mail
09:04	mdz	thanks fschoep
09:04	fschoep	Anyone else interested?
09:04	mdz	sfllaw: next
09:04	dholbach	fschoep: you can include me in the loop
09:04	fschoep	Can someone please answer whether or not Tango icons are included by default in Edgy?
09:05	rodarvus	fschoep, please CC me
09:05	mdz	sfllaw: hello?
09:05	dholbach	fschoep: Mark made the decision last time, but let's move the discussion to #ubuntu-devel or something
09:05	rodarvus	I'm interested to hear to pass information to edubuntu artowrk
09:05	Kamion	on my way, just charging through the excess scrollback I have here - had to pick up the child from his dad's
09:05	rodarvus	s/$/team/
09:05	fschoep	dholbach:, rodarvus: check
09:06	mdz	fschoep: just send to -devel so everyone is in the loop
09:06	ogra	fschoep, me too please (edubuntu)
09:06	Kamion	(made it)
09:06	ogra	even better
09:06	fschoep	mdz: ogra: check
09:06	mdz	sfllaw: if you fell asleep in your chair, ping when you wake up
09:06	mdz	rodarvus: next
09:07	rodarvus	Done:
09:07	rodarvus	  * Finished update of X.Org video drivers
09:07	rodarvus	  * Mucho work on X bugs (mainly xorg-server & drivers + escalated support bugs)
09:07	rodarvus	  * Large Edubuntu/OLPC Administrativia
09:07	rodarvus	  * Investigated X.Org patches from Fedora (turned out to be not so many, but at least half a dozen apper to be quite valuable)
09:07	rodarvus	ToDo:
09:07	rodarvus	  * More bugs
09:07	rodarvus	  * Finish implementation of fully-automatic-swap-server
09:07	rodarvus	  * Work on OLPC if time permits
09:07	mdz	rodarvus: X has settled out OK on my hardware;  is there much more on your todo list there?
09:07	rodarvus	X.Org transition is basically completed, barriing known bugs
09:07	mdz	ok
09:08	rodarvus	mdz, I have about two or three more bugx on xorg-srever
09:08	rodarvus	and two nasty font-related bugs
09:08	rodarvus	more stuff for drivers, but these are really hard to track
09:08	mdz	thanks rodarvus
09:08	rodarvus	thank you
09:08	mdz	rodarvus: best to get the driver bugs forwarded upstream
09:08	mdz	ogra: next
09:08	rodarvus	*nods*
09:09	ogra	* this-week:
09:09	ogra	- setting up ltsp lab
09:09	ogra	- started thinclient-local-devices
09:09	ogra	- started student-control-panel-completion
09:09	ogra	- move done ! (only need to find my stuff in this 100s of boxes now)
09:09	ogra	- screensaver for dapper-updates
09:09	ogra	* next-week:
09:09	ogra	- knot2 (or point release ?)
09:09	ogra	- hunting ltsp bugs
09:09	ogra	- more thinclient-local-devices
09:09	ogra	- student-control-panel-completion
09:09	ogra	* specs:
09:09	ogra	- student-control-panel-completion: (waiting for approval, started)
09:09	ogra	- ltsp-daily-image-tarballs: (in progress, needs spec additions (to be discussed with elmo))
09:09	ogra	- ltsp-convergence: (no progress)
09:09	ogra	- ltsp-netboot-enhancement: (no progress)
09:09	ogra	- thinclient-local-devices (started)
09:09	Kamion	ogra: knot2/point-release> both, I hope ...
09:10	ogra	i'd like to mention that i'll likely be in michigan in sept for a ltsp hackfest for ltsp-convergence
09:10	ogra	Kamion, ugh ...
09:10	ogra	thats haevy testing stuff
09:10	mdz	ogra: ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration?
09:10	ogra	*heavy
09:10	ogra	whoops, lost in the c&p
09:10	Kamion	ogra: noted, but probably needs to be done anyway; I don't plan to do them on the same day or anything!
09:10	ogra	ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration (not started yet)
09:10	mdz	ogra: LP says Started
09:11	ogra	well, i have some code, but its not in yet and i didnt work further one it
09:11	ogra	*on
09:11	mdz	ok, so not resumed yet ;-)
09:11	ogra	(started in dapper)
09:11	ogra	yeah :)
09:11	mdz	thanks ogra
09:11	mdz	mvo: next
09:11	mvo	Did:
09:11	mvo	- Summer of code mentoring
09:11	mvo	- 3rd party software stuff
09:11	mvo	- update-manager work:
09:11	mvo	  * initial dist-upgrader version for dapper->edgy
09:11	mvo	  * display where a update comes from [update-manager-edgy]
09:11	mvo	- gnome-app-install work:
09:11	mvo	  * rewrote the desktop/icon extraction to better support kde and re-run it on the archive
09:12	mvo	  * profiling/caching (not that much progress yet)
=== sivang [i=sivan@ubuntu/member/sivang] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:12	mvo	- misc (gksu, apt-listchange, lp)
09:12	mvo	- send translated-package-descriptions custom launchpad upload script to cprov for inclusion (available on dogfood already) [apt-ddtp]
09:12	mvo	- uploaded new software-properties that implementes "easy-popcon-pariticipation" (via Statistics tab)
09:12	mvo	Will do:
09:12	mvo	- more 3rd party software (press-release pending)
09:12	mvo	-  look into what aptitudes needs to natively work with the new apt auto-remove
09:12	mvo	- gnome-app-install work (speedup, more popcon support)
=== seb128 [n=seb128@ubuntu/member/seb128] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:12	seb128	hi
=== pitti hugs seb128
09:12	ogra	mdz, oh, sorry o also forgot about SoC, willowng had its first upload
=== seb128 hugs pitti
09:12	ogra	s/o/i/
=== dholbach hugs seb128
09:13	mdz	mvo: ok, great, thanks
=== seb128 hugs dholbach
09:13	mvo	thank you
09:13	mdz	pitti: next
09:13	pitti	Done:
09:13	pitti	* security updates: thunderbird/enigmail, gnupg, tiff
09:13	pitti	* automated-problem-reports:
09:13	pitti	  - discussed UI frontend with mpt, who gave me a complete redesign which is really pleasing now (thank you!)
09:13	pitti	  - implemented new UI design, uploaded
09:13	pitti	  - backend is BLOCKED: needs changed kernel implementation of crash dump helper calling
09:13	pitti	* pkg-create-dbgsym: deployed on the buildds and active during package builds; fixed a few bugs which caused FTBFS (.ddebs are thrown away ATM, though)
09:13	sfllaw	mdz: Ping.
09:13	pitti	* interviewed security engineer applicants; very good candidates amongst them, yay!
09:13	pitti	* for the record, the mysterious apt-ftparchive failure on the daily langpacks several times is fixed now
09:13	pitti	* built and tested fresh re-based dapper langpacks
09:13	pitti	* misc: new g-v-m, better cdbs-edit-patch,
09:13	pitti	To Do:
09:13	pitti	* automated-problem-reports: some UI polish, discuss update-notifier fixes with mvo, discuss KDE frontend with Riddell
09:13	mdz	sfllaw: everything ok?
09:13	pitti	* pkg-create-dbgsym: discussion with infinity about cowboying .ddebs to a public inofficial place
09:13	pitti	* more security updates, as always
09:13	pitti	mvo: will you have some time today/tomorrow to discuss the update-notifier stuff?
09:14	mvo	pitti: yes, that should be possible
09:14	sfllaw	mdz: Chair sleeppage.
09:14	mdz	pitti: is there a straightforward way to test/demo a-p-r?
09:14	sfllaw	It's pretty early over here.
09:14	pitti	mdz: apt-get install apport-gtk
09:14	pitti	mdz: and then have something crash
09:14	pitti	mdz: I just noticed that 0.5 with the new UI FTBFSed, fixing right now (missing build-dep)
09:14	mdz	pitti: will kill -SEGV work?
09:14	pitti	mdz: but the UI in 0.3 works as well
09:14	seb128	pitti: still no bt though?
09:15	pitti	mdz: yes, it will
09:15	pitti	right, no backtraces
09:15	pitti	<pitti>   - backend is BLOCKED: needs changed kernel implementation of crash dump helper calling
09:15	mdz	pitti: maybe a call for testing with instructions would be good
09:15	pitti	I discussed this with BenC, but I'm not sure whether he needs more discussion
09:15	pitti	mdz: I intended to do that once it actually works
09:16	mdz	pitti: yes, hmm, sounds like it's not straightforward to test/demo at this point because it won't work :-)
09:16	pitti	mdz: well, you'll get a report with all information but a backtrace
09:16	mdz	pitti: is there a timeline for .ddeb support in soyuz?
09:16	pitti	mdz: I did not get a timeline from the soyuz guys
09:16	mdz	pitti: oh, so the hook works and launches the app, but it can't get the stack?
09:16	pitti	but PPA and security are higher on the list
09:17	pitti	mdz: right
09:17	pitti	mdz: mainly because gdb cannot attach to the crashed process, since that is in deep kernel sleep
09:17	mdz	pitti: is there a spec in LP for .ddebs so that we can track it?
09:17	pitti	mdz: it's a design problem right now, I have a better design now
09:17	pitti	mdz: not right now (spec)
09:17	pitti	when I discussed that with the LP guys, they said they don't need one
09:18	pitti	but maybe it's better to create one
09:18	mdz	pitti: that seems odd; it would be good to have it on their roadmap
09:18	mdz	but ok
09:18	mdz	pitti: thanks
09:18	mdz	sfllaw: next
09:18	sfllaw	Done
09:18	sfllaw	* Test plan for QuietenGrub
09:18	sfllaw	* Talked with BenC about kernel crash dumps and kprobes
09:18	sfllaw	* Hug day
09:18	sfllaw	* Bug triaging
09:18	sfllaw	* Talked to nags about LDTP.  Got cr3 involved in this
09:18	sfllaw	To do
09:18	sfllaw	* More test plans
09:18	sfllaw	* Bug triaging
09:18	sfllaw	* Talk with Kamion
09:18	sfllaw	* Help zul get involved with test plans
09:18	sfllaw	* Teach MOTUs how to bug triage with a course on Friday
09:19	Kamion	our timezones/free-times have not synced up well, sorry - let's try early evening my time / morning your time
09:19	mdz	sfllaw: talk with Kamion about what?
09:19	Kamion	revive-tasksel testing
09:19	mdz	ah
09:20	mdz	sfllaw: ok, thanks
09:20	sfllaw	Welcome.
09:20	mdz	Kamion: next
09:20	Kamion	Done:
09:20	Kamion	  dapper-point-release-process: SPARC fixes done; David Miller is testing them. Still trying to get the images down to size. Unapproved queue holding steady. Should be ready to start widespread testing today or so.
09:20	Kamion	  ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: First cut at backend component done; it can build a correct-looking cache of what partman thinks of the partition layout, and it should be able to create, edit, and delete partitions. Seems to validate general approach.
09:20	Kamion	  migration-assistant: Reviewed various chunks of work from my Google Summer of Code student, and uploaded the first packages to universe.
09:20	mdz	fschoep: could you email kwwii and find out what happened?
09:20	Kamion	  ubiquity: Rewrote localechooser's encoding handling to clear up bugs like #47742 (carried over from previous weeks).
09:21	Kamion	Blocked:
09:21	Kamion	  revive-tasksel: Still waiting for Soyuz deployment before final sign-off.
09:21	fschoep	mdz: sure, no problem
09:21	Kamion	To do:
09:21	Kamion	  ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Next step is to glue a plain partition list display and a few buttons onto the front of this. Will need to handle resizing in the backend soon as well.
09:21	Kamion	  dapper-point-release-process: Do all the rest of it ...
09:21	fschoep	mdz: Not sure if I can get instant replies though.
09:21	Kamion	sort of a short week this week - meeting schedule meant it was only four days between meetings, and I was away for two of those
09:22	dholbach	will the sparc fixes be about bug 50778 too?
09:22	Ubugtu	Malone bug 50778 in Ubuntu "Installer (partitioner) fails on Sun T2000 rev. 2" [Untriaged,Unconfirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/50778
09:22	mdz	fschoep: wasn't expecting an instant response
09:22	Riddell	mdz, fschoep: kwwii said he was away until distro sprint, no answer on his phone so I guess he's left already
09:22	mdz	Riddell: ah
09:22	fschoep	Riddell: I thought he was leaving on the tenth?
09:22	Kamion	dholbach: not to my knowledge, no
09:22	mdz	Kamion: ok, thanks
09:22	Riddell	fschoep: not sure, didn't get a date, I could be wrong
09:22	mdz	Riddell: next
09:22	mvo	Kamion: will the point release most likely happen this or next week?
09:22	dholbach	Kamion: somebody in GNOME land told me about that one
09:23	Riddell	done: KDE 3.5.4, HAL changes for 3.5.4, langpacks-desktopfiles-kde, trying out pyqt 4 (preparation for kubuntu-hwdb-client)
09:23	fschoep	mdz: Riddell: I'll try to find out and report back soon.
09:23	Kamion	mvo: this, I hope
09:23	Riddell	next week: catch up with some community contributions on kubuntu-laptop-buttons, kubuntu-power-management, kubuntu-system-settings-usability.  mvo's pyKDE konsole patch
09:24	dholbach	Riddell: some guys asked for an exception for cmake (to make kde4 happen) - is kde4 somehow a target for edgy?
09:24	pitti	ah, right, we need to sanitize the hal mount scripts
09:24	mdz	Riddell: of your other specs, how many of those should still be targeting edgy?  are you working on them all personally or are some of them other people's projects?
09:24	Riddell	mdz: the ones mentioned in "next week" all have other people working on them
09:24	mdz	Riddell: are the ones you mention above being worked on primarily by others?
09:24	mdz	Riddell: could you update LP to reflect that?
09:25	mdz	right now they're all assigned to you
09:25	Riddell	dholbach: it's hoped that we'll have the build tools for it (so kde developers will all use kubuntu :)
=== Amaranth [n=travis@ubuntu/member/amaranth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Burgundavia [n=corey@ubuntu/member/burgundavia] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:25	Riddell	mdz: ok
09:25	dholbach	Riddell: nice, i told them to proceed with the upload.
09:25	mdz	Riddell: also, langpacks-desktopfiles-kde is status Unknown in LP
09:26	doko	Riddell: will we demote qt3 for edgy to universe?
09:26	Riddell	mdz: it's done bar some final testing and rebuilding all of KDE, I'll update that too
09:26	Riddell	doko: no, nowhere close to that
09:26	mdz	Riddell: ok, thanks
09:26	mdz	dholbach: next
09:26	dholbach	Done
09:26	dholbach	    * GNOME 2.14.3 (dapper-udpates)
09:26	dholbach	    * Bug Triage
09:26	dholbach	    * Hug Day
09:26	dholbach	    * galago uploads done, gossip begun to use it, beagle somewhat unhappy with it (will look at it some more)
09:26	dholbach	To do
09:26	dholbach	    * more Bug Triage
09:27	dholbach	    * GNOME 2.15.91 (next week)
09:27	dholbach	    * more MOTU love (get a REVU day done, more easier-motuing
09:27	dholbach	)
09:28	mdz	dholbach: oh, the bug day already happened? I thought it was tomorrow for some reason
09:28	mdz	did we recruit anyone new for ubuntu-qa?
09:28	imbrandon	yesterday ;)
09:28	dholbach	it was yesterday and it was quite good, especially http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/BugState
=== zul [n=chuck@CPE0006258ec6c1-CM000a73655d0e.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:28	zul	whoops
09:29	dholbach	quite a bunch of people worked on GNOME bugs and cleaned up some old ones - I'm quite happy with that
09:29	Amaranth	so that's why random people were closing alacarte bugs :)
09:29	imbrandon	and 3 or 4 of us on KDE bugs ;)
09:29	dholbach	(and new people joined in the bug triage as well) - the notice was just a bit short
09:29	mdz	the bug stats look fairly flat
09:29	mdz	I guess that's from the scale
09:30	sfllaw	mdz: I was hoping for a differences graph.
09:30	sfllaw	That would be more significant.
09:30	seb128	sfllaw: any luck you give an hand on desktop bugs maybe? :)
09:30	dholbach	desktop bugs are really tough, i can't seem to get below 300 un-answered mails
09:30	mdz	sfllaw: that should be doable in cricket; talk to stub
09:30	seb128	same for me
09:30	doko	dholbach: that page is more like gnome bugs ...
=== Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:31	dholbach	doko: it's the page of the desktop team :)
09:31	doko	dholbach: how do I add packages to the desktop team? ;-P
09:31	seb128	doko: you don't :p
09:31	dholbach	doko: don't even think about it
09:31	mdz	sfllaw: sounds like seb128 and dholbach could use some hands-on assistance in the trenches
09:31	seb128	yep, really
09:32	mdz	dholbach: thanks
09:32	dholbach	mdz: de rien
09:32	mdz	Keybuk: next
09:32	Keybuk	Done:
09:32	Keybuk	* ReplacementInit; continuing work, had some problems this week with testing and have sadly found that rebooting workstation works the best
09:32	Keybuk	* BootMessageLogging: decided how to handle jobs that do require a real console
09:32	Keybuk	To do:
09:32	Keybuk	* Two days off
09:32	Keybuk	* Further development work
09:33	mdz	Keybuk: rebooting your workstation works better than using a different machine?
09:33	Keybuk	yeah
09:33	Keybuk	different machine means copying modified source over, rebuilding it there, and rebooting that
09:33	Keybuk	it was ... annoying
09:34	mdz	Keybuk: is boot-message-logging Started then, or not yet?
09:34	Keybuk	somewhere between limbo and started
09:34	mdz	ok
09:34	mdz	thanks Keybuk
09:34	Keybuk	I'm not convinced what I have is the right implementation
09:34	mdz	seb128: next
09:34	seb128	This week:
09:34	seb128	- load of bugs triaged
09:34	seb128	- GNOME 2.14.3 and some desktop fixes for dapper-updates
09:34	seb128	.
09:34	seb128	Next week:
09:34	seb128	- catching up with mails and SoC lag
09:34	seb128	- GNOME 2.15.91
09:34	seb128	- keep triaging bugs, load and load of them still to work on
09:35	seb128	.
09:35	seb128	Note:
09:35	seb128	- would be nice to announce useful things for the team by a mail. By example I was sort of expecting that we would get a mail about something like 6.06.1 some weeks before it (we really figured about it from what Colin said to the previous meeting). Other example: dapper-proposed, looks something useful to me and I only learnt about it some days ago because doko and pitti was speaking on IRC about it
09:35	mdz	seb128: is the bug volume still so high since dapper?
09:35	seb128	mdz: yep, doesn't go down
09:36	mdz	hmm, I didn't think -proposed actually existed/worked yet
09:36	seb128	I've not caught up since my week of vac, paris summit, guadec
09:36	Kamion	mdz: doko's been uploading to it, seems to work
09:36	seb128	my "unread" (ie: to reply to) count is around 300
09:36	dholbach	To me it seems that the amount of new bugs is the same, but the noise is less.
09:36	Kamion	we didn't actually know it worked until doko tried, though
09:36	doko	seb128: dapper-proposed is mentioned in some spec (I think dapper-point-one-release), but I agree, it's hard to find these (like display of the NEW queue in lp)
09:36	mdz	sfllaw: please help them out and see if you can recruit some ongoing help as well.  maybe the three of you could put together a call for help to -devel-announce?
09:37	seb128	doko: you don't expect everybody reading every spec in case something useful is hidding there? :p
09:37	ogra	-proposed was announced anywhere (fridge ? )
09:37	ogra	i think in the ubuntu news ...
09:37	mdz	Kamion: are there packages in there which need review for the point release?
09:37	seb128	I would really have liked to have 6.06.1 announce early though
=== mvo agrees with seb128
09:37	Kamion	I think for the moment it's best to use -proposed only for carefully-selected things; I'm not quite sure about the workflow yet
09:37	seb128	I would have organized desktop fixing some other way around and worked dapper fixes before edgy updates
09:38	mdz	we've talked about the point release fairly regularly; I thought everyone was aware
09:38	seb128	speaking on IRC is sort of not really formal
09:38	Kamion	mdz: openoffice.org and kin
09:38	seb128	I didn't realize it was NOW until the comments from Kamion previous week
09:38	mdz	seb128: agreed, for folks who only follow the lists it probably  seemed like short notice
09:38	seb128	I didn't even know for sure we were rolling new CD images
09:39	Kamion	that's the whole point :-)
09:39	seb128	might be my fault too, but too many lists, IRC chans, wiki, etc to follow ... have proper announce mails is nice for informations like that
09:39	mdz	we should announce the target date more in advance next time, so that everyone can get in proposals for updates
09:39	seb128	thank you
09:39	mdz	Kamion: add a note to DapperPointReleaseProcess about that?
09:39	mvo	is there a second point release planed?
09:40	Kamion	mdz: ok, will do
09:40	mdz	mvo: of dapper you mean?  that's unclear
09:40	Kamion	mvo: in principle, but no schedule
09:40	imbrandon	over three years i'm sure there will be a few mvo
09:40	mvo	is was wondering if I should try to upload a pending notification-daemon fix
09:40	mvo	but I'm a bit concerned that it is now way too short
09:40	Kamion	uploading dapper updates meeting the usual criteria is valuable even if they miss the point release
09:40	mvo	and it won't get enough testing
09:40	mdz	mvo: don't rush it to try to make this point release; users will still download updates
09:41	Kamion	but yes, now isn't the best time for things which need lots of testing
=== mvo nods
09:41	mdz	thanks seb128
09:41	mdz	doko: next
09:41	doko	- this week
09:41	doko	  - openoffice.org 2.0.3: done for dapper-proposed and edgy, ia32-libs updates for dapper-proposed and edgy
09:41	doko	  - edgy-toolchain: benchmarking/testing the -mtune=generic patches using the pystone benchmark.
09:41	doko	  - java-roadmap: ecj-bootstrap update, merging the classpath 0.92 release branch to the trunk, upload of a first gcj-4.2 package building gcjwebplugin-4.2; first attempt to merge the FC backport of classpath-0.92 to gcc-4.1
09:41	doko	  - other: ia32-libs updates for -security
09:41	doko	  - learned that OOo doesn't belong to the desktop
09:41	doko	- next week
09:41	doko	  - decide if OOo 2.0.3 gets included in the dapper point release
09:41	doko	  - java-roadmap: merge some more packages from main (requesting UVF exceptions).
09:41	doko	  - python-roadmap: updates of the application packages in main to the new policy; packages providing modules are done.
09:41	doko	  - python2.5: 2.5 beta3 update
09:41	doko	  - updating one or two machines to edgy
09:41	doko	- other: time frame for the testing / experimental buildd's?
09:41	Kamion	doko: 2.0.3> where "next week" is "today" I hope
09:42	mdz	doko: "doesn't belong to the desktop"?
09:42	doko	Kamion: yes, or tomorrow. we need to check the CD sizes as well.
=== pitti thinks that a huge package like OO.o would really make sense on the CDs
09:42	Kamion	doko: today please
09:43	doko	mdz: nah, the desktop team sees the desktop without OOo, nothing more. missed a :-/, :-(, ;-)
09:43	mdz	OOo doesn't play very nicely with the rest of the desktop :-P
09:43	doko	Kamion: ok, is there an easy way to do that?
09:43	dholbach	doko: OOo and firefox are ... projects of their own ;)
09:44	mdz	Kamion: have you heard from Ian recently?
09:44	Kamion	doko: -> #ubuntu-devel after meeting
09:44	Kamion	mdz: hmm, no, shall I phone him?
09:44	mdz	Kamion: no, I'll mail
09:44	doko	dholbach: no, we're doing *one* desktop, IMHO we should not transport this view to the users
09:44	doko	Kamion: ok
09:45	mdz	and BenC as well
09:45	seb128	doko: we don't have the manpower to not special case firefox and openoffice
09:45	mdz	did I miss anyone?
09:45	zul	me..
09:45	seb128	doko: dholbach and I are already over bug-worked without those
09:45	mdz	zul: sorry, ready
09:45	mdz	?
09:45	doko	mdz: are you ok with the upload of the -mtune-generic backport to edgy?
09:45	zul	Done:
09:45	zul	* xen testing with iwj
09:45	zul	* xen bug hunting
09:45	zul	* release xen on to the mases
09:45	zul	Todo:
09:45	zul	* xen amd64 get it working properly
09:45	zul	* kernel updates
09:45	zul	* grub triaging and bug fixing
09:45	mdz	zul: is xen suitable for casual experimentation now?
09:46	zul	yes it is
09:46	mdz	doko: I'm not familiar with that change; do I have mail about it?
09:46	zul	i was running it on my edgy workstation at work
09:46	mdz	zul: is there a basic howto of some sort?
09:46	zul	on the wiki
09:46	zul	Done:
09:46	doko	mdz: yes, the email exchange with Maxim ("what gcc version ...")
09:47	mdz	doko: if you are satisfied with the performance testing (no serious regressions), yes
09:47	zul	mdz: i probably need to update the howto as well
09:47	mdz	doko: max suggested testing on the machine that Ben has
09:47	mdz	zul: what's the name of the page?
09:47	doko	mdz: what machine does Ben have?
09:48	zul	XenOnEdgy i believe
09:48	zul	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenOnEdgy
09:48	mdz	doko: I forget the codename for it; Ben will be able to tell you
09:49	mdz	zul: thank you
09:49	mdz	anyone else have more updates or questions?
09:50	mdz	ok, finished ahead of schedule then
09:50	mdz	thanks everyone
09:50	dholbach	yoohoo! :)
=== mdz yawns
=== crimsun [n=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
09:50	doko	mdz: what the test build daemons? private package archives?
09:50	sfllaw	dholbach, seb128: I will rally the troops to help you out.
09:50	mdz	doko: testing the performance
09:50	sfllaw	Let me know if you want any specific wording in the announcement.
=== heno [n=henrik@henrik.gotadsl.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:51	seb128	sfllaw: thank you ;)
=== ranf [n=ralfm@dslb-084-058-150-201.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:51	doko	mdz: if you need a tester, I'd like to start with some python2.5 work on it
09:51	mdz	heno: good morning, we've just wrapped up but most of us are still around listening if you have an update prepared
=== imbrandon [n=brandon@ubuntu/member/pdpc.active.imbrandon] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
09:51	zul	sfllaw: when do you want to sit down and talk? obviously not now
09:52	heno	mdz: on the wiki, are we pasting?
09:52	Amaranth	where is the wiki that has all the bulleted lists that people were pasting in here?
09:52	mdz	heno: yes
09:53	Hobbsee	Amaranth: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20060803
09:53	heno	Done
09:53	heno	* catch up on mail, mailing lists and [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=145 support forum] .
09:53	heno	* Community: Held Ubuntu Access BOF at LUG Radio Live. Working with AT consultants WRT the [http://www.oatsoft.org/ OATS project] .
09:53	heno	* Magnification - work on compiz-mag is still mostly stagnant. Will focus on gnome-mag for edgy, where upstream is now making performance improvements with COMPOSITE.
09:53	heno	* Desktop speech synthesis - Orca, our chosen screen reader, has also been accepted by Gnome as the default. Waiting for result of main inclusion request to proceed with seed change.
09:53	heno	* sok: steady progress, packages available. Reads keyboard layout from xkb and uses the current layout (optional).
09:53	heno	To do
09:53	heno	* On Tuesday I'm attending the launch meeting of the OATS (Open Source Assistive Technology Software) project in London.
09:53	heno	* sok: setup bzr hosting for on LP and get help on adding it to universe. Continue to work with Chris on outstanding features like config panel and 'scanning'.
09:53	heno	* Desktop speech synthesis - Some testers are reporting problems with AT-SPI in Gnome 2.15/Edgy. Needs investigation.
09:53	heno	* livecd-access - no change - I need feedback on the proposed gfxboot changes. (sound and image files [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Specs/LiveCdAccess here] ).
09:53	sfllaw	zul: Too early.
09:53	sfllaw	zul: Tomorrow, please?
09:53	heno	hm, that didn't paste too well with the links
09:54	zul	sfllaw: sure...im going back to bed now
09:54	sfllaw	zul: Or rather, later today.  Same here.
09:54	mdz	heno: that's ok, thanks
09:54	mdz	heno: you were at LRL on the first day I guess? i was there the second day
09:54	Kamion	sorry, I've been doing a million and one things as usual, will try to get to gfxboot review before I go on holiday if possible
09:55	heno	just the first day, yes, mdz
09:55	heno	Kamion: thanks, just let me know if I've got the file formats right and such
09:55	heno	in case I have to redo any of it
=== cbx33 [n=c2df514b@ubuntu/member/cbx33] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:56	zul	night everyone
09:56	pitti	thanks everyone

</pre>
