{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
03:01	Kamion	ok, mdz will not be able to make this meeting due to Thanksgiving, so he asked JaneW and me to run it
03:01	JaneW	we are not sure if that will be possible, but if we get the stutus updates fed in we should be able to
03:02	JaneW	I thought if I can get to a design that works we can show that to the LP team and ask for it from LP
03:02	Kamion	we're missing daniels, jdub, krstic
=== zakame [n=zak@ubuntu/member/zakame] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:02	JaneW	sivang: yes the agenda is the same each week, we run through the group and get stutus updates in a set format, as per e-mail yesterday
03:02	Kamion	it's late Australian time, and krstic has other commitments, so I doubt we'll get any more
03:02	fabbione	Kamion: and BenC.. he is thanksgiving too
03:03	JaneW	daniels won;t be here, he sent appologies and a breif update to me
03:03	Kamion	fabbione: I'm just looking at /names at the moment
03:03	JaneW	not sure if jdub is intended to attend these../
03:03	JaneW	?
03:03	Kamion	JaneW: probably not, he isn't distro team
03:03	JaneW	nod
03:03	dholbach	i pinged him, just in case... but don't know if he's awake
03:04	sivang	Kamion: you mean, he's no longer on distro-team ?
03:04	Keybuk	sivang: jdub never has been
03:04	sivang	Keybuk: ah :) ok
03:04	Kamion	so, we'll run through people in alphabetical order by nick, per JaneW's request; please give a short summary for each spec you have assigned (you should have this pre-prepared)
03:04	infinity	JaneW : I object to being at the top of the spreadsheet, otherwise it was fine. :)
03:04	pitti	sivang: he's the Canonical motivation team :)
03:04	Kamion	BenC is on vacation
03:04	sivang	pitti: hehe, cool
03:04	Kamion	daniels sent apologies
03:04	Kamion	dholbach: ?
03:05	infinity	Kamion : alphabetical by nick, or by LP username (since that's how the spreadsheet is ordered)?
03:05	JaneW	infinity you aren't anymore ;P
03:05	dholbach	power-management-configuration: mjg59 came up with a new plan (dbus authentication mechanism for restricting the use of power management functionalities); I'll nail down the missing bits for writing the spec together with him (along with time estimates); together with hughsie, I'll discuss the UI ideas we had.
03:05	dholbach	inclusion-of-docs: in my SleeplessNightBOF last night, I packaged new ubuntu-docs from docteam's SVN (didn't upload yet), fixed some bugs in it (the doc team moved some directories around and didn't register there new docs in Rosetta), however, there are files missing still. i will have a session with mdke tonight, to get things right and regular updates going. (although translations will have to wait).
03:05	JaneW	BenC is forst now
03:05	dholbach	best-practices-bugs: we made some additions to the HelpingWithBugs pages and we're running the HUG DAY momentarily, which is just great.
03:05	JaneW	first even
03:05	Kamion	infinity: let's do it by nick this time or I'll get lost.
03:05	dholbach	work: this week (today and tomorrow), c++ allocator change, BUG DAY, writing down a11y meeting notes, ubuntu-docs updating
03:05	dholbach	work: next week: gnome-power spec'ing, more c++ allocator change, a11y spec'ing with hno73, getting the wiki up to scratch, bug triage (of course), motu mentoring
03:05	JaneW	infinity: from this week it is ordered by nick
03:05	Diziet	Firefox: finished merging, not everything works right yet.  I will pick this up again in another few days after I've got some other stuff out of the way.
03:05	Diziet	AutomatedTesting: discussions in Debian going reasonably well; will carry on probably for another week.
03:05	Diziet	Launchpad SSLCertificateAuthentication: some progress made yesterday; this will fail or succeed by tomorrow
03:05	Diziet	DeveloperDocumentation: I will pick this up next week I think
03:05	Diziet	Email and bug backlog: horrendous
03:05	Diziet	Other goals: not started
03:05	Kamion	dholbach: thanks
03:05	Diziet	Sorry, was I premature ?
03:06	Kamion	no, that's ok
=== zakame [n=zak@ubuntu/member/zakame] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
03:06	Kamion	Diziet: is firefox working well enough now that it can be left alone for a few days, or do other people need to prod it?
03:06	JaneW	dholbach: were you done?
03:06	dholbach	JaneW: yes, i was
03:06	Diziet	Yes.  You can use it to browse web pages and I think you can even build against it.  If not then I'll fix it.
03:06	pitti	ffox works well enough for me at  least
03:07	Kamion	great, thanks
03:07	Kamion	doko: ?
03:07	pitti	has still some itches, but not too bad
03:07	doko	Kamion: please later, have still to summarize
=== WaterSevenUb [n=WaterSev@azevedo.astro.up.pt] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== JaneW offer pitti a tube of ointment
03:07	seb128	firefox works fine, not the same for stuff using it :)
03:07	Kamion	doko: ok, we'll do you last
03:07	Kamion	fabbione: ?
03:07	fabbione	ok i am next....
03:07	fabbione	* server-candy: progressing: MD5 checker core is ready (both server and client side). Client frontends need to be done. other stuff is waiting to complete the MD5 task. Community is growing slowly because we are still missing the mailing list and some kind of official announcement that i would like to do when the infrastructure is ready.
03:07	fabbione	* ubuntu-cluster: some pkgs have been already updated. others are being prepared.
03:07	fabbione	* installer-volume-management: partman-auto is ready and uploaded, merging partman-auto-lvm as we speak.
03:07	fabbione	* probe-for-root-filesystem: blocked.
03:07	fabbione	* boot-from-usb: blocked.
03:07	fabbione	* misc: monday have been out handling CD around (very positive). Dec 15th i will be on the other side of Denmark to give a talk in a company. working on merges and a bit of bug triaging.
03:07	fabbione	* next week: complete installer-volume-management and do server-candy work, together with merges.
03:08	pitti	blocked by?
03:08	mvo	apparently the pyhton binding of ff are borken right now :/
03:08	fabbione	pitti: blocks are tracked in LP
03:08	Kamion	yes, please list what you're blocked by so we have a record of who should be nagged
03:08	fabbione	Kamion: ok will do for the next time, but mainly is the new udev stuff
03:09	Keybuk	that only blocks the boot-time side of it
03:09	Keybuk	it doesn't block the modifications to d-i
=== JaneW can give daniel's update...
03:09	fabbione	Keybuk: and testing
03:09	Kamion	Keybuk: it's hard to test d-i changes correctly when the installed system doesn't work right; I concur with that being a blocker
03:09	fabbione	i don't like blind modifications if i can avoid them is better
03:10	Kamion	JaneW: go ahead
03:10	JaneW	ok this from daniels: done: finished RC2.
03:10	JaneW	blocked: nothing anymore
03:10	JaneW	tomorrow: fixing driver FTBFSes
03:10	JaneW	next week: on leave
03:10	JaneW	that's it
03:10	Keybuk	terse
03:10	infinity	JaneW : Note that the driver FTBFSs have become a large enough issue that I'm fixing them tonight.
03:11	infinity	(They're listed in my update...)
03:11	JaneW	infinity: ok
03:11	Kamion	we need to get something out of daniels on dbus-restarts at some point
03:11	Kamion	is anyone else involved with that?
03:11	pitti	uh, that's not really something for us, I guess
03:11	pitti	that spec is more like a proposal for upstream rather than a dapper spec
03:11	Kamion	I see; let's move on
03:12	Kamion	infinity: ?
03:12	pitti	upstream is completely against doing it
03:12	seb128	Kamion: as pitti said, we don't have a lot to do for that
03:12	Diziet	I thought we needed it for various stuff ?  And upstream are on crack.
03:12	JaneW	one sec
03:12	pitti	Diziet: right, but we can't patch against the world
03:12	JaneW	can the ppl who were listed as needing further discussions with mdz please indicate if those have actually happened yet AND
03:12	infinity	reducing-duplication: ongoing effort, as always, this last week saw good progress on kicking out multiple versions of libdb
03:12	infinity	initramfs-*: still waiting on keybuk to release his lock on initramfs for hardware activation
03:12	infinity	usplash-*: tested vga16fb changes to use a lower resolution, muddled with assembly in syslinux to make the same change for CD booting, need more testing
03:12	infinity	splash-down: Have a reasonable working implementation, will need to ping maintainers of display managers to hook things in correctly and coordinate uploads
03:12	infinity	general: helped with kernel security updates last week (l-r-m and linux-meta), need to get a new l-r-m and linux-meta in this week for the new kernel, spent plenty of time babysitting various components to make modular X buildable, currently polishing off most of that tonight, buildd tasks have been reasonably onerous this last week.
03:12	JaneW	let us know if you have a new need to set up time to talk to him
03:12	doko	infinity: any estimate for subversion?
03:13	ogra	infinity, ping me as well for ltsp display manager  please
03:13	infinity	doko : Mail me for SVN, if I have the reminder in my INBOX, I'll do it first thing tomorrow.
03:13	Kamion	JaneW: we're now part-way through people, so perhaps we can go back at the end and look through that
=== pitti would like to book infinity for php
03:13	JaneW	Kamion: sure, but if the rest will in the mean time..?
03:13	Kamion	ok
03:14	Kamion	jdub's away, so I'm next
03:14	Keybuk	didn't we just miss doko?
03:14	Kamion	ue-partitioning-tool: Making good progress with partman.deb; I expect to upload this early next week. UI work not started.
03:14	jbailey	Or I
03:14	Kamion	ubuntu-express-bootloader: First cut at parted parseable output patch done and sent upstream; I think it'll probably get merged, but if not I have a fallback plan. No other progress. Not blocked.
03:14	Kamion	ubuntu-express-base-system: Tollef's working on factoring out the keymapper widget; otherwise no progress.
03:14	Kamion	ubuntu-express-*, ue-*: No other progress. Semi-blocked on an svn2bzr bug that prevents me from importing the Guadalinex repository (sent to niemeyer).
03:14	Kamion	cd-bootloader: CD timeout restored. Upgraded to syslinux 3.11. Sent call for gfxboot testing to ubuntu-users.
03:14	Kamion	cd-build-process: Single-architecture rebuilds implemented.
03:14	Kamion	misc: Implemented installer rescue mode infrastructure to allow implementation of MD5 checker client side for server-candy. Did the big apt-setup merge, though not tested yet.
03:14	Kamion	jbailey: oh, sorry, I missed you
03:15	jbailey	Kamion: I'll go after, no big deal.
03:15	Mithrandir	Kamion: the keymapper widget is actually done now, but not uploaded.
03:15	pitti	Keybuk: doko wanted to be last
03:15	Kamion	of my meetings with mdz, I still need to have a chat about merge progress, CD blockers has become obsolete, Kubuntu CD builds has been done by deciding to bring Riddell into the cdimage group, and we haven't had the syncs discussion yet
03:15	Kamion	(the last needs elmo too)
03:16	Kamion	Mithrandir: in your bzr repository? if so, I'll have a look
03:16	Mithrandir	Kamion: no, not pushed.  I haven't that set up, really.  Will fix that
03:16	Kamion	ok, thanks
03:16	Kamion	jbailey: go ahead, then
03:16	jbailey	Specs: none, Nyaah
03:16	jbailey	* glibc: Patch in hand for sparc, hppa still needs love.
03:16	jbailey	After that: libc6-i386 for amd64, update to 2.3.6 and locale munging.  Those are just blocked on it working everywhere again.
03:16	jbailey	* linux-kernel-headers: Update to 2.6.15 coming RSN (partially started)
03:16	jbailey	* klibc/initramfs-tools: I'm happy with the hand off, and don't consider myself responsible for them anymore.
03:16	jbailey	I looked through and noticed yesterday that I still have grub asssigned to me for merging, I'll try to grab that tomorrow.
03:17	Kamion	jbailey: are we likely to merge glibc/l-k-h with Debian, or is that stalled for dapper?
03:17	JaneW	keybuk:?
03:17	jbailey	Kamion: Glibc will get merged as part of 2.3.6.  l-k-h isn't common with Debian.  I'm working on that on the Debian side.
03:17	Kamion	all right
03:17	Keybuk	JaneW: I was gonna wait until the questions stopped :)
03:18	Keybuk	udev-roadmap: mostly done.  rcS script needs polish and the whole thing needs a bit more testing.  grepmap is to be kept, and updated for input subsystem and libsane.  still got to sort out udeb.  waiting on 2.6.15-4
03:18	Keybuk	hardware-activation: no network or sound-card rules yet.  Kamion found a sweet way to replace cardmgr.
03:18	Keybuk	streamlined-boot: bootchart updated to 0.9.  readahead still todo.  mostly waiting on udev-roadmap to see what different that makes.
03:18	Keybuk	network-manager: largely no progress, discovered it doesn't seem to bring up wifi interfaces until a user logs in.  blocked on glibc dns patch.  might not be doable anyway.
03:18	Keybuk	misc: still to merge sysvinit, otherwise done 25.  found bug with dpkg's new conffile handing that I'll fix.  module-init-tools needs update to latest upstream and a patch that could break depmod (inputmap) on < 2.6.15
03:18	Keybuk	plans: finish up udev, have 1,000 bugs filed against me for everything I break, fix those, move on to streamlined-boot and network-manager
03:19	Kamion	if we could get the new udev world order in tomorrow so that we can have time to settle everything before Flight CD 2 becomes urgent, that would be much appreciated
03:19	infinity	Agreed.
03:19	Kamion	however I don't know how practical that is while BenC's on vacation
03:19	jbailey	Kamion: Timing for flight 2?
03:19	Riddell	is there a target date or flight 2?
03:19	Keybuk	yeah, with a good headwind and fair weather, I don't see why it couldn't go in today or tomorrow, except for the kernel block
03:19	Kamion	ideally, Flight CD releases are two weeks apart
03:20	Kamion	in some cases that may need to slip
03:20	Kamion	s/some/many/ quite probably :-/
03:20	Keybuk	it'll break some stuff, all known, but the major interp-dep components are almost ready
03:20	Kamion	but theoretically, doing Flight 2 next Thursday/Friday would be perfect
03:20	infinity	Keybuk : Given lrm work, your work, and BenC's new kernel upload required, I'd call Monday a good target for having all the new kernel/udev stuff settle.
03:21	Keybuk	agreed, the kernel is only a relatively soft blocker
03:21	Keybuk	I can upload udev/initramfs/etc. without it ... it'll just break a few people
03:21	Kamion	if that can be decoupled, all the better
03:21	Kamion	ok, krstic and mdz absent
03:21	Kamion	Mithrandir: ?
03:21	Mithrandir	livecd-performance: groundwork done, I can now get useful data out of the system.  Need to decide on further action to actually improve boot times.  Also, will get it into the default live cd  (togglable with a boot switch or similar) and call for testing.
03:21	Keybuk	and I can alleviate that with a u-d-a announce saying what's expected to break
03:21	Mithrandir	embedded-ubuntu: I discovered that I got this spec last night, hence no status update on it.
03:22	Mithrandir	network-authentication: Lots of interest around the spec, no work done on it so far.
03:22	Mithrandir	other: no progress on specs.  I've spent a fair amount of time helping Colin with cdebconf custom widgets, those still need to be uploaded.
03:22	Mithrandir	Next week: review embedded-ubuntu, Try to get media-integrity-check unblocked (so help Colin with the new syslinux, if he needs help) and implemented.  Go through the network-authentication spec and see what steps are needed to get it working, then start implementation.  Random other chaff which shows up.
03:22	Mithrandir	Blocked on: Colin for newer syslinux, volunteering to help.
03:22	Mithrandir	Rant: It's very annoying when priorites are shifted around without any kind of notification.  The live-cd-performance spec was high priority, hence I spent time on it, now it's suddenly medium priority without anybody having told me.  I was also made approved for embedded-ubuntu, without any notification.
03:22	Mithrandir	Until we use LP all the time and therefore see those kinds of things, notifications are needed.  They probably still will be needed then.
=== mvo agrees with Mithrandir rant
03:23	Kamion	I agree, we're well out of the time at UBZ when we were looking at our specs pages every day
03:23	JaneW	Mithrandir: I will try to keep the spreadhseet statuses up to date
03:23	JaneW	the colours will help to identify changes
03:23	Mithrandir	JaneW: spreadsheet statuses don't show up in my inbox. :-)
03:23	Kamion	Mithrandir: I'll chat to you about syslinux later; we have the simple menu in syslinux 3 now, but gfxboot is still to come
03:24	Kamion	JaneW: spreadsheets are far too hard to diff for changes
03:24	Mithrandir	Kamion: ok, cool.  I just need the menu stuff in order to be unblocked.
03:24	sivang	is it only me that has openoffice borked on his dapper? :)
03:24	pitti	JaneW: I'd rather get an email if something on my assigned/subscribed specs changes...
03:24	pitti	JaneW: just like wiki change emails
03:24	seb128	sivang: not the place
03:24	ogra	pitti++
03:24	Kamion	e-mail or IRC notifications about something being assigned to you would be appropriate
03:24	Mithrandir	Kamion: but I'll be happy to help out with other stuff that blocks you too.
03:24	Kamion	Mithrandir: thanks
03:24	sivang	seb128: sure, sorry
03:25	seb128	pitti: yeah, notification would be nice :)
03:25	JaneW	if I change statuses or assignees I will send out notificatio e-mails to parties concerened...
03:25	seb128	JaneW: thanks
03:25	Kamion	JaneW: thanks, that will be very helpful :-)
03:25	Kamion	mvo: you're up
03:25	Mithrandir	JaneW++
03:25	ogra	JaneW, that should really be a launchpad addon ...
03:25	mvo	Did:
03:25	mvo	* automatic removal of dependencies spec bounty prepared (got deferred in the end)  [Automatic removal of unused dependencies]
03:25	ogra	so you dont have extra work through it
=== luopio [n=abuser@b13.pekola27.ton.tut.fi] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:25	mvo	* pyhton-apt improvments (needed for unattended pkg upgrades, g-a-i, cmd-not-found magic)
03:25	mvo	* unattended upgrades script ready (in python-apt, need to be integrated into the APT::Periodic system  [Unattended package upgrades]
03:25	mvo	* gdebi (direct deb install tool) almost ready for upload into archive (needs new python-apt first) [Support for packages by
03:25	mvo	  third parties in external repos]
03:25	mvo	* cmd-not-found magic work with zyga (prototype in   pyhton ready, misses still some stuff) ["Sugest packages to install to proivde missing programs"]
03:25	mvo	* tried to make apt more smart about failed network    sources [Default apt sources.list configuration] -> might be used for [Improved handling of APT   cdrom: sources as well]
03:26	mvo	* other goals: not started
03:26	mvo	Will do:
03:26	mvo	* upload new apt/python-apt/gdebi + all depenencies (abi break)
03:26	mvo	* integrate unattended upgrades script into the APT::Periodic system
03:26	mvo	* 3rd party packages channel work
03:26	mvo	* use hide-admin-tools for update-notifier
03:27	seb128	mvo: hide admin tools for update notifier? what is that?
03:27	Kamion	mvo: let me know if/whenever you need installer-context testing of your apt changes
03:27	pitti	I'll come to that later, see my u-d mail
03:27	mvo	seb128: don't start update-notifier if the user can't run synaptic/apt/update-manager
03:27	seb128	oh, k
03:28	ogra	me ?
03:28	Kamion	ogra: yes
03:28	mvo	Kamion: I'm preparing a mail to deity@l.d.o first explaining my idea and the patch. it's unfortunately not a trivial change :/
03:28	ogra	* thin-client-sound: updated the spec (pending approval), started adopting the proof of concept in real code in my local bzr branch, discussed changes to gstreamer with pitti, updated the spec accordingly
03:28	ogra	* thin-client-local-devices: started some initial tests, ltspfs/ltspfsd cvs version uploaded and build, binary is in the archive
03:28	ogra	* thin-client-memory-usage: updated the spec (pending approval), did some further testing
03:28	ogra	* thin-client-faster-startup: updated the spec (pending approval)
03:28	ogra	* gnome-screensaver-default-image: started working on the package
03:28	mvo	Kamion: but thanks :)
03:28	ogra	* last weeks goals: 3 of 4 specs texts finished (pending approval), ltsp bzr archive is set up, renamed to ltsp/dapper on mdz's request, assembled a etherboot based client (not tested yet) to examine the etherboot problems often reported on #edubuntu, xscreensaver not completely finished yet (package ready but did not take the time to fully test it yet), edubuntu CD daily builds started, liveCD fs requested from lamont, should be ready the next da
03:28	ogra	ys
03:28	ogra	* next week plans: specs specs specs ... finishing the thin-client-local device spec and getting the rest approved, make the mdz requested changes to ldm in my bzr branch, implement the thin-client sound spec in my bzr branch, etherboot testing/fixing with the newly assembled etherboot client and writing a howto for edubuntu users, test the first liveCD ,finish up with xscreensaver (demote most of it (except shipped hacks) to universe), check chan
03:28	ogra	ges to gnome-screensaver lock dialog with upstream to make it look like the breezy one, get gnome-screensaver to main, fix merge bugs, preparing edubuntu for flight 2
=== sivang is assigned to home-user-backup, can I be excused as this spec seems not to be targetted for dapper?
03:29	sivang	(At least ATM)
03:29	Kamion	ogra: are we in a position where you can get enough testing together at short notice to do an Edubuntu Flight CD?
03:30	Kamion	I won't be able to help this time :)
03:30	ogra	Kamion, i can do most testing here, but i'll ping users on #edubuntu and the ML
03:30	Diziet	ogra: thinclient-local-devices> Does that mean you're implementing already ?  Or is this part of the drafting ?
03:30	ogra	the only missing bit is ppc install over here
03:30	Kamion	bearing in mind that the window of opportunity is generally quite small at this stage of the release cycle
03:30	ogra	Diziet, its still drafting ...
03:30	Diziet	Right.
03:30	Kamion	powerpc's still broken anyway unless the LTSP bug that broke the Edubuntu powerpc breezy release has been fixed
03:31	ogra	Diziet, and it will depend on the dbus changes
03:31	Diziet	dbus> Quite so.
03:31	ogra	Kamion, yes, but live should be fine
03:31	Kamion	ogra: so ltspfs/ltspfsd are just proof-of-concepts?
03:31	ogra	Kamion, nope, we planned to use them, but upstream will have to do changes
03:31	ogra	according to my tests
03:32	Kamion	ok, thanks
03:32	ogra	i'm in contact with scott balneaves who is upstream
03:32	Kamion	JaneW: what's the word on home-user-backup, for sivang?
03:32	Mithrandir	ogra: they seemed to be unfinished code, according to Scott?
03:32	JaneW	sivang is here
03:32	ogra	Mithrandir, he promised to have all changes in before UVF
03:32	Mithrandir	ogra: sounds good
03:32	Diziet	Yes, but is home-user-backup going to be in dapper ?  (Please?)
03:33	Kamion	JaneW: 14:29  * sivang is assigned to home-user-backup, can I be excused as this spec seems not to be targetted for dapper?
03:33	Kamion	sivang: hmm, it seems to be targeted to dapper in launchpad at the moment; please stick around
03:33	JaneW	Kamion: it's sivang's goal, and we are tracking it as medium
03:33	JaneW	sivang: comments?
03:34	Diziet	I think it might have been me that changed the Target to Release because it looked like it had just been forgotten.  Was that wrong of me ?
03:35	ogra	i think thats a mdz job normally
03:35	Diziet	Oh.
03:35	JaneW	Kamion: it is, has he looked at the table recently?
03:35	Kamion	JaneW: ok, let's talk about it when we get round to sivang in the list
03:35	Kamion	pitti: ?
03:35	pitti	first, non-blocked specs:
03:35	pitti	automatic-printer-conf: DONE: cups 1.2beta in dapper (needed twice the expected time, though); PLAN: add dbus patch, change g-v-m to respond to hotplug events; ETA: 1 day
03:35	JaneW	it took us a week or 2 after UBZ to work through the list, still not 100%
03:35	pitti	language-pack-vs-support: No coding action from my side; filed bug against installer for required string change, coordinate with mvo about langselector changes
03:36	pitti	general stuff next week: continue the ReducingDuplication campaign, finish merges, the usual chores (main inclusion reviews, pending security updates, bug triage); I will merge libgphoto2 and do the udev adaptions, but I need to work with somebody who has a scanner to be able to do libsane for new udev.
03:36	pitti	specs with blocks:
03:36	pitti	gstreamer-audio-backend: ALSA 1.10 is in dapper, still BLOCK on gstreamer 0.10 for creating the alsadmixsink
03:36	pitti	hide-admin-tools-to-users: no actions since last week; BLOCK: sudo logging decision, see u-d mail
03:36	pitti	automated-problem-reports: BLOCK: approval from Keybuk, would appreciate opinions from other people, too (elmo, Kamion, mdz) since this is very intrusive
03:36	pitti	inactive stuff:
03:36	Kamion	pitti: eta on gstreamer 0.10?
03:36	pitti	firewall: carstenh proposed bounty; no coding from my side, just review; no plans
03:36	pitti	rosetta-firefox-support, langpacks-desktopfiles, pmount-uber-alles: no change since last week, no time
03:36	pitti	mdz discussions: had none, would like to have one about sudo stuff (prefered: TB meeting) and one about automated-problem-reports
03:36	pitti	Kamion: December, I think
03:37	HiddenWolf	Kamion, 11 days according to #gstreamer
03:37	pitti	does anybody have an usb scanner/
03:37	pitti	?
03:37	Kamion	pitti: if you've got a decision to present, TB might be a good place to run through automated-problem-reports too
03:37	pitti	Kamion: right, that's whatI wrote
03:37	mvo	pitti: I can get my hands on a usb-scanner
03:37	seb128	pitti: I've a snapscan 1212
03:38	pitti	ok, I'll get to you for testing then, thanks
03:38	seb128	np
03:38	ogra	i have a canon lide20 here
03:38	ogra	(or 30 ... not sure)
=== Seveas has a USB scanner too
03:38	jbailey	pitti: I have an epson 1240u
03:38	pitti	wow, overwhelming
03:39	Mithrandir	I have a canon lide something which needs the genesys driver from the experimental sane CVS.
03:39	Seveas	we have a winner :)
03:39	pitti	right now I rated automated-problem-reports as 'might not get implemented' since it's such a big one
03:39	pitti	and I need the spec settled very soon
03:39	Kamion	ok, thanks pitti
03:39	Kamion	Riddell: ?
03:40	Riddell	kubuntu-roadmap-dapper: packaging KDE 3.5, some modules blocked on subversion upload
03:40	Riddell	kubuntu-documentation: settings up documentation for dapper to work properly with KDE
03:40	Riddell	next week: finishing KDE 3.5, tidy up KDE transition and merge, simplify-kde and hopefully start kubuntu-system-tools, sort out bounty for kubuntu-package-manager
03:40	Kamion	Riddell: if you're not making any more changes to kubuntu-express, punt it up to pending-approval and I'll take a look at it
03:41	Riddell	Kamion: ok
03:41	Kamion	Riddell: should kubuntu-documentation be assigned to you? I see it's currently assignee-less
03:41	Kamion	as are a bunch of Kubuntu specs
03:42	Riddell	Kamion: I'm not sure, I'm doing the technical parts of it, the community are doing the actual writing parts
03:42	zyga	pitti: I can keep helping with desktop files, just give me directions
03:42	pitti	zyga: that'll be great
03:42	Kamion	hmm, right; we need somebody to take responsibility for driving it and making sure it gets finished to our satisfaction
03:42	dholbach	Riddell: maybe we can look into the docs stuff together - buildsystem-wise
03:43	Riddell	Kamion: jjesse and me take that responsibility
03:43	Riddell	dholbach: yes, see the mailing list yesterday for discussions on it
03:43	Kamion	JaneW: can you record that in Launchpad somehow?
03:43	dholbach	Riddell: which one?
03:44	Riddell	dholbach: meinproc discussion
03:44	JaneW	Kamion: what?
03:44	dholbach	Riddell: does that still refer to docs? if so, i'll do that
03:45	Kamion	JaneW: 14:43 < Riddell> Kamion: jjesse and me take that responsibility
03:45	Riddell	dholbach: it does
03:45	dholbach	Riddell: ok
03:45	Riddell	I'm happy to be assigned to kubuntu-documentation
03:45	JaneW	Kamion: ok, sure
03:45	Kamion	seb128: ok, your turn
03:46	seb128	menus-revisited: almost all the changes have been uploaded (openoffice/gnome-bluetooth/avahi still to change), a bit of coordination to do with upstream to push some of the changes, will probably be moved to done next week
03:46	seb128	rhythmbox-ipod: packaged libgpod which is used by rhythmbox CVS, tried rhythmbox CVS too (0.9.2 tarball will be rolled pretty soon). There is still rhythmbox code to do, but I'm waiting to get my ipod for this (probably next week)
03:46	seb128	faster-gnome-startup: half of already done upstream/packaged. I've planned to work on the gconf transition (which is a part of it) today/tomorrow.
03:46	seb128	dapper-desktop-plan: not started yet, I'll work on that next week
03:46	seb128	video-playback: waiting for gstreamer0.10 which is due first week of december
03:46	seb128	next-week: continue to catch up with the huge pile of bugs, fix GNOME components for the firefox ABI changes, starting work on dapper-desktop-plan
03:46	Kamion	heh, "I need this iPod for work, honest"
03:46	Kamion	go seb :-)
=== dholbach hugs seb128 :)
03:46	seb128	ah ah
03:46	seb128	would be nice :)
03:48	Kamion	sivang: ok, anything on home-user-backup? for the moment it's targetted to dapper; we'll need to talk to mdz and find out if it deliberately wasn't that way earlier
03:48	Kamion	(and if so why)
03:48	Keybuk	heh
03:48	Keybuk	can I have an iPod too?
03:48	pitti	I need it for g-v-m testing ;)
03:48	seb128	rohh
03:49	ogra	isnt the biggest part of home-user-backup already covered by the SoC backuptool ?
03:49	Keybuk	I need one of those new nanos, they hit udev corner cases <g>
03:49	Diziet	sbackup you mean ?  Have you tried it ?
03:49	Diziet	I have and, erm.
=== claydoh [n=claydoh@65.99.187.177] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:49	ogra	nope
03:49	infinity	It needs much love.
03:49	ogra	ah, k
03:49	ogra	didnt know that
03:49	infinity	It did what is was meant to, but it's hardly up to our standards for ubuntu-desktop yet.
=== JaneW has to go for a group photo (sorry) will be afk for 2 mins...
03:50	ogra	so you mean it needs HIG love ?
03:50	Diziet	No, it needs love.  Some serious SM, I think.
03:50	ogra	or is the code itself awful
03:50	infinity	Backend polish too.  It just needs months of testing and refinement, or someone to work on it hardcore for a week or two.
03:50	infinity	Or both.
03:51	Diziet	I would describe it as a proof of concept.  Although I'm not sure of what concept.
03:51	ogra	heh
03:51	infinity	Anyhow, we veer offtopic.
03:51	Kamion	sivang seems to be away from the keyboard for a bit; if he comes back, we can get an update later
03:51	fabbione	ok
03:51	Kamion	doko: you're up
=== fabbione hands the microphone to doko
03:52	doko	toolchain: gcc/gcj packages split, libstdc++ allocator change in the works (pestering several people with NEW processing, promotions and package uploads), ia32-libs removal stalled (blocked by glibc biarch on amd64)
03:52	doko	java-updates: charles started, not yet started myself.
03:52	doko	others: no progress
03:52	doko	This week: gcc/gcj packages split, gcj-4.1 updates, syncs, merges libstdc++ allocator change, "java to native code infrastructure for libjava packages" is late.
03:52	doko	Next week:  - last libstdc++ allocator changes, making OOo buildable again, "java to native code infrastructure for libjava packages", start python merges/syncs, packaging update
03:52	Riddell	doko: is gcj-4.0 going to be installable soon?
=== shawarma [n=sh@3E6B503C.rev.stofanet.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:53	doko	Riddell: yes, -4ubuntu10 is uploaded
03:53	seb128	doko: oo.o2 doesn't build atm?
03:53	Kamion	Riddell: according to dapper_probs.html it is already
03:53	Riddell	excellent
03:53	infinity	dapper_probs lies, then.
03:53	infinity	The unbroken version is still building.
03:54	Diziet	Can I suggest that in general the community participants should get to go first in this meeting ?  That will avoid us making them wait around quite so much.
03:54	doko	seb128, pending libstdc++ allocator changes ...
03:54	Kamion	Diziet: that's a good point; you're right
03:54	seb128	doko: I have some MenusRevisited changes to do, just to know if that's worth I try doing the change or if it'll not build anyway
03:55	doko	seb128, b-d's are not installable
03:55	seb128	k
03:55	seb128	thanks
03:55	JaneW	back
03:56	fabbione	if there is nothing more i am sort of in a hurry to go away
03:56	Kamion	infinity: hard to tell since ubuntu-minimal isn't installable, so I guess it's fairly hosed
03:56	doko	pitti: what about dropping mozilla-dev, are libnss-dev and libnspr-dev built from firefox, or separate sources?
03:56	Kamion	ok, Keybuk wanted to have a quick merge progress update
03:56	Keybuk	yes
03:56	pitti	doko: oh, good point
03:56	Kamion	we have four minutes :)
03:56	infinity	Kamion : I'm your "make stuff installible again" slave, first thing Monday.  Or maybe tomorrow, if I get other stuff out of the way.
03:56	Kamion	I make it 127 open merge bugs currently
03:56	Keybuk	there are 120 merges outstanding, of which 10% date before dapper opened
03:56	pitti	doko: #u-d, let's discuss that later
03:56	Keybuk	127?  I have 122
03:56	doko	pitti: ok
03:56	seb128	pitti, doko: xulrunner?
03:56	Keybuk	this is only a slight decrease on this time last week
03:57	Keybuk	ergo. PEOPLE ARE NOT DOING ENOUGH MERGES
03:57	pitti	all merge bugs are assigned now
03:57	doko	Keybuk: I DONT KNOW THAT THERE ARE OPEN BUGS, you can't see them, if you are not the assigne
03:57	Keybuk	doko: yes you can.
03:57	Kamion	alright, please everyone push merges a step or two up your to-do list
03:57	Keybuk	I've posted a URL which lists them a few times
03:57	ogra	doko, YOU CAN WITH mdz's URL HE SEND
03:57	Kamion	doko: I have a "merge bugs" saved query in bugzilla, so it's fairly straightforward to see
03:58	ogra	s/send/sent/
03:58	Keybuk	basically search for all bugs which have an alias beginning "merge-*"
03:58	pitti	doko: search for 'merging' in bugzilla, that's easiest and effective
03:58	Kamion	doko: anyway, I make it 16 or so assigned to you :)
03:58	Kamion	(I have plenty myself)
03:58	Keybuk	http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&product=Ubuntu&long_desc_type=allwordssubstr&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=allwords&keywords=&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&emailtype1=substring&email1=&emailtype2=substring&email2=&bugidtype=include&bug_id=&votes=&chf
03:58	Keybuk	ieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Reuse+same+sort+as+last+time&query_based_on=Pending+Merges&field0-0-0=alias&type0-0-0=regexp&value0-0-0=%5Emerge-
03:58	pitti	Keybuk: is MOM still running? some packages were already merged twice
03:59	pitti	arghl
03:59	Keybuk	trim and save that :)
03:59	HiddenWolf	Keybuk, tinyurl!
03:59	Kamion	if people want to take merges, they should feel free to ask the assignee, in general; sometimes the assignee will be happy to give stuff away
03:59	Kamion	I recommend marking the bug ASSIGNED if you're actually in progress on the merge, so that people can tell
04:00	Keybuk	yeah, I've actually done that a few times so far -- and stolen merges off people because they were in a package I wanted to touch, or just because I looked through the patches and decided I knew how to do it
04:00	Kamion	anyway, we're out of time; any quick final business?
04:00	Keybuk	oh yes
04:00	Keybuk	mom is not running
04:00	Mithrandir	why not?
04:00	Keybuk	she'll start again once the current merge dearth is done, if there's time before UVF
04:00	pitti	makes sense IMHO
04:00	Keybuk	otherwise it's a "SHIT KEEPS FALLING!" problem
04:00	pitti	otherwise it's hard to tell which packages were merged three times, and which never
04:02	Keybuk	http://www.lag.net/random/leisure-c.jpg
04:02	Kamion	let's try to get that down below 20 or so for next week, then (unless MOM is restarted)
04:02	Kamion	(making some allowance for the brutally hard ones here)
04:02	Keybuk	right, everyone only needs to do about 10-15 each
04:03	JaneW	Thanks everyone that ran pretty well, I'll try to get the sheet updated and published during tomorrow
04:03	Kamion	if you have no merge bugs assigned, look for ones you want to steal
04:03	pitti	Kamion: some are blocked by stuff (e. g. thunderbird locale packages for tbird 1.5, etc.)
04:03	Kamion	pitti: hence allowance
04:03	JaneW	in absence of most of the meeting updates, I will keep last week's ones on the list
04:03	pitti	thanks everyone
04:03	Kamion	ok, thank you all; *ding* meeting closed

</pre>
