{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Edgy+1 planning -- see Accessibility/Specs and [WWW] Boston summit notes
* Team structure -- support, documentation, development

=== Log ===
<pre>
09:01	heno	We'll start in a few minutes
=== Joanie [n=jd@c-24-147-88-22.hsd1.nh.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:01	heno	some of the usual participants are missing
09:01	heno	I expect TheMuso is asleep in .au :)
09:02	heno	Welcome Joanie!
09:02	Joanie	thanks heno
09:03	krister	Don't know if it's ok to introduce oneself yet, but anyways, hi, Krister from Sweden here. Rather new in the a11y team.
09:03	heno	great idea :)
09:03	heno	I'm Henrik Omma, from Norway, Ubuntu Accessibility Coordinator
09:04	TheBadger	Here goes then, I'm Mikael also from Sweden, and also quite new.
09:04	Joanie	Joanie Diggs, USA, volunteer worker bee (delegate to me)
09:04	krister	Hi my scandinavian brother.:)
09:04	heno	Hi :)
09:04	heno	How many people here bare using Edgy now?
09:05	frafu	Francesco Fumanti from Luxembourg; rather new to linux
=== gk4_ [i=chatzill@nat/ibm/x-6f79bb7ba9cbdef7] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== gk4_ is now known as gk4
09:05	TheBadger	I do
=== Joanie raises her hand
09:05	heno	I get a feeling that people have been quite early in testing bleeding edge stuff
09:06	heno	Hi gk4, we are doing introductions
09:06	krister	I also use Edgy and have done so after a tip from the badger here.
09:06	frafu	i do on my second machine
09:06	hittsjunk	I've switched from main stream Debian to Ubuntu in early September.
09:07	heno	So today we really just have two rather broad topics
09:07	heno	#1 is Edgy+1 planning
09:07	heno	now known as Feisty
09:07	Joanie	hehehe Feisty what?
09:08	heno	Fawn :)
09:08	Joanie	lol cool thanks
09:08	gk4	I'm George Kraft <gk4> from IBM.  I'm working on Linux accessibility for Gnome.
09:08	heno	One approach is to look at the wishlist on http://live.gnome.org/Boston2006/AccessibilitySummit
09:09	heno	and think about which parts of that are realistic in the next 6 months
09:09	heno	and perhaps 12 months
09:09	krister	How broad a field do we actually cover, i mean is it our goal to make as many programs as possible accessible or just a few main stream ones, like in that other alien operating system ya know?:)
09:10	heno	The role of Ubuntu here should be to try to bring together some work that is going on in the community and package it in a useful way
=== cyphase [n=cyphase@ppp-67-119-186-34.dialup.pltn13.pacbell.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:11	heno	krister: in our case it's more about making the toolkits and infrastructure accessible and the apps will follow
09:11	heno	so most GTK stuff works well
09:11	heno	while the KDE/QT stuff needs a lift with an AT-SPI implementation
09:11	krister	That's the cool thing with this desktop. Most things seem to work.
09:12	heno	of course we also need to test individual apps
09:12	heno	right, but very key things like the browser are lagging a bit
09:12	krister	Can i be specific for a moment or is this the wrong forum for it?
09:12	heno	but great work is being done there
09:13	heno	krister: go ahead
09:14	krister	Any word on a good rather advanced audio editor? and how about ocr programs?
09:14	heno	krister: I'm not sure if Jokosher is advanced enough
=== cyphase [n=cyphase@ppp-67-119-186-34.dialup.pltn13.pacbell.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:14	heno	but is under rapid development
09:14	heno	and is generally accessible
09:15	heno	though we should follow it up closely
09:15	hittsjunk	Ocrad and gocr are good enough now for me to use them to read my print mail.
09:15	heno	hittsjunk: and you have them running on Ubuntu?
09:15	hittsjunk	yes
09:16	krister	I've seen a little of Jokosher, and it looks promising but i don't think it's there quite yet, but i could be wrong. I only have an rather old version.
09:16	heno	would you mind writing a short howto somewhere?
09:16	heno	hittsjunk: ^
09:16	heno	in the forum, wiki or on the list
09:16	hittsjunk	I still run them in a gnome terminal, so Windows users won't like my solution.
09:17	hittsjunk	I feed the output from scanimage to the OCR engines.
09:17	krister	There should be some sort of gui front end for GOcr. Could you please write the solution to the list anyway, Hitsjunk.
09:17	hittsjunk	ok
09:17	heno	hittsjunk: we should really get that linked up with the scanning app
=== MikePedersen [n=mikep@c-71-202-47-37.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:18	Joanie	Hi Mike
09:19	krister	Hi Mike
09:19	heno	OK, so I now have one new spec idea: OCR support :)
09:19	krister	And support for midi sequenzers like Cakewalk or somesuch...
09:20	heno	Anyone have an estimate of when Firefox 3 will be somewhat stable?
09:20	heno	krister: are there any realistic candidates?
09:21	heno	it would probably need to be GTK, QT or command line
09:21	heno	What about media players, how are we doing there
09:21	Joanie	In terms of the list from the Accessibility Summit, if there is any way to look at the sound issues (item 14) that would be great
09:21	heno	?
09:21	krister	What about Ardour? I looked around for more such things with apt-cache search and found a couple. Perhaps the badger knows something
09:21	Joanie	quirky sound issues take out screen readers
09:21	hittsjunk	Real player is a gtk2 app, so Windows media is the only missing format I know about.
09:22	heno	hittsjunk: have you tried VLC with GTK or mplay (command line)?
09:22	MikePedersen	I think the real problem with sound cards is the legacy OSS support that often times gets used
=== Adri2000 [n=Adri2000@unaffiliated/adri2000] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:22	hittsjunk	no
09:23	heno	Joanie: yep, I think we may be moving to polyaudio or something
09:23	Joanie	very cool
09:23	heno	Though I should raise this as an issue with our sound people (if we have any?...)
09:24	Joanie	Yeah, if that can be prioritized....
09:24	heno	I'll add that to my topic list
09:25	Joanie	oh shoot, I just realized that I forgot to file on launchpad regarding a sound for the initial live cd screen
=== Joanie slaps forhead
09:25	krister	Does anyone know if there's a sound forge like app for Linux accessible or not. Jokosher is multi-channel, Badger? or anyone
09:25	heno	MikePedersen: you were at the boston summit right?
09:25	Joanie	i'll file, but that little change would make a big difference
09:25	heno	we are looking at http://live.gnome.org/Boston2006/AccessibilitySummit
09:25	heno	to find implementable items :)
09:26	MikePedersen	yes I was
09:26	heno	krister: a good place to ask might be the ubuntu studio team: http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=128
09:27	MikePedersen	We spent a lot of time talking about accessibility testing
09:27	heno	Of applications, right. Is that a key bottleneck now?
09:28	heno	Is the lack of support in application one of the main problems?
09:28	krister	Heno, can you please mail that url to me at krister@kristersplace.ws? I'll have to go to windblows to check that out, since i don't entirely trust my dear firefox 3.:-(
09:28	heno	And how much testing can be done manually by the community?
09:29	heno	as opposed to automated tools, still in development
09:29	heno	krister: sure
09:29	MikePedersen	yes, we'd like to get as much automated testing for the infrustructure and the applications as possible
09:29	hittsjunk	KrysterKryster, I saw an email about a sound editor in Emacs on the debian-accessibility list.  You mi9ght want to check the archives.
09:30	krister	Ok, i'll first tame Emacs and then i'll definitely check that.<smiles>
09:30	heno	MikePedersen: how far away is a working automated testing system do you think?
09:31	heno	that can see widespread use
09:31	MikePedersen	I don't know yet,  We are looking at dogtail right now
09:31	MikePedersen	There is also hope of more colaberation between the dogtail and LDTP guys
09:32	heno	ok. we have some general testing plans as well, but progress seems to have been slow
09:32	MikePedersen	There will be a new list starting on gnome.org to discuss this shortly
09:32	heno	yep, we should encourage that
=== jenda [n=jenda@ubuntu/member/jenda] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:35	heno	anyone have comments about https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Specs
09:35	heno	That's mainly my list of ideas
09:35	heno	but other people should add theirs
09:36	heno	How important is good access to GDM in real life?
09:37	krister	What situations are we talking about now, sorry dumb question?
09:37	heno	how many people use public/shared Ubuntu machines or may do so in the future
09:37	heno	where bthat would be important
09:37	Burgwork	heno: gdm accessibility is key thing
09:37	hittsjunk	The gdm sound letting me know I can login is good enough for me.
09:37	MikePedersen	we should be getting good aces to GDM with gnome 2.18.  Some of the patches have already been checked in.
09:38	heno	I guess most people have their home computers set up to ato login
09:38	heno	*auto
09:38	Joanie	yep, I think most do
09:38	hittsjunk	not me
09:38	jonsd	What's a GDM?
09:38	MikePedersen	didn't know you could do auto-login
09:38	Burgwork	jonsd: the login manager
09:38	heno	MikePedersen: good as in not broken or as in Just Works? :)
09:39	MikePedersen	Hopefully, just works
09:39	heno	AFAIR, the instructions for setting it up are several pages long
09:39	heno	ok
09:39	krister	I didn't know you could auto-login either...
09:39	hittsjunk	Until I can can run gnome apps on another system remotely, gdm isn't much use to me.
09:39	heno	so we could get that for free
09:39	Joanie	I'm thinking that needs to be on the wiki
09:39	heno	(from gnome)
09:40	heno	Joanie: yes, there are some useful tips we should collate somewhere
09:40	MikePedersen	We'll also get apps that require sudo for free with 2.18
09:40	heno	not directly documentation, but just useful info
09:40	Joanie	right, tips and instructions for accomplishing them
09:40	krister	What i feel would be important, but it's probably worked on already is a good way of making speech and braille follow when you switch to root when doing things with Symaptic or the update manager or such.
09:41	heno	speaking of documentation :) Burgwork is on the doc team
09:41	MikePedersen	we'll get that with gnome 2.18 Krister
=== Burgwork ducks
=== Joanie laughs. I can do some doc work periodically
09:41	heno	I'm sure there are things we could update there
09:42	Joanie	burgwork:  you lead the doc team?
09:42	heno	should the access team have a documentation coordinator?
09:42	Burgwork	Joanie: no, mdke does
09:42	heno	That can work with the doc team
09:42	Joanie	oh dunno.  Just wondering if there is one, being one of the new kids on the block
09:43	Joanie	mdke is for general, or accessibility?
09:43	Burgwork	general
09:43	heno	and generally make sure we have reasonable docs for the web and the CD
09:43	Joanie	k ty
09:44	heno	that does not mean writing all the docs, but coordinating
09:44	frafu	a  coordinator for the doc would be a good idea, as the doc is rather sparsed around
09:44	Joanie	yeah, maybe we should have someone coordinating
09:44	heno	So do we have volunteers ? ;)
=== Joanie steps back
09:45	heno	frafu: ?
09:45	Joanie	I am a volunteer worker bee; not coordinator :)
09:45	frafu	but it should be someone that already knows what documentation we already have
09:45	heno	that rules me out :)
09:45	frafu	in order to clean it up
09:46	heno	we are at the start of a cycle now, so there is 4-5 months to get it in shape
=== GNAM [n=GNAM@host199-235.pool8252.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:46	frafu	I am afraid I don't know enough yet
09:47	krister	Not me either.
09:47	MikePedersen	I'm afraid orca takes all my time.
09:47	frafu	maybe 2 coordinators, one for the visual impaired and one for the motor impaired
09:48	heno	We did have some people volunteering to do doc work on the list
09:48	krister	What would be the tasks?
09:48	heno	frafu: I'm not sure a split is a good idea. could cause confusion eventually
09:48	heno	make a list of the apps and topics that need documentation
09:49	heno	check the current status and ask others to help
09:50	heno	then coordinate with the doc team on what should go into their main documentation
09:50	heno	and what we should leave in the wiki
09:51	frafu	where would the doc be? (if not in the wiki)
09:51	heno	in the help browser on the CD and on help.ubuntu.com
09:51	krister	Accompanying the program ass a special a11y readme, perhaps?
=== robitaille [n=daniel@ubuntu/member/robitaille] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:52	frafu	ok, for offline use!?
09:52	heno	the advantage of adding content to the docteam pool is that it gets translated by many volunteers in rosetta
09:52	heno	frafu: right
09:53	heno	or even printing
09:53	frafu	Then it has to be in a special format?
09:53	heno	some of the docteam stuff gets printed as well
09:53	heno	yes, docbook
09:53	heno	but the docteam can help transferring it from the bwiki
09:53	heno	*wiki
09:54	heno	that's their area of expertise
09:54	heno	it can all be written in the wiki first
09:54	frafu	Is the docpool anywhere online to see what is already available?
09:54	heno	frafu: https://help.ubuntu.com/
09:55	MikePedersen	All, I now have to leave for another meeting.  If any questions come op for me, please send me a note at: michael.pedersen@sun.com
09:55	Joanie	take care Mike
09:55	heno	MikePedersen: cool, thanks for joining us!
09:56	MikePedersen	I'l always try to attend.
09:56	heno	OK so we'll let people chew on the doc coordination a bit
09:56	frafu	bye Mike
=== MikePedersen [n=mikep@c-71-202-47-37.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
09:56	heno	another topic is forum coordination
09:57	heno	to keep an eye on the forums and stay in touch with the forum staff
09:58	heno	We are still getting a fair number of off-topic posts in there
09:58	heno	(about wireless access and such)
09:58	heno	but I'm not sure it's a big problem
09:58	frafu	is it not the job of the moderators of each forum?
09:59	heno	someone has to notify them
09:59	heno	there are only about 20 of them for the whole forums
09:59	heno	so they cannot watch everything
10:00	frafu	notify by pm?
10:00	krister	I don't think you can totally avoid such problems with posts drifting off-topic if you don't put up rules that prohibit those posts, and i don't think we want that.
10:00	heno	another task there would be to answer simple questions, point to documentation or seek help from the wider community if needed
10:00	heno	frafu: yes
10:01	heno	krister: it's not that they drift off topic, they start completely off topic
10:01	heno	they are about accessing your samba server not accessibility
10:02	heno	I'm not it's actually a problem though
10:02	krister	Ok, that sounds like wrong topics there...
10:02	frafu	i know of another board with a notify moderator button; may be it is a good idea to add such a button
10:02	heno	I'm more worried about people not getting answers when they ask
10:03	heno	frafu: that is a good idea, I'll bring it up
10:03	krister	Or getting the all too common answer in this world, RTFM. I could maybe try answering simple questions on the list.
10:03	frafu	the button should be good visible
10:03	heno	the most common example is sound problems
10:03	heno	or general boot problems
10:04	heno	which many forum regular know the answers to
10:04	hittsjunk	rtfm is the best thing to do when you are new to something.
10:04	heno	but our community is still a bit small, so we may not
10:04	Joanie	yeah, but rtfm is not all that friendly or in keeping with the ubuntu philosophy
10:05	Joanie	if we want more users with disabilities to adopt linux....
10:05	heno	yeah, it's bad form
10:05	frafu	and the person does not know what rtfm means;)
10:05	Joanie	lol true frafu
10:05	heno	then it's ok :)
10:05	Joanie	but when they find out, they are likely to bail
10:05	hittsjunk	True, but I loose patients with people who ask me the same question over and over because they won't read the links I give them.
10:05	Joanie	radio transmitter frequency modulation, yeah, yeah....
10:05	heno	but it can be said nicely by providing a link
10:05	krister	And Kenny, i'll have to say that i consider myself very new to the Linux environment although i've come a long way, and sometimes, i find i don't even know what FM to R in the first place.:)
10:06	Joanie	agreed hittsjunk
10:06	Joanie	and agreed krister
10:06	heno	do others agree that one or two forum coordinators would be useful?
10:07	Joanie	yeah
10:07	heno	who can help new people and forward questions
10:07	heno	I'm not sure if the mailing lists need the same
10:07	heno	unlikely at this point
10:07	TheBadger	That's a good idea
10:08	krister	Hitsjunk, i know where you come from, but see it like this, maybe they don't understand what they read and you or i explain things better than a rather dry man page or link.
=== zorglu_ [n=zorglub@86.73.86.115] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:08	hittsjunk	Maybe, but the Gnome users guide explains basics better than I could.
10:09	krister	I can't argue with you there, because i've only been to the help system.:-)
10:09	heno	perhaps forum coordination/mentoring should actually be shared between a VI and an MI person?
10:09	hittsjunk	I don't mind answering questions about I link I tell you to read I just have a problem when people don't read.
10:09	frafu	vi,  mi?
10:10	heno	since personal experience can be important in answering questions
10:10	heno	frafu: what you mentioned before: visual impairment and motoric impairment
10:10	frafu	I also answer question when I know what has to be done
10:11	heno	of course 'other' people can apply too ;)
10:11	heno	frafu: do you think it would help in some way to have a coordinator hat?
10:11	heno	some semi-official role?
10:12	frafu	I still don't understand exactly what you mean
10:13	frafu	if somebody wants to answer in the forum he will do so
10:13	heno	someone who checks the forum once a week for unanswered questions and can forward them with some official capacity to other parts of the forum or mailing lists
10:13	frafu	he can notify about wrong topics
10:13	heno	as a forum mentor
10:14	heno	right, but the forums have 130.000+ members, 99.9% of who don't read the accessibility section
10:15	heno	when a question about sound or partitioning show up
10:15	frafu	okk; are you talking about all the forums  or only the accessibiliy forum
10:15	frafu	?
10:15	heno	that can be linked to a new question in the general section
10:16	heno	explaining some of the background, why jumping to the shell might not be a working solution for this person, etc.
10:16	frafu	if you are talking only of the accessibiliy forum, i can do it
10:17	heno	I'm talking about helping out in the access forums, yes
10:17	heno	but drawing on the resources of the whole community
10:18	frafu	unfortunately, I don't know much about accessibility except m2
10:18	heno	as someone who has a bit more of an overview than a completely new person
10:19	heno	but you now know where the general docs are found, how to log in to IRC to ask a question, etc
10:19	frafu	yes, i do
10:19	heno	and if you get stuck you can email or ping me on IRC
10:19	heno	if you don't know the answer you can draw in someone who does
10:20	frafu	i am ready to try and see what I can do
10:20	heno	frafu: cool! I'll get you a hat :)
10:20	krister	Too bad i can't build Elinks with Ecma script suppoHeno, how about a fedora?:-)
10:21	krister	ignore the first part of that msg
10:21	heno	no, but seriously I think that other community members will be happy to help with forwarded questions
10:21	frafu	i will do my best
10:21	finalbeta	Hello, I'm not part of the team, so I hope I'm not invading or in the wrong place. I posted the last idea on this page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Ideas/Edgy+1 "Enhance spell checking". Read you where looking for idea's, That one would be immensely handy. being able to switch between languages for spell checking.
10:22	frafu	you know already different people i could contact?
10:22	heno	frafu: are you happy to look at vision/sound questions as well, or would you like someone to share the job?
10:23	heno	finalbeta: I agree. do you have an idea of what packages need improving to make that work?
10:24	frafu	it would be better if someone would share the job, otherwise I will probably only be able to point the person to already existing documentation
10:24	finalbeta	heno, I think it should be discussed on how it could even be implemented. Like when talking xchat, how do you allow users to switch.
10:24	heno	any other volunteers to help with the forum mentoring?
10:24	heno	(we can ask on the forum and lists too)
10:25	hittsjunk	I can try, but I'm not the most dependable.
10:25	heno	heh, ok thanks hittsjunk
10:25	heno	the volume is not too great ATM
10:25	heno	finalbeta: it would be nice to switch keyboard layouts too
10:26	krister	If the forum involves the mailing list, i can answer simple questions, but don't come to me for answers about programming or emacs, cause i don't know the first thing about them.:-)
10:26	heno	I keep typing  in the wrong places =
10:26	heno	:) rather
10:27	heno	krister: great, thanks. Looks like we have a support team!
10:27	krister	Then i'll take care of the mailing list?
10:28	heno	krister: excellent
10:28	finalbeta	heno, I agree, but that seems like another issue. Switching of keyboard layouts. Since that is global, and spell-checking supports seems to be something that is handled per application.
10:28	heno	finalbeta: I wonder if it would be possible for the spellchecker to figure out what language is being used?
10:28	krister	Hitsjunk, be ready for stupid newbie questions from me.:-)<smiles>
10:29	finalbeta	heno, MS Word can do it, but I have not yet seen it on a linux program.
10:29	hittsjunk	No problem.  I'll also try to answer questions on the list.
10:29	hittsjunk	Remember, most of my experience in in the console.
10:30	heno	it can often be useful to copy in other lists, like the general user list or gnome-accessibility
10:30	krister	I'm slowly getting used to that evil beast myself, finally.:)
10:30	heno	depending on the question
10:31	finalbeta	heno, the problem with spellchecking I think is that every program seems to have it's own way of doing it. Gaim, Openoffice, Totem, Xchat..., how can you enable spellchecking in multiple languages in all those packages in a consistent way.
10:31	heno	the a-devel list has not seen much use, but it will pick up with the new cycle
10:31	finalbeta	(Scratch Totem from that list :p )
10:32	heno	finalbeta: yep, it's a generally useful idea. do you know how to set up a spec?
10:32	Burgwork	finalbeta: there was a spec to change that
10:32	Burgwork	however, licensing is an issue
10:32	heno	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpecSpec
10:33	finalbeta	Burgwork, yes, with firefox, that spec was to enable one spellchecking lib. But not to enable spellchecking in multiple languages
10:33	Burgwork	ah
10:33	jonsd	A spellchecker ought to be able to recognise which language by looking for the one with fewest errors.  Auto language recognition for TTS would be useful too.  Perhaps a spellchecker could look at the text in order to tell TTS whuch language?
10:33	finalbeta	Openoffice or firefox, on of the two needed it's own lib because of licensing. (I vagualy remember reading it)
10:34	Burgwork	FF
10:34	Burgwork	due to the MPL
10:34	frafu	is there not already a framework for spellchecking in linux that could be used by the different apps?
10:35	Burgwork	there are a number of libraries that provide that framework
10:35	finalbeta	jonsd, indeed. The spellcheckers throughtout the system should be able to do this for the languages the user enabled language support for.
10:35	Burgwork	I guess you coudl say that there are multiple
10:35	heno	jonsd: that's s cool idea!
10:35	krister	Jonst, this provided that there's a tts engine for that language. AFAIK there's only one engine today that support Swedish, for example and that's Festival, and i don't know how good that is.
10:36	heno	perhaps it should be implemented in the spellcheckers first and then tie the TTS into that
10:36	jonsd	I'll set up a Sweedish voice for eSpeak if you want to make it useable :-)
10:36	TheBadger	Well i hope to in sometime have some success with swedish for the espeak.
10:36	hittsjunk	I don't know how ggood festival sounds in Swedish, but it is one of the more stable gnome-speech drivers.
10:36	jonsd	But Sweedish sounds look very complicated, see en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sweedish_phonology
10:36	heno	what about spell checking as you type for screen reader users?
10:36	heno	is there anything useable today?
10:37	krister	No, or rather yes provided spell checker and speech provides the same languages.
10:37	heno	has anyone tried mbrola?
10:37	TheBadger	It is, but i have done some testing
10:37	heno	that does have Swedish
10:38	krister	But mbrola and festival is the same, ain't it?
10:38	heno	does the same job, but in different ways
10:38	hittsjunk	No, festival can use mbrola voices, but they are different synths.
10:39	krister	Badger, is it the embrola voices you have for Swedish?
10:39	heno	mrbrola is also not 100% Debian free
10:39	heno	so we cannot put it on the CD
10:39	TheBadger	I hope we could get some better functionality with seech-dispatcher (or a direkt driver for espeak).
10:39	krister	could one stuff it into multiverse?
10:40	heno	but we could put it in 'multiverse'
10:40	heno	right
10:40	heno	It would be great to see some testing of this
10:40	heno	the Oralux team have made some packages as well
10:40	heno	which may well install on Ubuntu
10:41	krister	I'd love to, if i only knew what to do and how.<smiles>
10:41	heno	look back a few weeks in the mailing list at the post from Oralux about it
10:41	hittsjunk	I was planning to use the Oralux packages when I installed Mbrola this time.  I'll post my results.
10:42	heno	hittsjunk: cool!
10:42	krister	Does Embrola work with gnome-speech or speech dispatcher?
10:42	TheBadger	I've tried these a bit, but was unable to get the connection to gnome to work.
10:43	hittsjunk	You use Mbrola with festival, and the gnome-speech festival driver.
10:43	hittsjunk	The Mbrola voices will show up as festival voices.
10:43	krister	Sounds complex, is there a howto somewhere?
10:43	hittsjunk	yes
10:43	hittsjunk	I don't have the link handy, but I'll find it.
10:44	hittsjunk	If the Oralux packages work, it will be a lot easier to get it working.
10:44	finalbeta	(Should I write a Spec about the Multiple language spell-checking, or can one of the accessibility teamers do it? If I do it it's likely to get ignored, like the other spec I wrote, heh)
10:45	krister	Hitsjunk could we keep intouch via mail about this and about that elinks bug thingy?
10:46	hittsjunk	sure. kenny@hittsjunk.net
10:46	heno	finalbeta: writing the spec is only part of it, then you need to make others aware of (as you are now doing)
10:46	frafu	heno: you asked before whether accessibility at the login was important: there was a thread in the accessibiliy forum where a user said it would be important to have onboard at the login screen on a tablet pc
10:46	heno	it should also be scheduled for the summit
10:48	heno	frafu: I remember. it's sort of a use case in the spec too
10:48	frafu	ok
10:48	heno	OK, shall we start to wrap up and continue detailed talks in #ubuntu-accessibility?
10:48	krister	Wonder if the auralux packages contained Swedish. As i understood it from the mail there were only a few languages, but i could be wrong.
10:48	heno	I think we've have a great meeting today!
10:49	heno	some new ideas and a new support team!
10:49	krister	Wow!
10:50	heno	and it's been nearly two hours :)
10:50	frafu	There is another thing I was wondering: why are you trying to add the accessibiliy to the normal livecd; why don't you make special cds?
10:50	heno	not as long as some community council meetings of course
10:50	heno	frafu: for several reasons:
10:50	frafu	one for vi and one for mi
10:50	Joanie	I'm all for special cds if they provide more compelling access, but I see live CDs in places like CompUSA.  
10:51	Joanie	they should all be accessible
10:51	heno	yep.
10:51	hittsjunk	Special CD's always will lag.  One of the things I like about Ubuntu is they include accessibility in the main CD.
10:51	krister	Agreed Kenny!
10:52	heno	this way we get more exposure, more help from core developers, makes it easier to maintain, we don't lag several months behind
10:52	heno	we actually followed the separate approach first
10:52	krister	And we are on the cutting edge, which is very cool i think.
10:52	heno	but it did lag
10:52	hittsjunk	The difference shows.  I couldn't use Gnome  full time until I switched to Ubuntu.
10:53	heno	It really started to pick up momentum when we joined the main CD
10:53	krister	I couldn't use gnome at all under Sarge.
10:53	hittsjunk	Main stream Debian has to many problems that have been solved in Ubuntu.
10:53	heno	btw, you should all try Xubuntu as well
10:53	Joanie	screen reader support there?
10:53	heno	It's got Orca, festival etc.
10:53	Joanie	wow
10:53	Joanie	didn't know that
10:53	heno	and it's very light weight
=== Linuturk [n=Linuturk@12.11.93.98] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:54	heno	yeah, we've been working in the shadows :)
10:54	TheBadger	Same way to start accessibility?
10:54	heno	Not sure if the CD boot menu stuff will make it for edgy, but you can start it manually
10:55	heno	not all the XFCE apps have good access support either
10:55	heno	but we should work towards that
10:55	heno	see http://blog.omma.net/?p=18
10:55	krister	I can't boot my live cd, because there's something wrong in how Ubuntu sees my graphics card. It simply can't start in 24 bit mode.
10:56	heno	krister: you should be able to type in some alternative boot commands with F6 at the boot menu
10:57	krister	Dunno the alternative commands.:)
10:57	heno	the safe graphics mode option might work too
10:58	hittsjunk	There should be text files on the CD with the different possible boot commands.
10:58	krister	Didn't we try that, Badger?
10:58	heno	krister: I'll look it up for you
10:58	TheBadger	will tryI think so.
10:59	heno	krister: first try: boot CD, press down arrow once, then F5, etc
10:59	heno	that should start it in safe graphics mode
10:59	heno	(whatever that is exactly)
11:00	TheBadger	I think its vesa
11:00	krister	Is that the same as force-vesa or something like that, if so, i think it didn't work.
11:00	heno	ah, ok. I dunno
11:00	hittsjunk	Kryster, do you know the make and model of your graphics card?
11:00	heno	this is a good question for the wider community though :)
11:01	krister	I think theres something screwed up with the i810 driver, that's what i use... don't know though.
11:01	heno	lots of people will know the answer to this in #ubuntu and elsewhere
11:02	krister	Ok, i'll dig around.
11:03	hittsjunk	I was going to suggest you google using the chipset on the mother board and Ubuntu as your search.
11:03	krister	Will do.
11:05	heno	ok, I'm off to sleep :)
11:06	heno	Thanks all for joining!
</pre>
CategoryAccessibilityTeam
