{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
{{{
19:00	MootBot	Meeting started at 19:00. The chair is heno.
19:00	MootBot	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
19:02	heno	[TOPIC] Things happening today: Kernel bug day and alpha 3 testing
19:02	MootBot	New Topic:  Things happening today: Kernel bug day and alpha 3 testing
19:02	heno	just FYI really, no need for discussion
19:02	heno	unless someone has comments
19:03	bdmurray	Should I be testing the daily builds now?  If not when?
19:04	bdmurray	I can see holding Hug Days and testing daily builds at the same time as being challenging.
19:04	davmor2	lo
19:04	stgraber	pong
19:04	heno	bdmurray: yes, this will happen regularly
19:04	stgraber	sorry, at lug meeting
19:05	heno	we've had then on mondays sometimes close to releases
19:05	davmor2	bdmurray: got my vote testing is hectic enough normally
19:05	heno	should we consider that as a regular day?
19:06	davmor2	sorry heno for which?
19:07	heno	bug days on mondays
19:07	davmor2	right
19:07	heno	we can't really move testing
19:07	heno	as it's tied to thursday releases
19:07	davmor2	true :)
19:08	bdmurray	I think bug days on Mondays is problematic with holidays, timezones and weekends
19:08	pedro_	I'd like to propose Tuesday instead
19:08	pedro_	Monday is for me at least the busiest day of the week where you have to catch up tons of emails from the weekend
19:09	davmor2	Tuesdays sounds good as the majority of testing seems to happen on wednesday's
19:09	bdmurray	heno: did the distro team meeting used to be on Tuesdays?
19:09	heno	with bug day on tuesday the lists could be prepared monday evening
* heno can't remember
19:10	davmor2	sounding like a plan then :)#
19:10	heno	so I'm not sure why it's wednesdays
19:10	heno	it also clashes with this meeting :)
19:10	heno	each week
19:11	liw	so Tuesday sounds best?
19:11	heno	sounds good, bdmurray?
19:11	davmor2	probably because it keeps getting postponed until Wednesday :)
19:12	davmor2	testing that is :)
19:12	bdmurray	heno: that works for me but I'd like to check with the rest of the bugsquad and the marketing team
19:13	heno	bdmurray: yep, will you email the lists?
19:13	davmor2	makes sense no point if no-one else can do it :)
19:13	bdmurray	I think the first possible Tuesday would be the 29th then
19:13	bdmurray	heno: yes
19:14	heno	that's fine
19:14	heno	are we skipping it the week of the sprint?
19:15	bdmurray	That was my assumption but it was an assumption . . .
19:16	heno	[AGREED] We may move bug days to tuesdays to reduce conflicts
19:16	MootBot	AGREED received:  We may move bug days to tuesdays to reduce conflicts
19:16	heno	bdmurray: we probably should skip it. we'll be quite busy
19:17	heno	[TOPIC] Following up on the target bug list with other teams
19:17	MootBot	New Topic:  Following up on the target bug list with other teams
19:17	bdmurray	I'd be happy to help with the lists before leaving if someone wants to take that on
19:17	heno	I intended to attend the platform meeting today but missed it in the end :-/
19:18	heno	bdmurray: perhaps that should go to the bugsquad list as well
19:19	heno	we have several active triagers who are not here now
19:20	heno	desktop team meeting is tomorrow at 14.00 UTC, but I have a phone meeting then
19:21	heno	pedro_: are you on line by then, could you attend?
19:21	pedro_	let me check
19:21	heno	you might want to start attending desktop meetings anyway
19:21	heno	in the same way ogasawara attends kernel meetings
19:22	pedro_	heno: yep, ok i'll attend to it
19:22	heno	of course the gnome packagers are not on the desktop team, but on platform ...
19:22	heno	pedro_: thanks
19:23	heno	I'll propose the bug list as an agenda item there
19:23	heno	[TOPIC] Desktop testing status and a quick 'getting started with dogtail' intro
19:23	MootBot	New Topic:  Desktop testing status and a quick 'getting started with dogtail' intro
19:24	heno	liw has written up https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Automation/DogtailTutorial
19:24	heno	so everyone can play along at home
19:24	heno	with automated desktop testing
19:25	bdmurray	Has anyone tested it on Hardy?
19:25	liw	the instructions on that page work on gutsy, at least for me; I haven't dared to try hardy yet, and all my attempts at trying them in hardy-inside-qemu result in a broken filesystem on the qemu image; however, I expect they'll work on hardy, too
19:25	heno	it failed for me on hardy
19:25	heno	in vbox
19:25	heno	haven't tried on real hardware
19:26	davmor2	I'll let you know latter I'm just rsyncing my bunch of images :)
19:26	liw	nothing in dogtail should be affected by real hardware vs emulation, but then again, that applies to most thigns...
19:26	heno	davmor2: that's great, thanks
19:27	davmor2	well it's what test machine were designed for :)
19:27	liw	anyway, a more general update: that sample script on the page is how far I've gotten; it's surprisingly much effort to get a dogtail script written, and the recorders in accerciser and dogtail are basically of no use at all, so it's all manual work, and trial-and-error, too
19:28	liw	writing the scripts is, in fact, so much effort that I'm not sure it's worth continuing on that path -- it'll take person-weeks of effort to get anything useful for hardy, and then it'll all probably break when the apps change for hardy+1, so they'll have to be updated/rewritten
19:28	heno	liw: I promised I would hook you up with the accerciser dev; this seems like a good time for that
19:28	liw	I found out today about a new tool called Strongwind (or found out about it again -- someone told me about it during UDS, I think), I'll have a quick look at that tomorrow
19:29	liw	strongwind's not packaged for debian or ubuntu, but that should not be a problem
19:29	bdmurray	I know who that someone is
19:29	bdmurray	What happens with the recorders?
19:30	liw	bdmurray, the recorders don't record anything except key presses, when typing into text areas, which are the least interesting part of the script
19:30	heno	I could swear we had accerciser recording native scripts in oslo
19:30	liw	it may be that I'm just stupid and can't figure out how to use the recorders, of course; if so, help is appreciated
19:30	liw	heno, I get the same results now as then, I think, but the results are not useful :(
19:30	heno	I failed at it too ladt week, FWIW
19:31	heno	ok
19:31	liw	that is, the recorder records that I type "hello, world", but fails to record into which widget I do that; it does record the app, though
19:31	heno	so, yeah if anyone wants to play with this and add eyeballs that'd be great
19:32	heno	liw: did you try macaroon?
19:32	heno	it likely has near-identical syntax
19:33	heno	(why he doesn't just always use dogtail scripts i don't know)
19:33	liw	heno, no, I should try that, too
19:34	heno	ok, I think we're done. liw we can talk more about this after the meeting
19:34	liw	I forget why I rejected it as an option last year, but given that dogtail isn't looking promising right now, I should look again at all the options
19:34	liw	heno, ack
19:34	heno	#endmeeting
19:34	MootBot	Meeting finished at 19:34.}}}
