{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Activity reports =====

kirkland reported the recent release of PowerNap, a tool part of the Ubuntu cloud power management solution. RoAkSoAx has been testing Pacemaker-Heartbeat clusters and fixing a couple of bugs. He should call for testing soon, and prepare HowTo's on how to integrate such clusters with DRBD. alexm has been reviewing the monitoring Server Guide section and participated in testing the -proposed kvm-84 in jaunty.

===== Open discussion =====

Daviey questioned the current involvement of the server team in handling SRU bugs related to server packages. ttx commented that though acceptation of SRUs is the prerogative of the -sru teams, the Ubuntu Server team could definitely do a better job at tracking server-related SRU candidates and, when accepted, pushing them to completion. This interesting discussion deserving some preparation, it should be made a full agenda point in the next team meeting.

ACTION: ttx to add "SRU tracking" as a subject on next meeting agenda

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, July 21st at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:08] <ttx> #startmeeting
[16:08] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:08. The chair is ttx.
[16:08] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:09] <ttx> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:09] <ttx> Last week minutes:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090707
[16:09] <zul> hi
[16:09] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:09] <nealmcb> \o
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:10] <ttx> I can't find any ACTION points in last week meeting minutes, so that should be short
[16:10] <ttx> Unless someone has a comment about last week meeting ?
[16:10] <pace_t_zulu> o/
[16:11] <ttx> then... we should proceed to...
[16:11] <ttx> [TOPIC] Roadmap
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Roadmap
[16:11] <Daviey> The agenda is somewhat thin, no?
[16:11] <ttx> Daviey: you can see through it.
[16:12] <Daviey> :)
=== PmDematagoda is now known as PmDematagoda_AFK
[16:12] <ttx> Our Roadmap page still looks a little outdated and jaunty
[16:13] <kirkland> jaundis?
[16:13] <kirkland> oh, jaunty :-)
[16:13] <ttx> We still need to have that discussion on how to best refresh it, but I prefer to have this discussion with mathiaz around, since he designed the current one
[16:14] <ttx> so we'll pass.
[16:14] <ttx> and replace that with kirkland's interesting topic from last week meeting...
[16:15] <ttx> [TOPIC] Name one cool Ubuntu thing you did last week
[16:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Name one cool Ubuntu thing you did last week
[16:15] <ttx> (an Ubuntu Server thing, pereferably)
[16:15] <Daviey> "I went shopping and i bought a.."
[16:16] <ttx> Daviey: 19U rack full of blades ?
[16:16]  * sommer setup drbd in a soon-to-be-production environment (on hardy though)... it was cool to me anyway :)
[16:17] <kirkland> ttx: I released PowerNap -- part of our cloud power management solution
[16:17]  * alexm reviewed karmic serverguide section about monitoring
[16:17]  * sommer cheers alexm
[16:17] <RoAkSoAx> I've been testing Pacemaker-Heartbeat clusters and fixing a couple bugs, and I should be doing a call for testing :). After that I'll be preparing HowTo's on how to integrate it with DRBD :)
[16:17] <ttx> ok, on my side, I took pictures of koalas during my vacation week.
[16:18] <ttx> he definitely looked karmic.
[16:18] <alexm> sommer: :-)
[16:18] <ttx> and was eating fresh eucalyptus leaves.
[16:18] <ttx> anyone else ?
[16:19]  * alexm installed -proposed kvm-84 in jaunty
[16:19] <ttx> alexm: great ! how did that go ?
[16:19] <alexm> seems to be working fine for me
[16:19]  * kirkland cheers alexm!
[16:19]  * kirkland could really use help getting some verification on 4 bugs a jaunty-proposed kvm-84 fixes
[16:19] <alexm> however, i couldn't provide much feedback on all the bugs listed by kirkland
[16:20] <kirkland> alexm: verified one of them, thanks!
[16:20] <kirkland> i need to move those 4 to verification-done, to get kvm-84 into hardy backports
[16:20] <alexm> some of them are quite specific scenarios
[16:20] <pace_t_zulu> i've been working on libposix
[16:20] <pace_t_zulu> and i'm interested in packaging skia for ubuntu
[16:20] <kirkland> unfortunately, i think most of my kvm testers are just happy running the kvm's i've been providing in ppa's
[16:21]  * ttx looks up skia
[16:21] <alexm> kirkland: there are a couple of reporters willing to test the -proposed ones next week or so
[16:22] <ttx> pace_t_zulu: doesn't look like very server-ish
[16:22] <pace_t_zulu> ttx: no it isn't
[16:22] <ttx> ok, anyone else with cool stuff to report ?
[16:23] <ttx> let's open the bar for general discussion then.
[16:23] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:25] <ttx> anyone has soething they want to bring up ? Or July is just too hot ?
[16:26] <alexm> anyone attended to Gran Canaria Desktop Summit?
[16:27] <ttx> alexm: nobody from the sever team, I think
[16:27] <ttx> server, even
[16:27] <kirkland> alexm: mdz did;  he wrote about it in his blog
[16:27] <alexm> i'm not sure if there was any session server-related, being desktop summit
[16:27] <alexm> i was just curious
[16:27] <ttx> it is very desktop-focused.
[16:27] <alexm> kirkland: thanks, i'll take a look
[16:28] <Daviey> I can't help but think the server team should be more involved with SRU bugs related to server packages..
[16:28] <Daviey> Bug #394696 is really "bugging" me
[16:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 394696 in apache2-mpm-itk "Please rebuild apache2-mpm-itk [Hardy] to handle updated apache source" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/394696
[16:28] <ttx> Daviey: excellent subject, thanks
[16:28] <Daviey> and the motu-sru team is *three* people
[16:28] <ttx> We definitely could do a better job at tracking server SRUs
[16:29] <alexm> would it help having apache2-mpm-itk in main?
[16:30] <ttx> tracking candidates and pushing accepted ones to completion
[16:30] <Daviey> I don't think it really needs to be in main TBH
[16:30] <Daviey> I think server *related* packages matter to the server team, no matter where they are..
[16:31] <alexm> sure, good point
[16:31] <ttx> I think discussion on server SRU tracking deserves some preparation and a full agenda point
[16:31] <Daviey> ttx: agreed
[16:31] <ttx> though for the particular bug you mention, it needs to be fixed asap
[16:32] <ttx> Daviey: but it is blocked on motu-sru afaict
[16:32] <Daviey> ttx: We should perhaps raise the discussion with motu(-sru) about how best to help aswell.
[16:33] <ttx> Daviey: this bug could use a proper SRU request, though it's quite simple
[16:33] <ttx> (step 2 in Procedure at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates)
[16:34] <ttx> anyway, we cannot subsitute ourselves to motu-sru
[16:34] <ttx> but tracking SRU candidates and having a regular server team meeting agenda point to review them, yes.
[16:35] <ttx> ACTION: ttx to add SRU tracking to next meeting agenda
[16:35] <ttx> [ACTION] ttx to add SRU tracking to next meeting agenda
[16:35] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to add SRU tracking to next meeting agenda
[16:36] <ttx> ivoks: o/
[16:36] <ivoks> hi all
[16:36] <Daviey> ttx: thanks
[16:36] <pace_t_zulu> hi ivoks
[16:36] <ttx> anything else someone wants to mention before we wrap up ?
[16:37] <ivoks> doh...
[16:37] <ogra> icecubes for everyone !
[16:38] <ttx> ivoks: something you wanted to talk about ?
[16:38] <ivoks> not really
[16:38] <ttx> okay then
[16:38] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:38] <ttx> next week, same place, same time ?
[16:39] <alexm> ok
[16:39] <ttx> I think we have a reasonably good attendance with this timing.
[16:39] <sommer> +1
[16:39] <ivoks> and nothing else works... :)
[16:39] <ttx> alright.
[16:40] <ttx> #endmeeting
[16:40] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:40.
</pre>
