{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

==== Members ====
* <nowiki>[[ArthurLoiret|Arthur Loiret]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MathieuRousseau|Mathieu Rousseau]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510|John Crawford]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[JacobPeddicord|Jacob Peddicord]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[JoeTerranova|Joe Terranova]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ChrisCheney|Chris Cheney]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
03:03	dholbach	ok, let's get started - we have a full agenda
03:03	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda
03:03	PriceChild	Shall I start?
03:04	dholbach	PriceChild: shall we finish that discussion by mail or do you have any specific points you want to raise?
03:04	elkbuntu	and then there was 4
03:04	dholbach	PriceChild: as you asked the CC by mail already
03:04	dholbach	hi elmo
03:04	PriceChild	Nothing new really. Jono hasn't yet replied :( So there's nothing to discuss really.
03:04	jwendell	cypherbios, please call me if you need something from me, i'm busy on my job, ok?
03:04	bryce	morning
03:04	jsgotangco	\o/
03:04	dholbach	PriceChild: I'll prod him about it
03:04	cypherbios	jwendell: that's right. I'll do
03:04	dholbach	PriceChild: hope it's ok for you, if we move on and finish it by mail
03:05	PriceChild	yup sounds fine, no rush :)
03:05	dholbach	ok thanks
03:05	jsgotangco	thanks
03:05	Hobbsee	dholbach: it'd be good if we could get this going, and not be blocked on jono, if he's not replying, then he probably doesnt have much to say on it
03:05	jsgotangco	we'll skip the photo stuff and do it by mail
03:05	cypherbios	jwendell: thanks for coming
03:05	dholbach	I said to jsgotangco already, that'd we'd do the funky feisty vote by mail also - I think it isn't the best use of our time in the meeting
03:06	dholbach	Hobbsee: I agree, that it'd be good to get it going, but let's just move on for now and finish the discussion by mail please
03:06	Hobbsee	dholbach: as you wish
03:06	jsgotangco	as for the derivatives team amachu is here, but this has been cleared up no?
03:06	dholbach	Hobbsee: thanks
03:07	amachu	jsgotangco: means?
03:07	jsgotangco	amachu: ooppss
03:07	jsgotangco	sorry
03:07	dholbach	we had the point on the agenda for at least one CC meeting already
03:07	amachu	jsgotangco: does it awaiting approval?
03:07	Zic	where is our sabdfl ?
03:07	dholbach	amachu: I wrote dfarning a mail about the derivative team situation
03:07	amachu	dholbach: ok
03:08	amachu	dholbach: any update on it?
03:08	dholbach	amachu: as you might have gathered from other lists, the team is alive and kicking again, has a mailing list and had its first meeting
03:08	dholbach	no, I didn't hear back from him
03:08	amachu	dholbach: gr8
03:08	Admiral_Chicago	just a point; I haven't heard from david in a long time and he was the start of the Mozilla Team
03:08	amachu	it has a mailing list?
03:08	pochu	I'm off to have lunch, but I wanted to let you know that I *fully* support j1mc coNP applications to become members. j1mc rocks with Xubuntu testing, and coNP does a lot of bug triage and Desktop Team packaging!
03:08	dholbach	http://lists.ubuntu.com
03:08	dholbach	let's move on
03:08	Admiral_Chicago	we mailed him and are waiting back, dunno if he lost interest or something...last we heard he had a family problem
03:09	amachu	Admiral_Chicago: dfarning?
03:09	dholbach	Admiral_Chicago: right, I'll try to prod him again
03:09	dholbach	Is anybody of the Serbian Team around?
03:09	Admiral_Chicago	as will we
03:09	amachu	okie..
03:09	amachu	thank u
03:09	Admiral_Chicago	amachu: yes
03:09	petrovicivan	yes
03:09	petrovicivan	Serbian coordinator
03:09	petrovicivan	is outway so I will replace him
03:09	pygi	petrovicivan, pozdrav :P
03:09	jsgotangco	Ivan Jelic
03:10	petrovicivan	yes, and I am Ivan Petrovic
03:10	petrovicivan	pygi: pozdrav
03:10	petrovicivan	our Allication approuval is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SerbianTeamApprovalApplication
03:10	dholbach	your web page looks nice - is there any information in english about your team available somewhere?
03:10	dholbach	ah good :)
03:10	petrovicivan	no, we don't have english version
03:10	myriam_rs	hi dinda!
03:11	dholbach	I meant the application
03:11	petrovicivan	thx for look
03:11	jsgotangco	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SerbianTeamApprovalApplication
03:11	petrovicivan	aplication is in english
03:12	jsgotangco	petrovicivan: how many members does the team have? anyone here as well?
03:12	petrovicivan	rainmaker is with us
03:13	rainmaker	hello
03:13	petrovicivan	our team have 8 members
03:14	dholbach	your application says you have 37 cities covered
03:14	jsgotangco	in the page it says that Ubuntu doesn't have serbian localization files, is there a team initiative for this to happen?
03:14	petrovicivan	yes, we covered whole Serbia, because problems with post mail service
03:15	dholbach	petrovicivan: I don't quite understand, how do you cover whole Serbia?
03:15	petrovicivan	jsgotangco: is a mistake look here https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+lang/sr
03:16	petrovicivan	when new release comes
03:16	petrovicivan	our members with broadbend download the ISO and then spread to 37 cities
03:16	dholbach	given that danilo is from serbia, no serbian translations would have struck me somewhat :)
03:17	dholbach	petrovicivan: ah ok, now I understand
03:17	petrovicivan	then people can contact by telephone or ..
03:17	dholbach	are most of you in belgrad?
03:18	petrovicivan	not realy
03:18	petrovicivan	look at http://ubuntu-rs.org/wiki/Share_it
03:18	elmo	'Membership - 999 as of 8th June 2007' - how are you counting that, JOOI?
03:18	petrovicivan	that's the forum members
03:18	petrovicivan	we have a very good forum population
03:19	petrovicivan	it's the numer since May 2005
03:19	elmo	ok
03:19	petrovicivan	when we start. forum was the firts step
03:20	petrovicivan	in creating our community
03:20	jsgotangco	forum activity is nice
03:20	rainmaker	forum is very nice place alsoo
03:21	petrovicivan	yes, we have 23 messages per day
03:21	petrovicivan	(average) since 2005
03:22	petrovicivan	and hottest forum is Absoluty Beginners
03:22	jsgotangco	i think this the forums is a good start
03:22	dholbach	what are your plans for the next months? are there any events planned?
03:22	jsgotangco	but i am quite intrigued by the ShareIT initiative
03:22	rainmaker	a loot of peaple was start with ubuntu thanks to forum
03:23	jsgotangco	with 8 members i am wondering how to cover 32 cities
03:23	jsgotangco	37 even
03:23	jsgotangco	don't get me wrong, I think it is a fabulous initiative
03:24	petrovicivan	sorry, when I say members I was thinking about coordinator team
03:24	petrovicivan	not the whole LoCo
03:24	dholbach	so how many members does your LoCo have?
03:25	petrovicivan	over 1000
03:25	jsgotangco	(nice keychains btw)
03:25	petrovicivan	in Share it we have about active 50 members
03:26	pygi	petrovicivan, uh, uh :) You don't count every forum member as a LoCo membership, right? :)
03:26	petrovicivan	this is the list http://ubuntu-rs.org/wiki/Share_it
03:26	petrovicivan	I little confised about the terminology
03:26	jsgotangco	ok
03:26	pygi	Got it. jsgotangco lemme try to get something :)
03:26	petrovicivan	As you can see top team count 8 members
03:26	pygi	petrovicivan, koliko clanova imate u Launchpad loco timu? Prijavljenih & prihvacenih?
03:27	jsgotangco	yeah that would be great
03:27	petrovicivan	but Share It action have about 50
03:27	petrovicivan	pydi: sec
03:28	pygi	petrovicivan, i da li imate neke uvjete kada osoba moze biti primljena u Launchapd serbia loco team?
03:28	pygi	petrovicivan, k, nema problema
03:28	pygi	(sorry about this folks, trying to help ya a bit ^_^)
03:29	cypherbios	of course :)
03:29	petrovicivan	Launchpad uglavnom vode clanovi GNOME
03:29	petrovicivan	tima za prevodjenje, a ja sam tu aktivan samo kao prevodioc
03:29	pygi	petrovicivan, moze link do launchpad loco tima?
03:30	petrovicivan	pokusavam...
03:30	dholbach	rosetta counts 85 serbian contributors
03:30	pygi	dholbach, Launchpad loco team is being led mostly by the members of the Serbian GNOME translation team
03:30	pygi	trying to fetch more info ^_^
03:30	dholbach	I think it'd be nice to have that kind of number on the application
03:31	dholbach	also plans for the next months or problems the team is working on
03:31	pygi	petrovicivan, dodaj molim te u prijavu da je 85 ljudi aktivno na prevodjenju (da radi na njemu) i na prijavu bi jos trebali problemi na kojima radite i planovi mozda za iduci mjesec
03:31	dholbach	I think that the Serbian LoCo is on the right track, but I feel it would be worth to share all that information on the approval page
03:31	pygi	dholbach, translated :)
03:32	petrovicivan	our plans are to make another Install Show
03:32	petrovicivan	pygi: thx
03:33	pygi	petrovicivan, nista, napisi to na prijavu ^_^
03:33	pygi	dholbach, Installfest
03:33	petrovicivan	were we organize presentation of Ubuntu installation for new users
03:33	petrovicivan	and give then some talk about free software
03:33	rainmaker	also we work in ubutnu popularization in serbia
03:34	pygi	s/were/where
03:34	jsgotangco	what are the current issues surrounding the loco team on effectively managing and implementing its goals to the community?
03:34	jsgotangco	and how does the current membership address it?
03:34	petrovicivan	because most of us are the part of FSN Srbija
03:35	pygi	petrovicivan, razumijes sto su te sada pitali, jel ? :)
03:35	petrovicivan	uglavnom, hajde pomozi da ne lupim
03:35	petrovicivan	pitaju kako resavamo probleme u zajdnici?
03:36	pygi	petrovicivan, pita koji su problemi trenutno oko loko tima oko rada u zajednici?
03:36	pygi	i kako to pokusavate rijesiti
03:37	petrovicivan	the current issue is building our wiki with all solved problems from the forum
03:38	petrovicivan	we have a little help from Wikipedia Serbia, and that will be fine in the future
03:38	rainmaker	we try to educate our members as much as we can
=== elkbuntu notes the time
03:38	petrovicivan	second, is advotacy in computer magazines
03:38	jsgotangco	ok
03:39	Zic	elkbuntu: huhu ;)
03:39	petrovicivan	to spread a word of Ubuntu OS
03:39	jsgotangco	from what I see there is great work being done here for the serbian team
03:39	dholbach	MikeB-, jsgotangco, elmo: any more questions?
03:39	petrovicivan	because few of our members are working part time job at this magazines
03:40	MikeB-	none here
03:40	petrovicivan	not to forget our GNUzilla
03:40	petrovicivan	free software magazine
03:40	pygi	dholbach, o did you see GNUzilla work?
03:40	petrovicivan	that 3 of our members are editing
03:41	pygi	it's pretty nice. Sometimes articles are not top quality, but ... they're working hard on that ^_^
03:41	petrovicivan	http://gnuzilla.fsnserbia.org/
03:41	pygi	petrovicivan, don't think they'll be able to read that :p
03:41	elmo	not from me
03:41	petrovicivan	ok, sorry
03:41	dholbach	Ok. I'm happy with the efforts of the Serbian team and give a +1.
03:41	petrovicivan	but it's the only magazine of that kind in local languange
03:41	jsgotangco	i'm ok to give my approval as well
03:41	MikeB-	+1 here
03:42	pygi	petrovicivan, istina :)
03:42	elmo	yeah, +1
03:42	pygi	petrovicivan, cestitam
03:42	jsgotangco	congrats serbian team!
03:42	rainmaker	thanks
03:42	dholbach	congratulations Serbia!
=== ogra applauds
03:42	lamalex	congrats!
03:42	petrovicivan	that you guys
03:42	jsgotangco	ok
03:42	effraie	\o/
03:42	coNP	congrat Serbian neighbours :)
03:42	myriam_rs	congratulations from SwissTeam also :-)
03:42	bashelier	effraie: :)
=== jsgotangco wonders why brazilian team is here?
03:42	AndreNoel	congrats
03:42	Ubuntuser	Congrats petrovicivan .. ;)
03:42	bashelier	congrats all ;)
03:42	petrovicivan	:):)
=== AndreNoel brazilian
=== dholbach wonders too
03:42	Vorian	Congrats!!!!11
03:42	Ubuntuser	Ubuntuser.. from Brazil!
03:42	cypherbios	Hi all, i't Brazil time now > https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BrazilianTeam
03:43	jsgotangco	anyone from brazil explain why is there an application?
03:43	jwendell	:)
03:43	cypherbios	jsgotangco: I'll do
03:43	jsgotangco	go for it
03:43	AndreNoel	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BrazilianTeam/ApprovalApplication
03:44	cypherbios	please take a look at the approvalapplication page
03:44	dholbach	according to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamList the Brazilian team is not approved yet - I was sure it was approved already :)
03:44	cypherbios	dholbach: Not yet :)
=== OgMaciel not yet
03:44	Fujitsu	It has been around for eeeever. It must be!
03:44	OgMaciel	:)
03:44	jwendell	merely formality...
03:44	OgMaciel	hehe
03:45	OgMaciel	exactly
=== pygi gives +3
03:45	rpereira	:-)
03:45	AndreNoel	:)
03:45	cypherbios	but please, take a look at the approvalapplication page before (at least) hehehe
03:45	Ubuntuser	:]
03:46	cypherbios	Don't miss our website http://www.ubuntu-br.org/
03:46	jsgotangco	ubuntu-br open week, similar to ubuntu's?
03:46	Ubuntuser	yeah
03:46	cypherbios	yes
03:46	dholbach	do you plan to run any events in the next time as a loco? where does your action concentrate?
03:47	jsgotangco	seems every region is well covered, nice!
03:47	cypherbios	dholbach: We already does. We always represent Ubuntu in the principal FLOSS events in brazil
03:47	jsgotangco	(familiar names even)
03:47	jwendell	s/principal/main
03:47	OgMaciel	dholbach: we have already participated in several large sized events as a LoCo
03:47	rpereira	And we always has a national meeting at International Forum of Free Software.
03:47	cypherbios	jsgotangco: yes, 16 of 26 states are officially covered
=== elkbuntu wonders why this actually needs discussion... :
03:48	pygi	cyphase, what? You're not covering 27 states? o.O
03:48	jwendell	:)
03:48	OgMaciel	elkbuntu: hehehe
03:48	pygi	elkbuntu, ++
03:48	pygi	let's just give +3 and be done with it :)
03:48	rpereira	elkbuntu: :-)
03:48	OgMaciel	HAHAHAHA
03:48	jsgotangco	elkbuntu: because
03:48	jsgotangco	anyways
03:48	cypherbios	heheh, thanks
03:48	AndreNoel	:)
03:49	jsgotangco	i'm more than happy to give my vote, but this is a very good example of a big country diversified in the efforts of building a country-covered loco
03:49	jsgotangco	each state has clear goals and reps
03:49	cypherbios	someone has mentioned we have 17 ubuntumembers?
03:49	Whopper	Ok
03:49	AndreNoel	cypherbios: 16
=== myriam_rs gets herself some icecream
03:49	Ubuntuser	thanks jsgotangco ..
03:49	cypherbios	that's what I said :)
03:50	Whopper	Did coreymon77 come on?
03:50	jsgotangco	dholbach elmo MikeB- votes?
03:51	elmo	+1
03:51	rpereira	Guys, I'll have to take my fiancee to the doctor. I hope our community got +inf points. :-)
03:51	elmo	(trivial)
03:51	dholbach	yes, I agree with jsgotangco - everywhere I looked seemed to be healthy brazilian ubuntu action going on - the forums, the wiki, the planet, etc: +1 from me
03:51	AndreNoel	:D
03:51	jsgotangco	\o/
=== dshufelt closes his laptop and heads to work. (Please contact via dshufelt@gmail.com if needed)
03:51	pygi	dholbach, they are even getting own planetoid!!! :)
=== pygi hides
03:51	pygi	o well :p
03:51	rpereira	Thanks elmo and dholbach.
03:51	Zic	does somebody know if sabdfl will come ?
03:51	MikeB-	+1
03:51	jsgotangco	ok let's move to pennsylvania
03:52	jsgotangco	yay
03:52	Ubuntuser	:D
03:52	jsgotangco	Zic: i doubt he'll come today
03:52	cypherbios	Sounds really great! Thanks all!
03:52	rpereira	:-)
03:52	freelancer317	That's us! I'm the team contact!
03:52	dholbach	congratulations :)
03:52	freelancer317	Our application page is http://wiki.ubuntu.com/PennsylvaniaTeam/ApprovalApplication
03:52	Zic	jsgotangco: ok ... thx
03:52	jsgotangco	Bret?
03:52	freelancer317	Congrats to Brazil!
03:52	jsgotangco	ahh
03:52	pleia2	I'm here for pennsylvania too :)
03:52	AndreNoel	thanks!!
03:52	freelancer317	That's me
03:52	OgMaciel	:)
03:52	jedijf	pa here
03:52	rpereira	Thanks everybody. :)
03:52	Joe_CoT	I'm not from Pennsylvania, but i live very close!
03:52	jedijf	congrats serbia and brazil!!
03:52	lamalex	PA here
=== etank is cheering for pennsylvania \o/
03:52	Ubuntuser	this is begin... ;)
03:52	teddy-dbear	Pa here
03:52	freelancer317	Thank you for the opportunity to review our application to become and approved Local Community Team! First off we wouldn't be here if it wasn't for the great people who have joined this team, and although I started it, without them, there would be no application in front of you now, nor would there be for a very long time.
=== andrew is here for PA
03:53	freelancer317	The US-Pennsylvania LoCo Team was established in March by freelancer317 (Bret Fledderjohn) with the assistance of Vorian (Ohio Team Contact). Since that time, we have grown to 51 direct members on Launchpad. We have also established strong bonds with active LUGs, had four successful events, and are building several ongoing projects and events which will not only spread the word about Ubuntu, but also (in many
03:53	freelancer317	cases) will help make our local communities better places.
03:54	freelancer317	http://www.meetlinux.com is our website.
03:54	dholbach	what has the team been concentrating on in the last time? how did you find new members?
03:54	freelancer317	We've initially been working with LUGs and several Nonprofits
03:55	lamalex	We've been working with a lot of non-profits to help under priveleged people benefit from technology and free software
03:55	freelancer317	the forum and Launchpad have also been attracting alot of attention
03:55	jedijf	and with local lugs to cross-promote events
03:55	freelancer317	We had a joint installfest with the Central PA LUG and we had our own installfest in Philly
03:55	jsgotangco	i see lots of activites with non-profits on the website
03:56	jedijf	that is an ongoing thing - now that we've started relationships, the projects flow from one to the next
=== myriam_rs cheers for US-Pennsilvania LoCo Team too!
03:57	dholbach	that sounds good - launchpad says you have 55 members - do you have a chance to meet often as a team?
03:57	pleia2	thanks myriam_rs :)
03:57	freelancer317	We are also putting together a statewide media contact list, and will have a subteam working on distributing press releases and interacting with the media
03:57	lamalex	not in person as a whole team
03:57	lamalex	pennsylvania is a large state
03:57	freelancer317	dholbach outside of irc meetings, no
03:57	jedijf	weekly irc chats
03:57	lamalex	wednesday nights, 8:30pm est
03:57	jedijf	and active daily irc contact
03:57	jsgotangco	yeah i saw the calendar
03:57	freelancer317	we have subteams that cover the different regions
03:58	Vorian	Pennsylvania has been doing wonderful things in the name of Ubuntu.  I strongly recommend them for a +1
03:58	freelancer317	Thanks Vorian
03:58	jsgotangco	how is the team preparing for SFD?
=== etank agrees with Vorian
03:58	jedijf	we are promoting a major event with PACS - phila area computer society -
03:58	lamalex	philly team is working with the philly area computer society for a large bbq/speech/party
03:59	freelancer317	Well, there is an event being planned up in the northeastern part of the state. Philly is planning a big thing with PACS, and Harrisburg is working with CPULG
03:59	jedijf	providing a speaker and demonstrations from 8 am to 3 pm
03:59	freelancer317	oops cplug
03:59	lamalex	:P
03:59	freelancer317	we hope to have an event in most major cities and towns in PA
03:59	freelancer317	Pittsburgh is in the infancy of developing the event
04:00	dholbach	nice - the team looks well organized to me
04:00	lamalex	they are beginning to form in pittsburg
04:00	lamalex	there is interest, but it hasn't fully come together. Progress is being made and other regions are encouraging them
04:00	freelancer317	dholbach thanks!  We've got a real good core group of people working to get this going
04:00	jsgotangco	a lot of stuff looks solid to me as well, but i advice taking advantage of SFD to have a big get-together, should be fun, the bbq party is a nice touch, i give my +1
04:01	dholbach	I'm happy to give a +1 for Pennsylvania as well
04:01	MikeB-	+1 for me
04:01	freelancer317	thanks dholbach and jsgotangco and MikeB!
04:01	dholbach	elmo?
04:02	elmo	+1
04:02	dholbach	congratulations! :)
=== lamalex throws his cap
04:02	dholbach	ok, let's move on to member applications
04:02	myriam_rs	Congratulations from the SwissTeam to Pennsylvania LoCO Team!
04:02	pleia2	thanks everyone!
04:02	dholbach	bashelier: it's your stage
04:02	Vorian	Yay Pennsylvania!!!!!!
04:02	freelancer317	thanks myriam_rs!
04:02	Vorian	Congrats!1
04:02	bashelier	:)
04:02	bashelier	Hello, my name is Arthur, I'm a "long" date (almost 4 years iirc) Debian user and began using Ubuntu on Hoary release. After a few years of using then, I've tried to get a bit involved in development, and started with packaging. Since I've packed a couple of softs and quickly decided to upload them in Debian rather than in Ubuntu, first because I'd rather see my packages in all Debian-based distributions and not just in Ubuntu, second becau
04:02	freelancer317	Thanks to everyone!
04:02	bashelier	here is my wikipage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArthurLoiret
04:03	dholbach	bashelier: your first paste was truncated
=== pygi vouches for bashelier, as he doesn't mind working at 4AM :P
04:03	dholbach	bashelier: "... just in Ubuntu, second beca"
04:04	bashelier	dholbach: here it is... http://pastebin.ca/590296
04:04	dholbach	"...second because I was also very interested in contributing to Debian. Today, I'm trying to do my best to make clean packages, sync, merges, bug fixes, patches, and began to set up a few Debian/Ubuntu related projects."
04:04	bashelier	second because I was also very interested in contributing to Debian. Today, I'm trying to do my best to make clean packages, sync, merges, bug fixes, patches, and began to set up a few Debian/Ubuntu related projects.
04:04	bashelier	yup :)
04:04	Sp4rKy	^^
04:05	dholbach	bashelier: what are you further plans in the MOTU world?
04:06	bashelier	dholbach: I'd like to be able to offer mentoring to new packagers on french irc classroom chans in a first time
04:06	jsgotangco	anyone here advocating for bashelier?
=== Adri2000 +1's bashelier for his great involvement in many part of Ubuntu, especially in packaging :)
04:06	jsgotangco	Burgundavia: !
04:06	dholbach	there seems to be a lot of good stuff going on in the french motu community - do you think the MOTU community at large could learn from them?
04:06	pygi	jsgotangco, I am
04:06	Adri2000	parts* :)
04:06	effraie	+1 here too :)
04:06	pygi	jsgotangco, +1 for him
04:07	Burgundavia	ugh. 7am. Morning everybody
04:07	jsgotangco	=)
04:07	pygi	morning Burgundavia
04:07	Hobbsee	morning Burgundavia
04:07	dholbach	hi Burgundavia
04:07	bashelier	dholbach: could... the french community is iirc the oly one whose has a classroom chan, to help
04:07	Sp4rKy	if it's really needed, +1 for bashelier and all the great work he has already done
04:07	bashelier	:)
04:08	gsuveg	re
04:08	dholbach	great - it'd be nice to hear more about that, but maybe not in this meeting
04:08	bashelier	dholbach: packages from french new packagers are reviewed almost every days on #ubuntu-fr-classroom, for example
04:08	dholbach	that's amazing - it'd be nice if we could adapt that
04:09	effraie	but packaging is one one of the many goals for *classroom ^^
04:09	dholbach	right
04:09	gpocentek	french people are very bad english speaker, we needed to do something ;)
04:09	effraie	^^
04:09	Sp4rKy	gpocentek: +1
04:09	bashelier	^^'
04:09	dholbach	as I've worked together with bashelier before, I don't have any more questions - MikeB-, jsgotangco, elmo?
04:09	jsgotangco	i'm good +1
04:09	MikeB-	none here, looks like a very well done app
04:09	MikeB-	+1
04:10	Zic	bashelier is involved on other projects in ubuntu-fr-classroom (see his wiki page)
04:10	elmo	+1
04:10	dholbach	+1 - bashelier did excellent work in the MOTU team already, so hope to see him as a MOTU soon :)
04:10	dholbach	thanks bashelier
04:10	gpocentek	congrats bashelier :)
04:10	jsgotangco	congrats!
04:10	bashelier	thanks :)
04:10	dholbach	viperio does not seem to be around
04:10	Sp4rKy	congrats !!!
=== myriam_rs flicite bashelier :-)
04:10	effraie	\o/ bashelier
04:10	bashelier	myriam_rs: :]
04:10	dholbach	effraie: your stage
04:10	jsgotangco	ok effraie nxt
04:11	effraie	so, hello all
04:11	effraie	i'm the perrfect example of french bad english spoker
04:11	bashelier	+1!
=== bashelier runs
04:11	effraie	I'm 25 year old educator: i work in french public hospital, with psychotic teenagers. I know, it's really not related to ubuntu ^^ (but very close related to me)
04:11	effraie	Ubuntu related pages: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Effraie | https://launchpad.net/~effraie
04:11	effraie	I'm linux user since mandrake 9.2 (2001 if i correctly remember) and ubuntu user since warty stable release.
04:11	effraie	As powerpc user, my first involvment in ubuntu was contributing in ppc section on french ubuntu forums.
04:12	effraie	I setted up a third-part repository ( http://mental-ppc.tuxfamily.org/ ) with a friend, in order to provide some missing and/or buggy packages for ppc arch ( i think i was the first to release beryl & e17 packages for ppc, and i provide an xkb-data including a correct french apple keymap (2 examples the kind of packages we can provide).Now, i'm building medibuntu-ppc packages.
04:12	effraie	I did learn to package on #ubuntu-fr-classroom (with gpocentek, mr_pouit...) and that classroom was my second most important involvment in ubuntu: i think that kind of project is a *very* powerfull way to involved new people in free software, and to make their skills growing up.
04:12	effraie	That project is still growing up, and is certainly now the main place for "power-user" involvement in french ubuntu community.
04:12	effraie	I did wrote many pieces of french "ubuntu on powerpc" documentation (see http://blog.effraie.org/tag/PowerPC ). I did really recently crashed my ibook, but it was the beginning for a new project i launched with bashelier: MefaB, wich stand for "mental farm buildd", wich main goal is to provide an easy way for repository admins and users to set up or contribute for decentralized build-farm.
04:12	effraie	After have maintaining ubuntu-fr website for some time, i'm now one of the 2 "new" fr locoteam administrator. (cause the 3 currents admins are slowly switching to new/others projects/stuffs )
04:12	effraie	well...
04:13	effraie	done :|
04:13	bashelier	I *fully* support effraie's application, he has shown he was involved in many parts of Ubuntu tasks, in the french community
04:13	fernando	bashelier, congrats
04:13	bashelier	thanks fernando
04:13	gpocentek	effraie is very very active in the french community since a while
04:13	skateinmars	As a french ubuntu user (planet member, irc channels moderator), I'd like to advocate for effraie as he is really active in the french community.
04:13	dholbach	effraie: it seems that none of your packages made it into Ubuntu yet - do you have plans for your packages to go into Ubuntu proper?
04:14	Adri2000	all the french community supports effraie's application! :) I do as well :)
04:14	effraie	well, most of the package i did build was still in ubuntu, but not suitable on powerpc
04:14	effraie	they are, now
04:14	dholbach	ah ok, what about e17?
04:15	effraie	well, i think rasterman has some reason for not including e17 in ubuntu, that's not *really* my business. but
04:15	effraie	i'm building packages for the
04:15	Sp4rKy	effraie help me and lutin on E17 repository
04:15	effraie	ubuntu related edevelop repo
04:15	Sp4rKy	helps*
04:16	effraie	so, if the get into ubuntu..
04:16	seb128	why not sending patches for buggy packages and contributing to MOTU rather than distributing there elsewhere?
04:16	dholbach	I just know that there have been many people who asked for e17 packages already - it'd be great to have them
04:16	bashelier	here is a sample of one of effraie's projects, take a look :) http://mefab.ff-irc.net/
04:16	Sp4rKy	dholbach: indeed, we're agree with you
04:16	effraie	seb128: cause i was really not enough involved in community when i begin to do this
04:17	Sp4rKy	anyway, rasterman, the main dev of E17, doesn't want we include this wm in official repos
=== myriam_rs would love to see e17 in Ubuntu too, one of the best looking shell-managers ever
04:17	Zic	because E17 is still in development
04:17	effraie	s/dev/huge dev
04:17	Zic	:)
04:17	Sp4rKy	so we built a third party repository, and effraie manages the ppc builds
04:17	Sp4rKy	myriam_rs: there is a 3rd party repo :)
04:18	dholbach	ok, let's move the e17 discussion to some other place - I didn't want to stir that up
04:18	dholbach	effraie: do you plan to become a MOTU?
04:18	myriam_rs	Sp4rKy: I know, I already use e17 in Ubuntu :-)
04:18	effraie	but, the main moint of this application is ubuntu-fr locoteam, not my packaging stuff, i think
04:18	effraie	so, dholbach why not, but it's not my main goal
04:18	effraie	s/moint/point
04:18	dholbach	I'd encourage you :)
04:19	effraie	thanks ^^
04:19	jsgotangco	effraie: right, thanks for pointing that out, i was about to ask about your plans for the loco
04:19	effraie	ubuntu fr locoteam is a huge community, and there a lot of work
04:19	dholbach	for how long have you been involved in the loco?
04:20	effraie	well, the fr loco is an asociation, covered by french law
04:20	effraie	the, the "offficial" membership is a bit complex
04:20	dholbach	I need to step out for just a few minutes - we should still have quorum with Burgundavia around though. brb.
04:20	Burgundavia	ok
04:20	effraie	i'm acting in it from 1 or 2 years
04:21	effraie	but i''m an "official" member still 3 or 4 month
04:21	Burgundavia	what are the requirements to get in?
04:21	effraie	be involved
04:21	effraie	but the main point is not to be "official" membeer
04:22	effraie	there is only 9 official member
04:22	effraie	cause of law related complexity
04:22	effraie	but
04:22	Burgundavia	aside from being a member and the website stuff, what else have you been doing with the -fr locoteam?
04:22	effraie	the main core for ubuntu-fr community is about 20/30 people
04:23	effraie	well, i'm working on french planet, forums, parties, -classroom...
04:23	jsgotangco	french parties? =)
04:23	effraie	representaion, contact with other french free software organisations
04:23	effraie	jsgotangco: yep
04:23	bashelier	jsgotangco: we got 1300 people on last french install party
04:24	jsgotangco	0_0
04:24	Zic	jsgotangco: and a second edition is planned
04:24	effraie	and for the next one, we did invitte sam hocevar, new DPL
04:24	Zic	about Ubuntu Studio version
04:24	bashelier	:)
04:24	effraie	for a talk
04:24	jsgotangco	nice
04:24	jsgotangco	based on activities, I'm happy to give +1
04:25	effraie	one of my prefered project is the classroom channel
04:25	effraie	wich is a very powerfull medium to involved
04:25	effraie	-d people
04:25	jsgotangco	ok
04:25	jsgotangco	any more questions for effraie?
04:25	MikeB-	none here +1
04:26	effraie	:)
04:26	Burgundavia	+1 for me
04:26	johnc4510	:)  i'm here
04:26	dholbach	+1 from me too
04:26	jsgotangco	great!
04:26	dholbach	congratulations effraie
04:26	Sp4rKy	congrats effraie :)
04:26	gpocentek	congrats effraie ! :)
04:26	lamalex	congrats!
04:26	Adri2000	congrats effraie!
04:26	effraie	thanks :)
04:27	bashelier	congrats effraie!
04:27	jsgotangco	johnc4510: go for it
04:27	Zic	congrats effraie \o/
04:27	johnc4510	Hi, I'm John Crawford (Ubuntero) A founding member and team leader of the Ubuntu-Arizona Loco Team. Here is my wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Johnc4510?action=show and our team page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam?action=show and my Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~johnc4510-cox Thank you for your consideration. :->
=== myriam_rs flicitations effraie!
04:27	effraie	thank you, myriam_rs
04:27	jsgotangco	"The hottest loco on earth"
=== br24 from AZ team is here for johnc4510
04:27	Vorian	I'm here to cheer for johnc4510!!!
04:27	johnc4510	ty br24
04:27	Vorian	johnc4510 has been the driving force behind the Arizona LoCo team.  He lives the values of Ubuntu, and is open to accepting all who wish to participate on the Arizona team.  John thoughtfully sends out weekly newsletters to all in the team.  I strongly recommend a +1 for johnc4510
04:27	johnc4510	ty Vorian
04:27	johnc4510	:)
04:27	br24	johnc4510 has provided good direction for all members of the AZ team in reaching our goals
04:28	jsonder	John4510 _is_ organized
04:28	etank	I would like to cheer for johnc4510. He and his team have been doing some great stuff. Our team (Kentucky) has benefited from some of the ideas that he has started.
04:28	johnc4510	jsonder: ty
04:28	johnc4510	etank: ty
04:28	MikeB-	atoponce asked me to send this endorsement of johnc4510
04:28	etank	+1 for johnc4510 from me
04:28	MikeB-	johnc4510 has been a great asset to the az team. they have flourished under his leadership and are easily heading for team approval. it would be a great asset to the ubuntu membership to add him as member
=== johnc4510 thanks atoponce
04:29	jsgotangco	its also listed in his wiki page
04:29	dholbach	johnc4510: you say you want to structure the goals for the az team - do you have any plans already?
04:30	johnc4510	our plans are to advocate ubuntu and open source
04:30	johnc4510	we want to pull in the lugs in state to begin with
04:30	johnc4510	also to use libraries to distribute cd's
04:31	johnc4510	also use colleges for demos
04:31	johnc4510	we are a new team     just since april 12 of 05
04:32	johnc4510	organizing has been our first goal
04:32	johnc4510	now on to spreading ubuntu
04:32	johnc4510	:P\
04:32	dholbach	did you have any problems/challenges with the organisation?
04:32	johnc4510	not really, things kind of feel into place
04:33	johnc4510	over 40 members in launchpad in 2 months
04:33	johnc4510	:)
04:33	Vorian	WOW!
04:33	Vorian	:)
=== johnc4510 says Vorian has been a great help
=== johnc4510 says atoponce also
04:34	jsgotangco	looks good to me
04:34	johnc4510	team members have been exceptional
=== br24 says AZ team would not be here without johnc4510
04:34	johnc4510	br24: ty
04:34	dholbach	any more questions?
04:34	jsgotangco	i give my +1
04:35	etank	woot johnc4510
04:35	johnc4510	My thanks to all, especially Vorian, atoponce, etank , br24 and jsonder for coming.
04:35	dholbach	+1 from me too - lots of good contributions and good coordination with other teams
=== johnc4510 thanks all
04:35	MikeB-	+1 for me, fantastic work
04:35	johnc4510	MikeB-: ty
04:35	dholbach	Burgundavia, elmo?
04:35	Burgundavia	+1 from me
04:35	dholbach	congratulations johnc4510 :)
04:35	effraie	congrats johnc4510 :)
04:36	Vorian	CONGRATS JOHNC4510!!!!!!
04:36	johnc4510	dholbach: ty
04:36	Vorian	\o/
04:36	br24	congrats johnc4510!!!
04:36	dholbach	Jacob: your stage
04:36	jsgotangco	johnc4510: keep it up! may the AZ team be hotter by august
=== johnc4510 smiles
04:36	Jacob	Hi! I'm Jacob Peddicord, otherwise known as jacobmp92 or just Jacob. I've been using Ubuntu for a little more than a year now, and I'm currently running Gutsy regardless of all warnings ;). My wiki page is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JacobPeddicord & LP: https://launchpad.net/~jacobmp92
04:36	johnc4510	jsgotangco: hope so
=== myriam_rs congrats johnc4510 :-)
04:36	johnc4510	myriam_rs: ty
04:36	Jacob	I've been a member of the Ohio LoCo Team since back when it started in late November. I help run our IRC channel and website. I also wrote the support system used on the site, currently available to LoCo teams on Launchpad as "loco-drupal-support".
04:36	Jacob	I also am currently the leader for the Unanswered Posts Team on the forums. While this team is relatively new, we currently have some interesting methods for dealing with topics, one of them including an off-site tracker used internally by the team.
04:36	Jacob	My future plans include releasing some tools to help new LoCo teams to get a website up and running with Drupal quickly, going to Ohio Linux Fest, and continuing to use and support Ubuntu. </Jacob>
04:37	Vorian	:)
04:37	Vorian	I'm here to cheer for Jacob!
04:37	Vorian	Jacob is one of the strongest members on the Ohio LoCo team.  He is the Moderator of the Ohio LoCo Forum.  He it the Team Leader of the Unanswered Posts team on Ubuntu Forums.  He is the webmaster for the Ohio LoCo team.
04:37	jsgotangco	nice team
04:37	jsgotangco	=)
04:37	Vorian	He developed the F2F (Face To Face Support) Feature for the Ohio Website http://Ohio.ubuntu-us.org. Which is described here http://vorian.org/?p=64. Jacob cleaned up the code so that all loco teams could have it (even Canonical was asking for it) If it weren't't for Jacob, our LoCo team would be half of what it is today.
04:37	Admiral_Chicago	which rocks btw, I came to give him a big up just for that system.
04:37	Jacob	thanks Vorian :)
04:37	meatballhat	I'm also here to cheer for Jacob!   Jacob has been a great asset to our LoCo Team, and I strongly believe that he will be an even greater asset to the Ubuntu Community as a whole.  He has the technical background to grow into a strong member of the developement community, and also has interpersonal communication skills that are hard to come by.  for member in OhioLoCoTeam: meatballhat.cheers(Jacob)
04:37	Vorian	Besides all that, Jacob is a stand up gentleman and a scholar, well deserving of Ubuntu Membership.
04:37	Jacob	thanks also meatballhat :)
04:38	jsgotangco	Jacob: what would you like to focus in the coming days/months?
04:39	phanatic	dholbach: i'm here to cheer for coNP, but have to run now, so here is my testimonial: as the loco leader for the hungarian ubuntu team, i can tell that he's been a great help with administering our virtual machine, and also helped to organize super cool ubuntu t-shirts for the masses in hungary. i hope he'll become an ubuntu member, he deserves it (i've also seen several uploads by him recently :))
04:39	Jacob	jsgotangco: I'd like to focus my work probably around the LoCo tool systems i've been developing
04:39	dholbach	thanks phanatic
04:39	etank	I would like to cheer for Jacob as well. Our team has started using the F2F module that he wrote. He is always willing to help and seems to be a great guy.
04:39	Jacob	:)
04:40	jsgotangco	ok
04:41	jsgotangco	there are lots of testimonials happening
04:41	gsuveg	dholbach: i need run out within 20min too. im work with coNP on website and t-shirt project. i hope to he'll become an umbuntu member.
04:41	Vorian	jsgotangco, that's because jacob is so awesome :)
04:41	Jacob	hehe
04:41	etank	amen
04:42	jsgotangco	judging from LP activity, its all good
04:42	jsgotangco	happy to give +1
04:42	Burgundavia	if people need to give a testimonial, PM any of teh CC members and we can paste it when it is time
04:42	MikeB-	+1 here
04:42	dholbach	how many members does the unansweredposts team have?
04:43	jsgotangco	oh yeah
04:43	Jacob	dholbach: somewhere around 25 currently I think
04:43	Jacob	http://ubuntuforums.org/showgroups.php at the bottom
04:43	dholbach	nice - keep up the good work on that - I think it's a fabulous idea
04:43	dholbach	+1 from me too
04:43	jsgotangco	answering the unanswered posts in a sensible way?
04:43	jsgotangco	=)
04:43	Jacob	yep:)
04:44	jsgotangco	rock, just like blatant erros and awkward grammar ;-)
04:44	Vorian	His team does an awesome job with that jsgotangco
04:44	Jacob	heh
04:44	Burgundavia	+1 from me
04:44	jsgotangco	great, Burgundavia, elmo?
04:44	jsgotangco	nice!
04:44	jsgotangco	congrats Jacob!
04:44	Jacob	:-D
04:44	jsgotangco	Joe_CoT: next
04:44	Joe_CoT	:)
04:45	etank	congrats Jacob
04:45	Vorian	\o/ Jacob !!!!!!!
04:45	Joe_CoT	Hello. I'm Joe Terranova, and I'm the team leader for the New Jersey Local Community Team. Since I took over the team in November, I've been working to get our team active and approved, and I've been organizing events and recruiting in the New Jersey Area. As well, I've been working with the Pennsylvania team to help them with their events in the Philly area as they got started as a team.
=== myriam_rs sends congratulations to Jacob:-)
04:45	Joe_CoT	I'm happy to see the Pennsylvania Team get approved today, and hopefully I'll be back here with my team in the following months. My approval application is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JoeTerranova
=== christinaeater cheers for Joe_CoT
04:45	Jacob	thanks etank, Vorian, meatballhat, and anyone else i missed :)
=== jedijf cheers from pa for Joe_CoT
04:45	johnc4510	Jacob: congrats
04:45	pleia2	I'm here to support Joe_CoT, I've worked with him on a couple projects with the PA LoCo team, he did a whole presentation about Ubuntu at one of our events that had a pretty outstanding audience and reception
=== etank cheers for Joe_CoT too :)
04:46	lamalex	yay joe_cot +1!!
=== Vorian cheers for Joe_CoT as well :)
04:46	Joe_CoT	lamalex, you're not on the CC, but thanks ;D
04:46	lamalex	hah not yet
04:46	MikeB-	he is a thumbs up from atoponce for joe_CoT: <atoponce> Joe_CoT has been very active in the US Teams project, willing to help where he can. he's been a great asset to both the NJ team (his home team) and the PA team, and very active in the community. he would make a great addition as well
04:46	etank	i second what atoponce had to say.
04:47	Burgundavia	let me say again how pleased I am that the US teams are helping each other out this way
04:47	jsgotangco	i agree
04:47	Joe_CoT	hey, PA's only a bridge away :)
04:47	jsgotangco	and the NJ team photo looksl ike that of a rock band
04:47	dholbach	Joe_CoT: what have you been focusing on in getting the loco team started?
04:47	Joe_CoT	jedijf has been flyering for my NJ event for weeks
=== jedijf likes joisey and Joe_CoT
04:48	jsgotangco	how did the june installfest go
04:48	Joe_CoT	We had 2 regional meetings to get people interested; one in South Jersey, one in Central. I've been recruiting at the local LUGs, and working with them for events -- we're having an installfest with CHLUG this saturday.
04:48	Joe_CoT	Hopefully another with Princeton LUG in August.
04:49	jsgotangco	oopss it hasnt happened yet
04:49	Joe_CoT	I did a presentation at Cherry Hill LUG which picked up 3 members, we've gathered a few for Lug/IP, and I'll be in princeton in August for a stump speech there
04:49	jsgotangco	nice preparation though
04:49	Joe_CoT	thanks
04:50	jsgotangco	"he is always just a bridge toll away"
04:51	jsgotangco	:D
04:51	Joe_CoT	We have 48 members on Launchpad -- in reality, around 4 or 5 active. Hopefully I'll get that number a bit higher soon, and I'll be back here for my team ;)
04:51	jedijf	and on most days he can scrape up the toll :)
04:51	jsgotangco	i think that's a very good start
04:51	jsgotangco	hmm hold on someone's screaming outside and its past 10pm here
04:51	jsgotangco	brb
04:52	dholbach	MikeB-, Burgundavia, elmo: any more questions for Joe_CoT?
04:52	Burgundavia	nope
04:52	dholbach	Joe_CoT has my thumbs up too: +1 - good work on leading the team
04:52	Burgundavia	+1 for another excellent US team
04:52	MikeB-	nope +1
04:53	Joe_CoT	elmo? :)
04:53	dholbach	ok, shall we move on? elmo and jsgotangco (hope everything's alright at his end) will cast their votes in a bit
04:54	elmo	+1
04:54	dholbach	great
04:54	dholbach	welcome Joe_CoT
=== jedijf congratulates Joe_CoT - next toll is on me :)
04:54	Joe_CoT	:) thanks guys, and thanks to everyone who came to support me
04:54	etank	congrats Joe_CoT
04:54	dholbach	coreymoon77 does not seem to be around
04:54	Jacob	congrats Joe_CoT!
04:54	dholbach	calc: your stage
=== myriam_rs congrats Joe_CoT
04:54	jsgotangco	doh
04:54	calc	Hello, my name is Chris. I've been a Linux user since Slackware 2.1 (03/1995). I have been involved with Debian for 9 years, and a Debian Developer for 7 of those. I have maintained various packages for Debian including KDE and Xiph.org packages. I also wrote kde.mk for cdbs and menu-xdg. I have used Ubuntu since the 4.10 preview (Sept 2004), and am the new Ubuntu OpenOffice.org maintainer.
04:54	lamalex	yay joe!!
04:54	ogra	yay calc !
04:54	Vorian	congats Joe_CoT :)
04:54	jsgotangco	a neighbor had his tv really loud and was watching big brother sheeshh
=== ogra cheers
04:54	keescook	\o/ calc
04:55	jsgotangco	i'm +1 for Joe_CoT
04:56	bryce	yay calc!
04:56	asac	hey calc!
=== pochu cheers calc. He's been doing a great job with all kind of bugs, and helping out!
04:56	calc	hello everyone :)
04:56	Riddell	I support calc, Kubuntu uses much of his KDE work
04:57	dholbach	calc: I've seen you quite often around in ubuntu channels, even before you become OO.o maintainer - when did you join the ubuntu community?
04:58	calc	dholbach: i started using ubuntu and joined the irc channels around Sept 2004
04:58	jsgotangco	right
04:58	ogra	dholbach, he was around in #ubuntu when both of us were no motus yet :)
04:58	jsgotangco	lots of history
04:59	dholbach	on your way with the community, did you see things you'd like to see improved in Ubuntu and the community as a whole?
04:59	calc	i remember using ubuntu on my amd64 laptop at Gnome Summit 2004 which was early oct 2004
05:01	calc	one place i saw that could use some improvement is that Texas doesn't have loco yet, there is a Dallas loco and Houston has a few people that have started one, but needs more coordination
05:01	calc	i have been thinking about trying to help out with the Houston one or trying to form a state loco
05:02	dholbach	nice
05:02	calc	Houston's meetings seem to occur mostly on the south side which is ~ 70mi away
05:02	jsgotangco	yeah i noticed that on the wiki page
05:03	dinda	calc: there are several folks from the Woodlands who want meetings up there
05:03	calc	dinda: that sounds good then, i know several people in Huntsville that also want to have a group, so that could work out nicely
05:04	dholbach	Burgundavia, jsgotangco, elmo, MikeB-: questions?
05:04	calc	dinda: Conroe is around 20-30m away from both locations
05:04	jsgotangco	i'm pretty happy +1
05:04	Burgundavia	seems good to me
05:04	Burgundavia	+!
05:04	jsgotangco	i'm surprised though that its only now
05:04	elmo	presumptive +1
05:04	Burgundavia	+1, rather
=== ScottK says +1 for calc
05:04	dinda	I'm down in Galveston so I end up driving into Houston for meetings and I help organize them
05:05	MikeB-	+1 here
05:05	calc	dinda: ah, yea houston metro is a very large area
05:05	dholbach	+1 from me too, welcome calc
=== elkbuntu ushers the LoCo talk into #ubuntu-locoteams
05:05	calc	thanks all for supporting my application for member :)
05:05	dholbach	I think we've run out of time - is the kernel team around already?
05:05	jsgotangco	yeah
05:05	BenC	yeah :)
05:05	ogra	welcome calc
05:06	dholbach	so sorry everybody for not getting around to your application, we'll announce a new meeting time shortly
05:06	BenC	dholbach: we wait patiently, take your time
05:06	hjmf	oops :(
05:06	hjmf	I was the next one
05:06	bryce	heh, I just missed it
05:06	jsgotangco	let's get to it then
05:06	BenC	dholbach: we have a short kernel meeting, so if you need more time...
05:07	dholbach	elmo, MikeB-, jsgotangco, Burgundavia: do you know who will do the approvals in launchpad?
05:07	jsgotangco	anyone of us can actually do that
05:07	myriam_rs	sad, I was waiting too and don't know if I can make it next time :-(
05:07	jsgotangco	i'll start approving
=== coNP as well / neither
05:07	dholbach	we have 8 more members on the list
05:07	jsgotangco	i don't think we can cover all 8
05:07	coNP	in fact only 7
05:07	MikeB-	I just got a helpdesk call, and have to head out
05:07	WaVeR	:o
05:08	dholbach	ok, better adjourn then.
05:08	MikeB-	sorry all
05:08	dholbach	sorry everybody
05:08	hjmf	:( OK
05:08	peanutb	whens the next one?
05:08	jsgotangco	well just prioritise starting from hjmf
05:09	jsgotangco	in 2 weeks
05:09	jsgotangco	but we'll have to adjust the sched
05:09	peanutb	grr I'll be in europe
05:09	jsgotangco	perhaps 21UTC and up
05:09	hjmf	not sure If I'll be available then, I'm pretty busy
05:09	myriam_rs	could we have a timeslot ASAP? I can't attend during daytime on other days than Mondays and Tuesdays :-(
05:09	dholbach	we'll find a time for everybody
05:10	elkbuntu	dholbach, famous last words
05:10	jsgotangco	we'll make sure to have a sched by next week
05:10	WaVeR	Or check the wiki page for everybody and approve them :D
05:10	dholbach	have a nice day everybody - BenC the channel is all yours
05:10	BenC	dholbach: thanks
</pre>
