{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''20th''' meeting of the '''ServerTeam''', starting at 21:02 UTC and finishing at 22:02 UTC

== Agenda ==

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.
* Forum Reporting - Michael Behrens (faulkes-)

== Minutes ==

==== Status report ====

mathiaz reminded that the Reporting Status wiki page [1] should be updated. He
also added that each section should be expanded each week.

[1]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReportingPage

==== Mentoring program ====

mathiaz asked whether the name of the program should be changed. For now it was
decided to keep the program named mentoring. He updated the mentoring page [2]
with a description of the program.

[2]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Mentoring

==== Forum reporting ====

faulkes- started a project [3] to help categorize, summarize and visualize
forum questions, from a broad level narrowing it down. The backend is written
in perl, it connects to the forum and slices out the forum subject/topics.
faulkes- will publish the code in a LP by next week.

[3]: http://ubuntu.oss-mgmt.com/

ACTION: faulkes- to setup a LP project for the forums analyser.

==== Server survey ====

nijaba has received a lot of good feedback on the test survey. Users can still
help in testing by contacting nijaba [4]. Improvements and bugs are tracked
within the server-survey project in LP [5].

nijaba reported that hosting the real survey hasn't been figured out. faulkes-
wondered where the server survey could be announced.

ACTION: owh to draft a wiki page with a list of resources where we can announce
the survey. He will also draft an announcement email.

[4]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NicolasBarcet
[5]: https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-survey/

==== libdb migration ====

ScottK listed all the packages that still relies on db4.3. He added that this
task is easy to do: 
** grab the source.
** check that transactions are not used (grep'ing the source is enough).
** if transactions are not used, update the build-dep/depends. Otherwise, 
    mark the package and leave it for someone else. Those are harder.

==== Documentation ====

sommer finished the likewise-open section in the Server Guide [6]. Reviews are
welcomed. He added that he'd like to have sections about virtualization, bacula
and ebox. mathiaz suggested to concentrate on virtualization first. He started
a section but doesn't have any hardware supporting KVM, and thus cannot test
it.

[6]: http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/likewise-open.html

sommer also added that the ServerGUI page [7] has been written. Comments are
always welcomed.

[7]: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerGUI

==== Virtualization ====

soren hijacked #ubuntu-virt IRC channel. This is now the canonical place for
virtualization development and support.                            
                                                                                
He also created ubuntu-virt team on Launchpad for:
# having a PPA for backporting stuff to get more testers
# having a team as bug contact for all the cool (i.e. virtualisation related)     packages.             

He disabled non-accelerated kvm. This enabled it to build with gcc 4.x,  so
that it could get promoted to main.

ubuntu-vm-builder accepted into the archive with a fix for new qemu-img sanity
checks.

soren prepared kvm-userspace-62 for upload.  The kernel needs to be updated as
well before pushing it. soren also needs to ask the release team for an ffe. 

==== AppArmor profiles ====

jdstrand migrated/created AppArmor profiles for mysqld, named, and slapd.
These have been uploaded to hardy.

==== Security hardening ====

kees continued hardening-wrapper testing. He uncovered issues with
assembly-using source packages not being PIE-sane.

==== MIR for server packages ====

zul fixed initscripts as a result of the MIR comment. He also assigned Ubuntu
Server Team as contact address for bug reports for all the packages that have
been moved to main as part of this Spec.

He uploaded new versions of openvpn, aoetools, and openipmi.

==== Ebox ====

zul has uploaded a new version of ebox in his PPA [1]. More testers are
welcomed.

[1]: https://launchpad.net/~zulcss/+archive

==== Agree on next meeting date and time ====

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, March 5th at 21:00 UTC in

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[21:02:15] <dendrobates> o/
[21:02:21] <jdstrand> \o
[21:02:30] <mathiaz> so - let's get started
[21:02:35] <mathiaz> current agenda for today: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[21:02:49] <jdstrand> \/o
[21:03:12] <michalski> not alot on the agenda
[21:03:18] <nijaba> >o
[21:03:19] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
[21:03:37] <soren> 
[21:03:41] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080220
[21:04:25] <mathiaz> As you may have noticed, I've sent a link to the new reporting page
[21:04:41] <soren> 
[21:04:48] * faulkes- did
[21:04:58] <mathiaz> So I'd like to remind everyone to update the ReportingPage
[21:05:12] * nijaba hides
[21:05:25] <michalski> whats nijiba's email? I want to join his beta test
[21:05:31] <keescook> mathiaz: so, e.g. for my bits, should I just keep this up to date week-to-week?
[21:05:38] <mathiaz> keescook: yes
[21:05:38] <keescook> (i.e. delete an old entry?)
[21:05:39] * michalski grabs nijaba and hauls him out of his hiding spot
[21:05:52] <mathiaz> I'm still wondering if we should have a weekly page
[21:05:58] <mathiaz> or if the monthly page is enough
[21:06:10] <nijaba> michalski: just msg'd it to you
[21:06:14] <michalski> do we have enough for a weekly?
[21:06:18] <mathiaz> for now - just update the ReportingPage with a status report from last week
[21:06:18] <michalski> k thanks
[21:06:37] <keescook> mathiaz: and if a section of the roadmap is finished, remove myself from the ReportingPage ?
[21:06:56] <mathiaz> keescook: nope - ReportingPage is to know what we did
[21:07:07] <mathiaz> keescook: it will be removed once the MonthlyReport is done.
[21:07:19] <mathiaz> That's a difference between the ReportingPage and the Roadmap
[21:07:25] <michalski> supper, back in 20, sorry mathiaz
[21:07:26] * nealmcb returns to eir computer
[21:07:30] <mathiaz> the Roadmap is about the future and ReportingPage is about the past
[21:08:36] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] mentoring program name
[21:09:02] <mathiaz> dendrobates suggested the use sheperd
[21:09:08] <mathiaz> a shepherd
[21:09:33] <mathiaz> using mentor reminds of the MOTU mentoring program
[21:09:50] <faulkes-> pathfinder ?
[21:09:53] * mruiz agrees
[21:10:06] <faulkes-> although shepherd is fine with me as well
[21:10:15] <mathiaz> and we're not trying to compete with the MOTU mentoring program
[21:10:20] * faulkes- nods
[21:10:25] <Jeeves_> pathfinder reminds me of a car
[21:11:09] <ScottK> I think mentor is fine. Debian uses it too. It's sufficiently generic.
[21:12:12] <owh> Would it be a good idea to ask the people who will be mentored?
[21:12:41] <mathiaz> owh: who will be ? or who would be a mentor ?
[21:13:09] <owh> I mean, the customer, the person that will receive the mentoring.
[21:13:24] <mathiaz> for now, I'll be the contact for users who want to embark on the mentoring program.
[21:13:43] <faulkes-> I think that would indicate a lack of planning on our part if we have to ask them what we want to name the program
[21:13:45] * ScottK thinks we probably have more important details to obsess over.
[21:13:52] * faulkes- agrees
[21:14:22] <owh> Ah, we're talking about naming the thing :-) NM
[21:14:26] * nealmcb looks around for the best summary-to-date of the concept - is it one-to-one? or might the mentor hand someone off to a subject-matter-expert? length of time involved?
[21:14:27] <mathiaz> ok - so I'll keep the mentoring name for now
[21:14:37] <mruiz> the name is just a detail
[21:15:07] <mathiaz> for now, I've summarized my ideas about the Mentoring program on a wiki page
[21:15:11] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Mentoring
[21:15:13] <nealmcb> :-)
[21:16:08] <mathiaz> so - let's move on
[21:16:29] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Forum reporting
[21:16:36] <mathiaz> faulkes-: any news on that ?
[21:16:39] <faulkes-> yes
[21:16:57] <faulkes-> first, the sticky has been put in place, it has been up for a week and has seen 180 views
[21:17:04] <faulkes-> about ~30 / day or so
[21:17:39] <dendrobates> faulkes-: I noticed the sticky is locked for comments. I
[21:18:09] <faulkes-> next, I began a project to help categorize, summarize and visualize forum questions, from a broad level narrowing it down
[21:18:26] <mathiaz> faulkes-: that looks promising
[21:18:39] <jdstrand> dendrobates: you were cut-off at ...comments. I
[21:18:41] <faulkes-> dendrobates: yes, it is locked, I will add a note asking for any additions or changes to be sent to me
[21:19:09] <faulkes-> otherwise it tends to grow and the original content gets last paged, which makes it less than useful
[21:19:13] <dendrobates> faulkes-: I was wondering about general feedback, though
[21:19:37] <faulkes-> understood, I will look into addressing that
[21:19:52] <faulkes-> as I was saying, visualizing forum questions
[21:20:25] <faulkes-> the purpose behind it is to give that "a picture is worth a thousand words" feeling, so that we can easily see what the most common areas of discussion are
[21:20:41] <faulkes-> and to further be able to drill that down to specific issues
[21:20:55] * nijaba hugs faulkes-
[21:20:59] <faulkes-> version 0.1 is avaiable at http://ubuntu.oss-mgmt.com/
[21:21:13] <faulkes-> for those of you who had a pre-look, it has been updated with additional graphs
[21:21:40] * nealmcb oohs and ahhs :-)
[21:21:51] <owh> vnice
[21:22:00] <faulkes-> version 0.2 will include further data, such as links to the forum posts themselves and better categorization
[21:22:12] * michalski sits back down
[21:22:24] <mathiaz> faulkes-: great. How does the categorization work ?
[21:22:31] <faulkes-> currently, it is one big regex, it will be moved to a array/hash algorithm to better be able to categorize properly
[21:22:33] <mathiaz> faulkes-: could you give a quick overview ?
[21:23:10] <faulkes-> it's complicated by the nature of human expression and terminology
[21:23:25] <mathiaz> faulkes-: right.
[21:23:47] <faulkes-> i.e. vsftp as an ftp server, would also match in the regex for sftp
[21:23:49] <mathiaz> faulkes-: do you plan to make the code available ?
[21:23:54] <faulkes-> giving a false positive
[21:24:00] <faulkes-> yes, I intend to place the code on LP
[21:24:09] <michalski> where do you get the stats, faulkes?
[21:24:12] <faulkes-> that will be done within the next week
[21:24:19] <michalski> (source)
[21:24:43] <faulkes-> the backend is written in perl, it connects to the forum and slices out the forum subject/topics
[21:25:19] <nealmcb> nice that you seem to distinguish between samba questions that are related directory services vs file serving
[21:25:30] <michalski> ok, so theres no real place to add in your stats
[21:25:42] <faulkes-> add in how?
[21:26:02] <michalski> eg: a little form online to mark off what your servers uses and how
[21:26:04] <nealmcb> can you analyze mailing lists? irc logs?
[21:26:18] <nealmcb> is it message-by-message or topic-by-topic?
[21:26:27] <faulkes-> nealmcb: with some modification, yes, it likely could do that on a topic by topic basis
[21:26:33] <mathiaz> I think it's a good start.
[21:26:43] <nijaba> michalski: faulkes and I are preparing a survey for that
[21:26:49] <faulkes-> message by message is more difficult because multiple things can be related within a single message
[21:26:54] <michalski> ok thanks nijaba
[21:26:55] <mathiaz> Once you've put up the code on LP, some people may start to implement other backends.
[21:26:58] * nealmcb hugs faulkes
[21:27:25] <faulkes-> mathiaz: well, I believe that this provides value to us, but it will likely be a tool other teams can use as well
[21:27:32] <nealmcb> the links to messages will be great
[21:27:35] <mathiaz> faulkes-: I think so too.
[21:27:39] * michalski agrees
[21:27:41] <owh> You could even apply it to all of Ubuntu.
[21:27:47] <mathiaz> faulkes-: but let's start small
[21:27:53] <michalski> experimental
[21:28:00] <faulkes-> yes, I'm taking it step by step right now
[21:28:15] <mathiaz> Fujitsu: and get something usefull for analysing the ubuntu server forums
[21:28:17] <faulkes-> feedback on category naming, sub-categories, and other questions are all welcome
[21:28:30] <mathiaz> faulkes-: ^^
[21:28:36] <mathiaz> Fujitsu: sorry
[21:28:37] <nealmcb> and then try to link things the other way - from common questions back to documentation, faqs and wikis, and identify outages in those
[21:28:51] <mathiaz> right - so there are a lot of ideas to improve.
[21:28:54] <owh> faulkes-: Would it be useful to make the configuration of all of that a wiki page?
[21:28:55] <mathiaz> let's start small
[21:28:59] <faulkes-> agreed
[21:29:19] <mathiaz> faulkes-: so - could you setup a LP project and push your code there ?
[21:29:25] <faulkes-> yes, I will do that
[21:29:28] <mathiaz> faulkes-: we'll take it from there.
[21:29:47] <faulkes-> add it as an action item so I don't forget ;)
[21:29:51] <mathiaz> [ACTION] faulkes- to setup a LP project for the forums analyser
[21:29:55] * nijaba notes that faulkes- now masters bzr
[21:30:10] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Server survey
[21:30:17] <mathiaz> faulkes-: nijaba : updates ?
[21:30:17] <faulkes-> nijaba: I have you to thank for that
[21:30:39] <faulkes-> mathiaz: patches have been submitted and merged to it, I will let nijaba answer more fully
[21:30:44] <nijaba> soren, I am about to push v.2 of the survey tonight
[21:30:46] <michalski> looking at server forum questions for directory services, i see alot about samba in general
[21:31:03] <nijaba> Thanks for a ll the feedback, I think it has improved a lot
[21:31:04] <michalski> we should recommend to the docs team to improve the docs on it
[21:31:35] <nijaba> it is not too late to send me an email if you want to test drive it :)
[21:31:50] <michalski> you didnt give me your email :P
[21:32:02] <owh> michalski: It's on the wiki page.
[21:32:15] <faulkes-> nijaba: how comfortable are we with setting a release date for taking the server?
[21:32:20] <faulkes-> err, survey
[21:32:26] <michalski> nick barcet?
[21:32:33] <nijaba> well, we still have some hosting issues
[21:32:40] * faulkes- nods
[21:32:48] <nijaba> I am working on it
[21:32:51] <michalski> ok thanks
[21:33:10] <faulkes-> ok, from my perspective, I want to have some advance on it so we can properly publicize it to get maximum responses/exposure
[21:33:30] <faulkes-> i.e. UWN, Fridge, Forums, etc..
[21:33:39] <owh> Can we find a way to collectively digg it for example?
[21:33:55] <nijaba> well, the way we have the question, I don't think we will be able to launch it before April
[21:34:10] <nealmcb> owh - good idea
[21:34:16] <mathiaz> nijaba: before hardy is released ?
[21:34:16] <kirkland> someone needs to post a blog entry explaining the motivation and goals etc, and then post it to slashdot
[21:34:26] <kirkland> and hope slashdot picks it up
[21:34:28] <nijaba> mathiaz: yes or around
[21:34:37] <kirkland> and then pray your server can handle the traffic ;-)
[21:34:50] <nijaba> so I guess next step is to prepare the text for the annoucement
[21:34:54] <owh> nijaba: So, lime doesn't host for us then?
[21:35:04] <mathiaz> so - could we come up with a list of website/ressource we wanna post to ?
[21:35:14] <nijaba> no, lime is an app, not a hosting provider
[21:35:34] <owh> I'll be happy to come up with a list and email it to the list.
[21:35:41] <faulkes-> mathiaz: I think that would be wise, although we want to selectively target the most appropriate sources, rather than shotgun effect it
[21:35:45] <nijaba> owh, whu not use the wiki?
[21:35:53] <nijaba> s/whu/why
[21:35:53] <mathiaz> owh: great - I'd rather use a wiki
[21:35:56] <owh> Works for me.
[21:36:13] <nijaba> anybody up to start the announcement?
[21:36:25] * michalski hides :P
[21:36:26] <owh> I'll draft one for the wiki page.
[21:36:29] <mathiaz> owh: we should target both the ubuntu community and server/companies related sites ?
[21:36:29] <kirkland> who's blog is most heavily read?
[21:36:44] <faulkes-> oh, on the subject of forums, if you are doing testing on a new release of a package, feel free to notify me and I can post it to the forums if it's server related
[21:36:58] <michalski> couldnt we send it to the fridge?
[21:36:58] <mathiaz> [ACTION] owh to draft a wiki page with a list of ressource where we can announce the survey
[21:36:59] <owh> mathiaz: I'll come up with the first list, it will be a wiki page so you can add to it :)
[21:37:18] <owh> I'll also draft the announcement text.
[21:37:20] <mathiaz> owh: exactly.
[21:37:30] * nijaba hugs owh
[21:37:38] <owh> :)
[21:37:45] * michalski takes a kodak moments
[21:37:47] <mathiaz> owh: could you create one page under wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ with the text announcement and a list of ressource ?
[21:37:47] <faulkes-> note: the stats collected by the forum reporting tool will also be able to be analyzed by full / year / month
[21:37:49] <michalski> * moment
[21:38:20] <mathiaz> faulkes-: zul uploaded a new version of ebox
[21:38:21] <owh> mathiaz: Yup, consider it done.
[21:38:57] <mathiaz> faulkes-: could you post in the forums about testing ebox ?
[21:38:58] <zul> mathiaz: yep I sent out another announcement to ask for testers again and for feedback
[21:39:00] <faulkes-> I saw that message, there is already a current thread for him in forums, I will update it
[21:39:19] <mathiaz> faulkes-: where did you post ? in the server forums or the developer forums ?
[21:39:24] <faulkes-> server
[21:39:28] <owh> mathiaz: Will wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ServerSurveyLaunch work for you?
[21:39:28] <mathiaz> faulkes-: ok.
[21:39:35] <mathiaz> owh: WFM
[21:40:13] <michalski> is there a GUI for the firewall config?
[21:40:16] * michalski wonders
[21:40:36] <michalski> (sorry for a tad offtopic
[21:40:38] <zul> michalski: install ebox-firewall=
[21:41:00] <michalski> ok
[21:41:32] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] libdb migration
[21:41:41] <mathiaz> ScottK: what's new on this front
[21:42:32] <ScottK> I updated the wiki.
[21:42:40] <ScottK> To show what needs to be done for 4.3
[21:42:53] * ScottK hasn't done much with it since due to time pressure.
[21:43:11] <mathiaz> ScottK: are these transition easy to do ?
[21:43:19] <ScottK> mathiaz: Yes.
[21:43:27] <mathiaz> ScottK: I'm looking for easy tasks to do for beginners.
[21:43:53] <mathiaz> ScottK: Do you think these are good task for new comers ?
[21:44:03] <mathiaz> ScottK: bitesize tasks ?
[21:44:05] <ScottK> mathiaz: You need to grab the source and make sure they don't use transactions (grep'ing the source is enough) and if not, it's just updating the build-dep/depends
[21:44:13] <ScottK> Yes.
[21:44:19] <mathiaz> ScottK: ok.
[21:44:31] <ScottK> If it uses transactions, then leave it mark it and leave it for someone else. Those are harder.
[21:44:39] <mathiaz> ScottK: ok.
[21:44:55] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Documentation
[21:45:04] <mathiaz> sommer: ?
[21:45:19] <sommer> likewise-open section is available for your reviewing pleasure
[21:45:41] <sommer> http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/likewise-open.html
[21:45:53] <nijaba> \o/
[21:46:02] <mathiaz> sommer: which section are left ?
[21:46:20] <sommer> bacula, virt-manager/libvirt, ebox
[21:46:25] <sommer> then updates
[21:46:34] <mathiaz> sommer: well - let's start with virtualization
[21:46:37] <sommer> path name, package names, etc
[21:46:49] <sommer> mathiaz: ya, I'm sort of stuck on that one
[21:47:02] <mathiaz> sommer: yes - that's actually quit an important one.
[21:47:07] <sommer> since I don't have KVM friendly hardware
[21:47:16] <mathiaz> sommer: it's one of the big feature for hardy
[21:47:26] <sommer> mathiaz: ya I know
[21:47:47] <sommer> I was thinking of documenting what I can then submit it to those with compatible hardware for testing
[21:48:08] <sommer> should have something by the end of the week
[21:48:33] <sommer> other ideas are welcome :-)
[21:48:52] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Any Other Business
[21:49:04] <nealmcb> has anyone made a vm image of e.g. hardy alpha 5? faster/easier to try out than a cdimage for many folks
[21:49:07] <mathiaz> anyone wants to add something ?
[21:49:24] <michalski> on the note of documentation... samba docs, are they sufficient at current levels?
[21:49:27] <mathiaz> nealmcb: you can use ubuntu-vm-builder
[21:49:37] <owh> How do action points from previous meetings get carried forward?
[21:49:52] <ScottK> mathiaz: You're going to merge cyrus-sasl2, right?
[21:49:52] <mathiaz> michalski: which part of the documentation are you talking about ?
[21:50:00] <mathiaz> ScottK: working on it with kirkland
[21:50:00] <nealmcb> sommer: I'd say ebox doc would also be good sooner rather than later - help attract testers
[21:50:06] <ScottK> mathiaz: Great.
[21:50:09] <faulkes-> qemu + ubuntu + ppc != work at least for me with 8.04
[21:50:29] <kirkland> ScottK: some nasty man page merge issues, working through them still
[21:50:29] <mathiaz> owh: they should be.
[21:50:41] <nealmcb> mathiaz: yes indeed - just wondering if anyone had done it, if there would be a way to distribute such things, etc
[21:50:42] <sommer> nealmcb: yep, hope to have something soon as well
[21:50:43] <faulkes-> install screen comes up but then video goes all wonky, but it's ppc-server, so I can't really expect alot on that
[21:50:43] <mathiaz> owh: there is a section about bacula in the ReportingPage
[21:50:51] <michalski> documentation for directory services, from the stats of faulkes, we can see that alot of questions are for directory services
[21:50:58] <michalski> more specificly samba
[21:51:02] <owh> mathiaz: Cool.
[21:51:28] <nealmcb> after my big symposium next week I should have more time to try that out
[21:51:30] <faulkes-> one of the key things I have found with the forums, is that pointers to documentation, more often than not, do not point to the official documentation
[21:51:33] <mathiaz> michalski: ok - did you have a look at the samba section on the server guide ?
[21:51:40] <faulkes-> and this causes issues
[21:52:00] <faulkes-> I'm still thinking of a way to properly address that, which is more a social issue
[21:52:07] <michalski> just a tad mathiaz
[21:52:17] <nealmcb> faulkes-: yeah - hopefully the likewise work is exactly what a lot of them need
[21:52:29] * faulkes- nods
[21:52:32] <mathiaz> michalski: if you have any comments or modification, don't hesitate to submit a patch to sommer
[21:52:38] <mathiaz> michalski: or update the wiki pages.
[21:52:48] <ScottK> faulkes-: I think more effort is needed to merge stuff into the official documentation and prune redudant info from the community docs.
[21:52:55] <michalski> ok
[21:52:57] <mathiaz> michalski: the roadmap has a list of pages related to samba.
[21:53:16] <faulkes-> ScottK: I can't argue against that, I will investigate possibly getting involved
[21:53:16] <mathiaz> michalski: that needs some cleanup
[21:54:10] <michalski> I'll see what I can do, but I have zilch experience with Directory services
[21:54:20] <nealmcb> faulkes-: yes - I agree that figuring out how to link forum questions to our best documentation would help a lot
[21:54:47] <michalski> either way, i have to go or i'll be late for a meeting out in the real world
[21:54:49] <michalski> bye
[21:54:50] <nealmcb> getting better google search results for our documentation would help there also
[21:54:53] <faulkes-> nealmcb: I will ponder and get creative after a couple of martinis
[21:55:28] <nealmcb> maybe advertising how to do google searches specific to the official documentation would help
[21:56:10] <owh> Make it a sticky.
[21:56:28] <sommer> did we come to a consensus on the documentation motd bug?
[21:56:35] <mathiaz> sommer: no.
[21:57:03] <mathiaz> sommer: it's part of a bigger question about seed managment.
[21:57:19] <sommer> mathiaz: I'm with ya, is there still time to update the motd?
[21:57:36] <sommer> seems like that may be a new feature?
[21:57:44] <mathiaz> sommer: well - given that we're past FF, it may be not late.
[21:58:15] <mathiaz> sommer: it depends on the solution we choose to implement.
[21:58:28] <mathiaz> sommer: well - given that we're past FF, it may be too late.
[21:59:17] <sommer> mathiaz: gotcha, I'll try and focus on that at the beginning of the next release cycle
[21:59:19] <nealmcb> mathiaz: who are the right people to decide what to do with it?
[21:59:40] <mathiaz> nealmcb: people
[21:59:42] <sommer> seems like general updates were more important this time :-)
[21:59:44] <ScottK> We are
[21:59:45] <mathiaz> nealmcb: from the platform
[22:00:02] <owh> Is there a meeting after us?
[22:00:02] <mathiaz> nealmcb: we had a discussion with cjwatson last week
[22:00:05] <nealmcb> 5 years of having to explain to people how to get to the documentation from the command line would be a drag
[22:00:10] <mathiaz> and we know what's involved now.
[22:00:34] <sommer> nealmcb: surely it'll only be the first few months... heh
[22:00:44] <mathiaz> well - we've got to move on.
[22:00:51] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time.
[22:01:03] <mathiaz> next week, same place, same time ?
[22:01:10] <faulkes-> WFM
[22:01:15] <owh> .
[22:01:19] <nijaba> +1
[22:01:28] <zul> okiely dokely
[22:01:30] <sommer> o//
[22:01:41] <nealmcb> I'll be busy then - see you the week after
[22:01:42] <owh> soren: You got a moment?
[22:01:48] <faulkes-> good meeting folks
[22:01:54] <nealmcb> mathiaz: good work - quick meeting
[22:02:02] <mathiaz> great then- Thanks all - see ya next week
[22:02:06] <nijaba> thanks *
[22:02:07] <kirkland> thanks
[22:02:12] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>

----
CategoryScribesTeam CategoryTemplate
