{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
09:05	Keybuk	let's get started
09:05	Keybuk	mdz is on holiday, and has no internet access
09:05	Keybuk	so it's just the two of us today
09:05	mjg59	Right
09:05	Keybuk	first, some administrivia
09:05	mjg59	Anyone for core-dev?
09:05	mjg59	Ah, ok
09:06	Keybuk	people will note that it's been two years since we started using LP to track developers
09:06	Keybuk	so we're starting to get people's team membership expire
09:06	Keybuk	if you're an active developer, you'll be renewed automatically
09:06	Keybuk	if you haven't been active for a while, you may need to reapply via TB meeting again
09:07	siretart	how is the 'activeness' measured? by a human or by soyuz looking at the last upload?
09:07	Keybuk	human
09:07	siretart	k
09:08	Keybuk	one of the TB members will react to the "seb128 has expired!" e-mail, and renew the membership :)
09:08	ogra	do trhe users get them too ?
09:08	Keybuk	yes
09:08	ogra	to have the ability to raise their hands  ?
09:08	ogra	ah, cool
09:09	ogra	i had some for edubuntu recently
09:09	Keybuk	anyway, onwards
09:09	Keybuk	core-dev
09:09	Keybuk	I have nobody in my list
09:09	Keybuk	is there anybody here who's applied for core-dev membership and thinks they should be?
09:10	Keybuk	clearly not
09:10	Keybuk	good
09:11	Keybuk	ubuntu-dev
09:11	Keybuk	again, I have nobody in my l.ist
09:11	Amaranth	https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-core-dev/+members shows 4 people
09:11	Keybuk	is there anybody here who's applied for ubuntu-dev membership and thinks they should be?
09:11	ogra	why is kylem on there ?
09:11	Keybuk	Amaranth: we only consider people who applied since the last TB meeting
09:11	Amaranth	ah, i see
09:11	ogra	he should be uploading already, shouldnt he ?
=== kylem eyebrows.
09:12	Keybuk	those that applied before are people who were turned down at a previous meeting with a "later"
09:12	Keybuk	ogra: playing "join all teams", I expect
09:12	ogra	heh
09:13	Keybuk	ok
09:13	Keybuk	nobody for ubuntu-dev today then
09:13	kylem	ogra, i didn't read far enough that core-dev implied -dev.
09:13	Keybuk	dholbach isn't around, so I assume we will not be discussing Council Greyskull today
09:13	ogra	well, no quorum anyway
09:14	Keybuk	siretart: you have an agenda item, the floor is yours
09:14	Keybuk	ogra: we have Q
09:14	ogra	two is enough ?
09:14	ogra	ah, right, its TB :) not CC
09:14	Keybuk	ogra: yes, TB Q has always been two
09:14	Keybuk	we assume a three man team, and require a simple majority
09:14	siretart	well, status update: I have contacted the techincal board again, this time via email about the ffmpeg issue
09:15	siretart	I filed a MIR about ffmpeg, requested it to be reapproved for main
09:15	Keybuk	yes
09:15	Keybuk	I didn't get the context of the e-mail
09:15	siretart	I'm still not sure what codecs are exactly problematic
09:16	siretart	until that issue is resolved, I'm proposing an interim solution: let's upload xine-lib with its internal partial copy of ffmpeg with no mpeg2 encoding capabilities
09:16	siretart	to main that is
09:16	Keybuk	what uses xine-lib?
09:16	mjg59	Ok. So I've a couple of questions about this, to begin with.
09:16	siretart	since we already have packages like libmad, I'd like to know what issues are to resolve
09:17	siretart	Keybuk: most notable kubuntu (amarok) and xubuntu
09:17	mjg59	1) Is mpeg2 the only actively-enforced-patent-encumbered codec in ffmpeg?
09:17	ogra	Keybuk, totem-xine
09:18	mjg59	We're getting very close to the point where we should drop totem-xine, but that's not strictly important
09:18	siretart	mjg59: 1) I refer to debian/patents.txt quoted on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionFFmpeg. Sam (and me neither) don't know about any further
09:18	Keybuk	ogra: don't we support totem-gstreamer instead?  and the theory of ffmpeg-in-main was that some of the ugly codecs could be in main too?
09:18	siretart	Keybuk: gxine as well
09:18	ogra	Keybuk, right, totem-xine isnt in main either, sorry
09:19	siretart	Keybuk: xine uses ffmpeg not only for codecs. some plugins use the 'libpostproc' library, which has nothing to do about decoding. I expect some other packages as well
09:19	mjg59	siretart: I'm not sold on the "libmad is in main, so ffmpeg should be"
09:19	mjg59	It's equally plausible that libmad being in main is an error
09:20	mjg59	We quite clearly don't ship a useful mp3 player in main, and that's defined as policy
09:20	siretart	mjg59: demotion of libmad would cause quite some trouble, looking at the reverse build-deps
09:20	Keybuk	http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/germinate-output/feisty/rdepends/libmad/libmad0
09:21	siretart	mjg59: anyway, if the decision is to demote libmad, then I'd request to demode xine-lib as well. this would however deeply annouy kubuntu and xubuntu users
09:21	Keybuk	I'm not sure why it's still a build-depend
09:21	Mithrandir	mjg59: *cough*; xmms *cough*
09:21	zul	Mithrandir: er...its still kind of brroken
09:21	mjg59	Mithrandir: Seriously? That can't be deliberate.
09:22	Mithrandir	mjg59: done so since warty.
09:22	mjg59	Sigh.
09:22	mjg59	Ok.
09:22	Keybuk	note that main != CD
09:22	mjg59	Let's just ignore the current state of reality. It clearly isn't useful.
09:22	Mithrandir	it might very well be an error, but we quite clearly do, just not in a default install.
09:22	Keybuk	we certainly don't ship any MP3 players on the CD
09:22	Keybuk	that's definitely legally naughty
09:23	mjg59	Right. So.
09:23	Keybuk	on the FTP site is legally wishy-washy because users initiate the download
09:23	siretart	as mentioned, I have already prepared new xine 1.1.3 packages, with the ffmpeg plugin split out to libxine1-ffmpeg. Xine loads its plugins at runtime using dlopen, which makes this convinient
09:23	mjg59	Keybuk: Do we have legal advice on that?
09:23	Keybuk	mjg59: that's my understanding, otherwise we wouldn't ship them in universe
09:23	siretart	so even if we promote ffmpeg and xine-lib uses that, we don't need to put ffmpeg on the CD
09:23	Keybuk	my understanding is that main vs. universe is legally no different, but CD vs. FTP is
09:24	siretart	this was an argument in my email, right
09:24	mjg59	Keybuk: Ok. You're in a better position to check that than I am - is it possible to verify that, just to make sure that we're not doing it unwittingly?
09:24	Keybuk	main vs. universe is simply a matter of which team (core-dev vs. dev) supports the package
09:24	mjg59	Right, clearly there's no legal distinction between main, universe and multiverse
09:25	Riddell	people may assume that since main is supported it can be freely used without worrying about getting a patent licence
09:25	Riddell	(or they may not)
09:25	mjg59	So based on current practice, providing a xine-lib including ffmpeg would be fine for main, just not for ship
09:25	Keybuk	mjg59: previous legal issues have been somewhat clouded by people shouting "WE'RE GOING TO JAIL!" over the top of sensible discourse  ;)
09:25	Keybuk	mjg59: assuming that xine-lib, xmms, etc. aren't in main by mistake :p
09:26	Keybuk	none of them are seeded, so I'd be willing to believe an FTP master was especially asleep one day
09:26	Riddell	we need xine-lib
09:26	mjg59	Keybuk: Well, that pretty much definitely would be "aren't on the FTP server by mistake"
09:26	Riddell	and xmms is orders of sabdfl I believe
09:26	Keybuk	but yes, given that xmms and libmad are in main, I don't see the reason that ffmpeg isn't
09:26	mjg59	I'm going to attempt to summarise this, and propose the next step.
09:27	Keybuk	siretart has filed an MIR, that's a request for the archive admins to promote it
09:27	siretart	xmms and ffmpeg are pretty unrelated. xmms uses libmad, which bring in the same legal concers as ffmpeg though
09:27	Keybuk	actually
09:27	Keybuk	sorry
09:27	Keybuk	that's a request for the security team to review it
09:27	Keybuk	so the next step is for pitti or keescook to review the source to determine whether we can provide security support for ffmpeg
09:27	mjg59	(*) Current policy appears to be that patent-encumbered code may be distributed in main, but not in ship.
09:27	Keybuk	if they approve it, then it's a request for the archive admins to promote it once it has been seeded
09:27	Keybuk	anyone in core-dev can modify the seeds
09:28	Keybuk	mjg59: that is my understanding, yes
09:28	mjg59	(*) Based on this, it would be reasonable for a version of xine-lib containing ffmpeg code to be in main. However, any package that becomes part of ship must *not* contain this code.
09:28	siretart	I don't think anyone not in the desktop team dares to touch the seeds ;)
09:28	Keybuk	siretart: hmm, most of core-dev have touched them ?
09:29	siretart	aha? - interesting :)
09:29	mjg59	(*) Therefore, assuming the accuracy of the first observation, the TB has no reason to deny the inclusion of ffmpeg code in main *providing* that the technical implementation allows the ffmpeg code to be split from the core xine-lib binary package
09:30	Keybuk	it may be worth posting that as a summary, and requesting the Community Council's input
09:30	mjg59	(This is predicated upon the accuracy of the first observation. The TB should also internally determine that adequate legal advice has been obtained by Canonical)
09:30	siretart	mjg59: I assume you mean 'binary code' and not 'source code' here
09:30	mjg59	siretart: Either
09:31	Mithrandir	having stuff in main we can't ship on the CDs is a bit bad since people can easily end up including it by mistake by promoting something else.
09:32	mjg59	Mithrandir: This situation already exists. We should ensure that it is hard.
09:33	mjg59	If you feel it's practical, I'd be happy for us to suggest that it be a requirement that the archive allow packages to be tagged as "not ship", or something similar
09:31	Keybuk	I would also add:
09:33	Keybuk	(*) This constitutes a recommendation of the TB, however this recommendation is not binding and the Archive Administrators are permitted to deny this.
09:33	siretart	like putting the binary package 'ffmpeg' (ffmpeg command line utilities) and libxine1-ffmpeg
09:33	siretart	to universe?
09:33	mjg59	Having libxine1-ffmpeg in main should be fine
09:34	Keybuk	why would having ffmpeg in main be not fine?
09:34	mjg59	It's just important that it never somehow end up in ship
09:34	Keybuk	they're useful utilities
09:34	siretart	indeed, they are
09:35	mjg59	Keybuk: Do you want to mail this to people, or shall I?
09:35	Keybuk	mjg59: can you
09:35	mjg59	Ok
09:35	mjg59	Anyone have anything else to add?
09:35	siretart	yes
09:35	Keybuk	siretart: your next step, anyway, is to talk to pitti and keescook and have the MIR approved
09:35	siretart	I'd like an answer to my interim proposal
09:35	Keybuk	regardless of any patent issues, you need their approval
09:35	Keybuk	I don't see how your interim proposal helps anything?
09:35	siretart	read: upload xine-lib and make it use the internal (decoding only) copy
09:36	siretart	Keybuk: it allows having xine-lib 1.1.3 sooner in the archive
09:36	Keybuk	is there a critical or urgent bug this fixes?
09:36	siretart	allowing Riddell to upload a newer amarok
09:36	mjg59	siretart: Given what we've concluded, I don't see any reason for that to be something we need to cover here
09:36	siretart	and buying us additional testing
09:36	mjg59	Do whatever you think is best
09:36	mjg59	With the previous proviso of ensuring that ffmpeg code never appears in ship
09:36	Keybuk	amarok is shipped
09:37	siretart	I think uploading with ffmpeg is best for ubuntu, so we finally get goodies like WMV9 on amd64 :)
09:37	Keybuk	it's part of ubuntu-desktop
09:37	Keybuk	             ^
09:37	Keybuk	             k
09:37	Keybuk	so that's forbid, under our current reading
09:37	mjg59	siretart: Would the ffmpeg code be in a separate binary package?
09:37	siretart	Keybuk: that's no problem. the ffmpeg code in libxine1-ffmpeg does not need to be in ship. amarok just depends on libxine1
09:37	mjg59	I believe you implied it would be
09:37	siretart	mjg59: yes, I already have such packages ready
09:37	mjg59	Yes, then that's fine. Just ensure that nothing depends on libxine1-ffmpeg.
09:38	siretart	as seen in https://code.launchpad.net/people/siretart/+branch/xine-lib/xine-lib.ubuntu.1.1.3
09:38	siretart	yepp, willdo
09:38	mjg59	Ok. I think we're done with this.
09:38	siretart	thanks
09:38	Keybuk	you may want to check the new source with pitti/keescook
09:38	Keybuk	especially if it contains a complete copy of ffmpeg
09:39	Keybuk	just to make sure it wasn't removed for security reasons
09:39	Keybuk	ok, that's the end of the agenda on my screen
09:39	Keybuk	any other business?
09:40	Keybuk	ok, done
09:40	Keybuk	unless we hear a scream from elmo at this point
09:41	mjg59	Right. I'll email a summary.
09:41	Keybuk	thanks
09:41	Keybuk	I'd mail it to the TB and CC
09:42	siretart	well, he (as debian ftpmaster) has approved it for debian/main
09:42	mjg59	Keybuk: Do I want to mail archive admins?
09:42	siretart	at least, he didn't object
09:42	Keybuk	can do
09:42	Keybuk	siretart: the Debian package has had all of the encoding ripped out, no?
09:42	mjg59	Do we have a list for them?
09:43	Keybuk	ubuntu-archive@lists.ubuntu.com
09:43	siretart	Keybuk: not all. the 'problematic' ones (to the best knowledge of the package maintainer)
09:43	Robot101	siretart: as a slight aside, do you know how this list of "problematic" encoders was arrived at?
09:44	siretart	Robot101: see my mir. the files README.Debian and patents.txt do have a nice summary
10:19	Keybuk	mjg59: nice summary
10:19	Keybuk	personally I'd like to just enable mp3 support in main once and for all :)
</pre>
