{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Scribe assignment (ttx)
** Rotating Scribe
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting (ttx)
** Server meeting time to stay the same for at least the next month or two (jib)
* Check blueprint status and progress for the week (ttx)
* Alpha1 ISO testing (ttx)
* Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs: http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html (ttx)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Development sponsorship: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/CodeReviews (ttx)
** Server engineers to sign up (jib)
* Developer communication: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeveloperCommunication (ttx)
* Soren's QA project for Alpha2 (soren)
* Weekly SRU review (zul)
* Open Discussion
* Agree on next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Scribe assignment =====

In an effort to share the burden, the responsibility and the community visibility, the meeting minutes scribe role will rotate alphabetically every week between the server team engineers. ttx will write up the current minutes, and zul will write the ones for next week. The process to follow is detailed in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Team%20policy|Server team knowledge base]]</nowiki>. mathiaz can give access to the ubuntuserver blog to those missing it.

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* jos to find out the best time for the meeting: Server meeting time to stay the same for at least the next month or two

===== Check blueprint status and progress for the week =====

Everything is green so far. The <nowiki>[[http://piware.de/workitems/server/lucid-alpha2/report.html|Alpha2 burn down chart]]</nowiki> is positive. ScottK mentioned that his mail integration spec still needs approval.

ACTION: jos to review/approve <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-more-mail-integration|server-lucid-more-mail-integration]]</nowiki>

===== Alpha1 ISO testing =====

Lucid Alpha 1 candidates are now up on the <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all|ISO tracker]]</nowiki>. Everyone is encouraged to participate in testing them ! <nowiki>[[http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/lucid/current/|Cloud images]]</nowiki> should be up soon as well.

ACTION: smoser to push cloud dailies to ISO tracker asap

===== Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs =====

Nothing assigned to team needing re-assignment. Some team members are still assigned to more bugs than they should be actively working on, so this might need more review. No red flag raised.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team =====

KSM has been turned on and should land in post-Alpha1 kernels. It requires user space to use the madise system call to mark pages for sharing. That's expected to be part of soon-released qemu-kvm 0.12. jjohansen still has to go through and update the EC2 configs to be more like virtual. On the table is also ramdisk-less images, -virtual kernels with all reasonable disk drivers for root devices as built-in, and Hz. This will be tracked in a bug that smoser will open.

ACTION: smoser to open bug for kernel team follow-up

===== Development sponsorship =====

Every server engineer with sponsorship capabilities is expected to spend one hour a week sponsoring stuff. The easiest way to track that is to do it every week at a fixed time, and combine it with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/CodeReviews|Code reviews]]</nowiki>.

ACTION: zul, kirkland, mathiaz to sign up for sponsoring time on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/CodeReviews

===== Developer communication =====

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeveloperCommunication|Developer communication rules]]</nowiki> have been recently updated, please have a look at them and do the right thing.

===== soren's QA project for Alpha2 =====

Until Alpha-2, soren will be in the QA team, rather than the server team, working on automating a lot of the testing we are doing for servers. So far he has enabled a few test suites in package builds and set up kvm-autotest to do scripted, interactive testing.

===== Open Discussion =====

Instead of rewriting all Ubuntu Server python code in Perl, we plan to rewrite Jos in Python. Daviey encourages everyone to submit their Ubuntu Server tips to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/server-tips.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, December 16th at 14:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[14:02] <ttx> #startmeeting
[14:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:02. The chair is ttx.
[14:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:02] <ttx> Welcome to the server team meeting !
[14:02] <ttx> Agenda at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[14:02] <ttx> [TOPIC] Scribe assignment
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Scribe assignment
[14:03] <ttx> This is about who should write the meeting minutes.
[14:03] <ttx> Our new beloved leader wants to:
[14:03] <ttx> * Share the burden
[14:03] <ttx> * Shared responsibility
[14:03] <ttx> * Visibility in the community
[14:04] <alexm> o/
[14:04] <ttx> so we'll rotate every week between the server team engineers so that everyone gets a chance
[14:04] <Daviey> \o
[14:04] <ttx> alphabetically
[14:04] <ttx> I'll start this week
[14:04] <zul> umm...alphabetically by irc nick right?
[14:04]  * soren is here now
[14:05] <ttx> zul: yes
[14:05] <Daviey> "gets a chance" = "gets lumbered"
[14:05] <zul> ttx: sweet ;)
[14:06] <ttx> Daviey: right :)
[14:06] <ttx> So next week is ... zul
[14:06] <zul> *sigh*
[14:06] <ttx> For refernce, the process is explained at:
[14:06]  * smoser plans on playing irc name musical chairs around hist turn
[14:06] <ttx> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Team%20policy
[14:06] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Team%20policy
[14:07] <ttx> zul: you'll need to get access to the ubuntuserver blog, mathiaz can help
[14:07] <zul> k
[14:07] <ttx> yeepee, let's move on.
[14:07] <ttx> (note: our beloved leader is not part of the rotation)
[14:08] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:08] <ttx> Only one action recorded:
[14:08] <ttx> ACTION:  jos to find out the best time for the meeting
[14:08] <ttx> jos says: "Server meeting time to stay the same for at least the next month or two"
[14:09] <zul> yay
[14:09] <ttx> [TOPIC] Check blueprint status and progress for the week
[14:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Check blueprint status and progress for the week
[14:09] <ttx> If you're not bright green on the specs you're working on, please shout
[14:09] <ttx> http://piware.de/workitems/server/lucid-alpha2/report.html shows that we are somehow on track
[14:09] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://piware.de/workitems/server/lucid-alpha2/report.html shows that we are somehow on track
[14:09]  * Daviey checks specs
[14:10] <zul> landscape-refresh havent started yet
[14:10] <ttx> though moving 40 items from server to QA helped, obviously
[14:11] <ScottK> ttx: My mail integration spec still needs approval
[14:11]  * ScottK understands the desire for more use cases, but would like to get it marked approved.
[14:11] <ttx> ScottK: hah. I remember reviewing it, so it must wait on Jos now -- checking
[14:11] <ScottK> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-more-mail-integration
[14:12] <ttx> ok, actioning Jos on this one
[14:12] <ttx> [ACTION] jos to review/approve https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-more-mail-integration
[14:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jos to review/approve https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-more-mail-integration
[14:12] <ttx> everything else is non-blocked ?
[14:13] <ttx> sounds great.
[14:13] <ttx> [TOPIC] Alpha1 ISO testing
[14:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Alpha1 ISO testing
[14:13] <ttx> Fresh out of the oven, the alpha1 ISOs are waiting for you
[14:14] <ttx> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[14:14] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[14:14] <ttx> smoser: do we have blessed cloud images as well ?
[14:14] <smoser> there are lucid builds published
[14:14] <smoser> i will grab the ids' and get them onto iso tracker
[14:15] <soren> I'll be working on setting up automated tests of those over the next day or so.
[14:15] <smoser> http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/lucid/current/
[14:15] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/lucid/current/
[14:15] <soren> "those" == the iso tests
[14:15] <ttx> [ACTION] smoser to push cloud dailies to ISO tracker asap
[14:15] <MootBot> ACTION received:  smoser to push cloud dailies to ISO tracker asap
[14:16] <ttx> I've already given the images a spin, they are reasonably usable
[14:16] <ttx> any question aboutthe ISo testing process ?
[14:17] <ttx> ...
[14:17] <ttx> alright then
[14:17] <ttx> [TOPIC] Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[14:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[14:17] <ttx> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:17] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:18] <ttx> Still a lot of bugs assigned to zul and kirkland, more than you should be actively working on
[14:18] <zul> ttx: yeah ill have to go through that list
[14:19] <zul> the ntp one is actually one I opened
[14:19] <ttx> ok. Nothing assigned to the team that needs assignment.
[14:19] <ttx> Any flags needing to be raised ?
[14:20] <ttx> On bug 460085, I'm still waiting for the Eucalyptus team to comment on the rampart memleak proposed patch
[14:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 460085 in eucalyptus "memory leak; rampart_context not freed (memory leaked per connection)" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/460085
[14:20] <ttx> moving on...
[14:20]  * ttx feels very lonely :)
[14:20] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team
[14:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team
[14:21] <jjohansen> KSM has been turned on so you should see it in post A1 kernels
[14:21] <ttx> A new weekly topic, with our kernel team guest star
[14:21] <soren> jjohansen: Woo!
[14:21] <soren> jjohansen: Awesome.
[14:21] <ttx> jjohansen: it needs some userspace support, a little mouse told me
[14:21] <ttx> jjohansen: as in, new qemu-kvm
[14:22] <jjohansen> yes,
[14:22] <ttx> jjohansen: ok. kirkland is waiting for qemu-kvm 0.12 release, which should happen soon[tm]
[14:22] <jjohansen> user space has to use the madise system call to mark pages for sharing
[14:22] <soren> There's an RC of qemu-kvm 0.12 out, IIRC.
[14:23] <jjohansen> I still have to go through and update the EC2 configs to be more like virtual
[14:23] <jjohansen> any config requests?
[14:23] <soren> Yes.
[14:23] <soren> smoser: You wanted to try to avoid having a ramdisk at all, right?
[14:24] <smoser> yes... well, some people do
[14:24] <smoser> :)
[14:24] <jjohansen> yeah we will look at that
[14:24] <smoser> on e2 we have ramdisk-less images for lucid. they work.
[14:24] <soren> I've heard requests from other places for a statically compiled compiled (no modules, everything built in).
[14:24] <jjohansen> we also want to evaluate Hz
[14:25] <soren> Err... statically compiled kernel, I mean, of course.
[14:25] <smoser> i think that -virtual kernel should support all/all-reasonable disk drivers for root devices as built in
[14:25] <jjohansen> right, I think reasonable is the key here
[14:25] <smoser> i realize that -virutal is only a subset of -server so that might cause some grief.
[14:26] <soren> virtual is the subset of server that does not deal with specific physical hardware.
[14:26] <smoser> i suppose opening a bug is the appropriate action.  i'll get one opened today.
[14:26] <smoser> soren, right, but it is a subset for modules. for the vmlinuz, its the same.
[14:26] <jjohansen> smoser: when you do subscribe me to it
[14:26] <soren> right.
[14:26] <smoser> so asking for additional stuff built in makes it bigger/affects othre things.
[14:26] <smoser> jjohansen, i'll do one better, and assign it to you :)
[14:27] <jjohansen> :)
[14:27] <ttx> Thanks John, and please come back next week for more work^H^H^H^Hfun with us !
[14:27] <jjohansen> that is the plan
[14:27] <ttx> anything else for our kernel friends ?
[14:28] <ttx> ok, let's move to...
[14:28] <ttx> [TOPIC] Development sponsorship
[14:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Development sponsorship
[14:29] <ttx> So every server engineer with sponsorship capabilities should spend one hour a week sponsoring stuff
[14:29] <ttx> the easiest way to track that is to do it every week at a fixed time
[14:29] <ttx> and it's easy to combine it with https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/CodeReviews
[14:29] <ttx> so far, we can see soren and me on that table
[14:30]  * dholbach hugs all sponsors :)
[14:30] <ttx> zul, kirkland, mathiaz: you should set an hour when you do code reviews and sponsoring stuff
[14:30] <ttx> our beloved leader says: "Server engineers to sign up"
[14:31] <zul> i do sponsorship and uploads for people but I dont have a set time
[14:31] <ttx> make a daniel happy, sign up :)
[14:31] <Daviey> Daniel is already too happy.
[14:31] <dholbach> :-)
[14:31] <ttx> zul: would it make sense for you to try to set a time ? that way you can do codereviews as well
[14:31] <dholbach> Daviey: WHAT?
[14:31] <dholbach> :)
[14:32] <ttx> Daviey: he can smile even more.
[14:32] <zul> ttx: sure
[14:32] <Daviey> \o/
[14:32] <Daviey> ttx: Is this sponsor + review?
[14:32] <ttx> Daviey: well, I use the same hour to do both.
[14:33] <ttx> (though I admittedly overflow)
[14:33] <ttx> smoser: you're exempted from this one, you need to acquire uploading powers first
[14:33] <zul> would this apply to only server related packages or anything since the list on dholbach's list is sparse for server related packages
[14:34] <ttx> zul: no. We should sponsor anything
[14:34] <zul> ttx: gotcha
[14:34] <smoser> ttx, yes. i do need to acquire such deity-powers
[14:34] <Daviey> hmm.. ttx surely you don't need upload powers to review? :)
[14:34]  * zul suggests smoser should become a motu in his copious spare time
=== thunderstruck is now known as gnomefreak
[14:34] <ttx> Daviey: smoser hates you now
[14:35] <Daviey> hah
[14:35] <ttx> next up is...
[14:35] <ttx> [TOPIC] Developer communication
[14:35] <MootBot> New Topic:  Developer communication
[14:35] <smoser> its too bad, cause i actually enjoyed meeting daviey face to face but now i have to hate him :)
[14:35] <ttx> dholbach (again) updated the communication rules at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeveloperCommunication
[14:36] <ttx> Please check them up
[14:36] <ttx> Communication is something easy to get wrong
[14:37] <ttx> dholbach: comments ?
[14:37] <ttx> I didn't see anything controversial in there
[14:37] <dholbach> ttx: the recent revisions of that page were a result from comments from our team mates
[14:37] <dholbach> so I tried to clarify what I could
[14:37] <dholbach> if you have more advice, feel free to add it
[14:38] <dholbach> that's all :)
[14:38] <ttx> rock on !
[14:38] <ttx> [TOPIC] Soren's QA project for Alpha2
[14:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Soren's QA project for Alpha2
[14:38] <soren> Yay.
[14:38] <ttx> soren is exploring uncharted waters for us
[14:39] <ttx> could you introduce that ?
[14:39] <soren> So, until Alpha-2, I'm on the QA team, rather than the server team.
[14:39] <soren> I'm working on automating a lot of the testing we are (or rather should be) doing for servers.
[14:39] <ttx> soren: good, you are exampted from the scribe rotation until then.
[14:39] <soren> Whee!
[14:39] <soren> So far, I've enabled a few test suites in package builds.
[14:40] <soren> More of that to come.
[14:40] <ttx> (if my calculation is exact, you shouldn't miss your turn :)
[14:40] <soren> Also, I've set up kvm-autotest to do scripted, interactive testing.
[14:40] <ttx> soren: we still hope to get a server-oriented man in the QA team, he should followup on that work.
[14:40] <soren> Right now, I have a server install running on one of my servers. It waits for the screen to look a particular way, and then pretends to press keys and such to proceed with the installation.
[14:41] <soren> Right.
[14:41] <ScottK> ttx: Back on communication, I've not seen any announcement about the new Canonical server team lead.  Perhaps I missed it.
[14:41] <soren> I've defined my work so that I'll be setting up the frameworks.
[14:41] <zul> it was done last week at the meeting
[14:41] <soren> KVM-autotest, PPA builds of server packages (to check that they keep building and their test suites keep passing), etc., etc.
[14:41] <ttx> zul: according to the doc he should have done the introduction on MLs
[14:41] <soren> ...and then the new Server QA person can fill in the blanks (create "step files" for kvm-autotest, etc)
[14:42] <ttx> ScottK: I pointed that to him already.
[14:42] <Daviey> Aww, give him a break - he's new :)
[14:43] <ttx> Shameless plug: http://webapps.ubuntu.com/employment/canonical_USQAE/
[14:43] <ttx> for anyone interested ion following on soren's steps
[14:43] <ttx> Any question for soren ?
[14:44] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review
[14:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review
[14:44] <ttx> zul: ^
[14:44] <zul> sue
[14:44] <zul> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:44] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:44] <zul> anyone nominate an SRU from that list?
[14:45] <ttx> The eucalyptus things are not SRU-worthy
[14:45] <ttx> we already went through those
[14:45] <zul> ok then
[14:45] <zul> anyone else?
[14:45] <ttx> bug 461156 is already nominated and i the queue to karmic-proposed
[14:46] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 461156 in eucalyptus "User data is not parsed correctly by Eucalyptus in some cases" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/461156
[14:46] <ttx> waiting for SRU team processing
[14:46] <zul> there is nothing on the list of nominated bugs for hardy, dapper, intrepid,lucid and karmic
[14:46] <ttx> right.
[14:47] <zul> so next
[14:47] <zul> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:47] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:47] <zul> the php and krb ones nominated last week i still have to get to
[14:48] <zul> is anyone else to test the racoon crashes on that list?
[14:48] <zul> anyone?
[14:49] <ttx> ...
[14:49] <zul> ok then moving on
[14:49] <zul> and there is nothing in the active code reviews either
[14:49] <ttx> ok, thanks zul
[14:49] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[14:49] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[14:50] <ttx> anyone / anything ?
[14:50]  * ScottK wonders if the server team will be rewriting all their Python stuff in Perl now?
[14:51] <ttx> ScottK: heh
[14:51] <Daviey> Can i remind everyone that submitting some server tips is helpful, rewarding and stops the kittens getting hurt.
[14:51] <ttx> ScottK: I don't intend to.
[14:51] <alexm> :D
[14:51] <zul> we are slowing converting jos to pyhton
[14:51] <ScottK> Excellent news.
[14:52] <Daviey> So everyone submit some tips pls :).. There will be metrics and a burn up chart. :)
[14:52] <Jeeves_> Can I ask some attention for a annoying mysql bug here?
[14:52]  * erichammond starts his 17th year with Perl soon.
[14:52] <Daviey> Jeeves_: ask in #ubuntu-server please
[14:52] <alexm> erichammond: ++
[14:52]  * ttx started his 16th year with Perl a few weeks ago
[14:53] <ttx> though I admit having left it out those last years
[14:53] <Daviey> * https://wiki.ubuntu.com/server-tips *  --- New version should hit lucid this week, so get them in :)
[14:53]  * alexm will make 10 on march
[14:53] <highvoltage> wow.
[14:54] <alexm> highvoltage: 10y with perl, not that i'm 10 :P
[14:54]  * erichammond can't subtract.  starting 18th year soon.
[14:54] <ttx> erichammond: substraction is the first skill you lose with age :P
[14:55] <zul> must be a perl bug
[14:55] <erichammond> heh.
[14:55]  * Daviey divides the topic by 0
[14:55] <ttx> zul: there are no bugs in perl, just features nobody understands
[14:55] <zul> lol
[14:55] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[14:55] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[14:55] <ttx> next week, same place, same time
[14:56] <ttx> ?
[14:56] <Daviey> sounds good.
[14:56] <ttx> Alright, thanks everyone
[14:56] <ttx> #endmeeting
</pre>
