{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Dev Week -- Testdrive -- RoAkSoAx -- Wed, Mar 2nd, 2011 ===

{{{#!irc
[15:58] <dholbach> HELLO MY FRIENDS! IT'S DAY 3 of UBUNTU DEVELOPER WEEK! WELCOME! :)
[15:58] <dholbach> if you need any information about the event at all, check out https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek
[15:58] <fisch246> !caps | dholbach
[15:58] <ubot2> dholbach: PLEASE DON'T SHOUT! We can read lowercase too.
[15:58] <fisch246> :P
[15:58] <dholbach> also, please make sure you join #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[15:58] <dholbach> because that's where all the chatter goes
[15:59] <dholbach> and questions too - please make sure you prefix your questions with QUESTION:
[15:59] <dholbach> ie: QUESTION: RoAkSoAx: was Pisco invented in Peru or in Chile?
[15:59] <RoAkSoAx> dholbach, Peru of course!
[15:59] <RoAkSoAx> :)
[16:00] <dholbach> today we'll start of the day with RoAkSoAx aka. Andres Rodriguez who will introduce you to TestDrive and how to run virtual machines (including the Ubuntu development release) in a sane manner
[16:00] <dholbach> RoAkSoAx, the stage is yours
[16:00] <dholbach> enjoy!
[16:00] <RoAkSoAx> thanks dholbach
[16:00] <RoAkSoAx> Good Morning Everybody! My name is Andres Rodriguez (as dholbach already saud) and I'm the upstream developer of TestDrive.
[16:01] <RoAkSoAx> So Who is here for the TestDrive Session?
=== ChanServ changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to the Ubuntu Classroom - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom || Support in #ubuntu || Upcoming Schedule: http://is.gd/8rtIi || Questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Event: Ubuntu Developer Week - Current Session: TestDrive - Instructors: RoAkSoAx
[16:01] <RoAkSoAx> raise your hands in #u-c-chat
[16:01] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/03/02/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[16:01] <RoAkSoAx> Perfect then.
[16:01] <RoAkSoAx> This session is divided as follows:
[16:01] <RoAkSoAx>  1. Introduction
[16:01] <RoAkSoAx>  2. How to use TestDrive (its different uses)!
[16:01] <RoAkSoAx>  3. Do you want to help TestDrive become better? - Development Opportunities!
[16:01] <RoAkSoAx>  4. Questions/Comments/Suggestions?
[16:02] <RoAkSoAx> == Introduction ==
[16:02] <RoAkSoAx> TestDrive was originally created by Dustin Kirkland to test the Ubuntu Daily ISO's of the development release. It was originally a command line application, a shell script, that was later rewritten to python. At this point, it was only a command line application. Nowdadays we have a GTK UI as well. The GTK was my Google Summer of Project with the objective of not only be able to test the Daily ISO Image of the Development release, but to be
[16:02] <RoAkSoAx>  able to test other ISO's in a simple way. I believe that the original objectives were achieved and there's also the opportunity to do more cool stuff.
[16:04] <RoAkSoAx> So the initial sole purpose of TestDrive was to be able to test Ubuntu Daily ISO's, to help with the Testing when new Ubuntu pre-releases were available and others, such as start a VM in a quick manner with no configuration based in any Ubuntu Daily ISO Available. These daily ISOs were only the Ubuntu development release
[16:05] <RoAkSoAx> So now you may wonder... what else can I do with TestDrive?
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx> TestDrive can be used for the following:
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx>  * Test Ubuntu Development Releases - Daily ISO's
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx>  * Test Older Ubuntu Releases
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx>  * Test flavors(Kubuntu/Xubuntu/Edubuntu/Mythbuntu/Ubuntu Studio)
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx>  * Test any *other* ISO from any Other Distribution
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx>  * Test Ubuntu Cloud Daily Images
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx>  * Test qcow2 disk images.
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx>  * Ubuntu ISO Download Manager :)
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx>  * And of course, test if any of our packages is fixed in any release.
[16:07] <RoAkSoAx> So at this point I'm assuming everybody is running TestDrive (and for those who are running natty, you'll notice a notification a few seconds right after you start TestDrive and I'll get to that in a bit)
[16:07] <RoAkSoAx> If you are not running it yet, please go ahead
[16:08] <RoAkSoAx> let me know when you all have TestDrive ready :)
[16:09] <RoAkSoAx> !question
[16:09] <RoAkSoAx> !q
[16:09] <RoAkSoAx> !y
[16:09] <ClassBot> techbreak asked: how to get testdrive ready ?
[16:10] <ClassBot> monish001 asked: how to start testdrive?
[16:10] <RoAkSoAx> sorry my bad
[16:10] <RoAkSoAx> From the command line: sudo apt-get install testdrive
[16:10] <RoAkSoAx> that comman will install both, TestDrive GTK and the command line application
[16:10] <RoAkSoAx> Or you guys can go to Software Center and search for TestDrive and Install it
[16:11] <RoAkSoAx> Then (for those running gnome Maverick + Applications > System Tools > TestDrive an Ubuntu ISO
[16:12] <ClassBot> monish001 asked: terminal says - You will have to enable the component called 'universe'
[16:13] <RoAkSoAx> monish001, yes you need to enable though by default it should be.You can also do it from Gnome but I can't seem to recall what to launch :)
[16:13] <RoAkSoAx> If you are running Maverick I believe it is in System > Preferences > Software Sources
[16:14] <RoAkSoAx> If you are running Ubuntu Software Center > Edit > Software Sources
[16:14] <RoAkSoAx> monish001, ^^
[16:15] <RoAkSoAx> (sorry I don't really use much Ubuntu Software Center)
[16:16] <RoAkSoAx> So anyways, let's move on otherwise time might run out
[16:16] <RoAkSoAx> So how can we Test Ubuntu Development Releases? It is easy. When you launch TestDrive, by default it will provide all the available ISO's of the current development release. In this case, Natty. The testing procedure is even easier. Simply 1. Select, 2. Sync, 3. Launch. So we can select either 1 or more ISO's. Sync means that It will download the ISO's form the repository automatically. And once an ISO is synced completely we can Launch it.
[16:16] <RoAkSoAx>  dholbach has setup a nice wikipage that show's this behavior: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UsingDevelopmentReleases/
[16:17] <RoAkSoAx> techbreak_, Please do so :)
[16:18] <RoAkSoAx> Now, I understand not everybody has the same hardware as I do, and not everybody has the same virtualization techonlogy
[16:18] <RoAkSoAx> TestDrive Fully supports 2 virtualization technologies (In the latest release included in Natty, or in Maverick PPA)
[16:19] <RoAkSoAx> So for those who are running maverick do this in the command line:
[16:19] <RoAkSoAx> sudo apt-get install python-software-properties
[16:19] <RoAkSoAx> sudo add-apt-repository ppa:testdrive/ppa
[16:19] <RoAkSoAx> sudo apt-get update
[16:19] <RoAkSoAx> sudo apt-get install testdrive
[16:19] <RoAkSoAx> with that all in maverick/natty should have the latest release
[16:20] <RoAkSoAx> now, if you are using KVM as your virtualization technology or your CPU supports KVM, when you installed TestDrive everything should be ready to launch
[16:21] <RoAkSoAx> if you use virtualbox , you'll first have to install it: sudo apt-get install virtualbox-ose
[16:21] <RoAkSoAx> so anyways, how can I choose what virtualization technology to use: Simple TestDrive > Edit > Preferences > Virtualization > Hypervisor (and select the hypervisor of your preference and click SAVE)
[16:22] <RoAkSoAx> So by now I'm assuming you guys are downloading the ISO. Now we know how to change the Hypervisor. Please all take a look to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UsingDevelopmentReleases/
[16:22] <RoAkSoAx> you'll see the nice screenshots
[16:23] <RoAkSoAx> so while the ISO downloads, I;ll continue to explain what other things we can do with TestDrive, so let's just leave TestDrive to do the work for a while
[16:24] <RoAkSoAx> So, what else can I do with TestDrive besides testing the Ubuntu Development releases.... We can test *Older* Ubuntu releases. So, how can we do it?  It is also simple. Edit > Preferences > Ubuntu Releases. If you notice, there's two things to consider. The Repository and the Release itself. The repository can either be http://cdimage.ubuntu.com or http://releases.ubuntu.com and the releases would be the available releases for each reposito
[16:24] <RoAkSoAx> ry. You just select the desired Repository and the desired release in the repository, and click save.
[16:24] <ClassBot> darkdevil75 asked: if i have already downloaded the iso, how do i point to the location?
[16:25] <RoAkSoAx> darkdevil75, I'll get to that in a bit
[16:26] <RoAkSoAx> So how we select older Development Releases in the command line? Somthing like this: testdrive -p cdimage -r maverick
[16:26] <RoAkSoAx> we specify the desired repository and the desired release
[16:26] <RoAkSoAx> if you only run "testdrive" in the command line, it will default to "cdimage" and "ubuntu development release (in this case, natty)"
[16:28] <RoAkSoAx> So, another thing we can do with TestDrive, is to also test different Ubuntu flavors, from both a previous release or the current development release. So now, how can we test different them? By default Ubuntu/Kubuntu/Xubuntu/Other are the flavors enabled. We can also test Edubuntu/Mythbuntu/UbuntuStudio. For that we go to  Edit > Preferences > Distributions > (Select the desired ones). Then we save and the available flavors in the selected
[16:28] <RoAkSoAx> repository/release will be appear.
[16:29] <RoAkSoAx> from the command line we do something like: "testdrive -p releases -r maverick -l kubuntu"
[16:29] <RoAkSoAx> or "testdrive -l kubuntu" -> For Kubuntu Natty
[16:30] <ClassBot> stefwal54 asked: is there a way to solve the problem that the virtual machine crashed
[16:30] <RoAkSoAx> Steap, not with testdrive :(
[16:31] <RoAkSoAx> stefwal54, not with testdrive :(
[16:31] <RoAkSoAx> testdrive in the case of KVM only uses kvm command to launch the ISO's
[16:31] <ClassBot> chilicuil asked: what if I pause downloading an iso, testdrive will continue downloading where I leave it?, what if I want to test the ubuntu dev version iso everyday, will it download all the iso again, or it will do a diff between the 2 isos?
[16:31] <RoAkSoAx> chilicuil, TestDrive will only download the diff and not the whole iso. However the progress will always go from 0 to 100
[16:32] <RoAkSoAx> Fpor all of those concerned, TestDrive to download all Ubuntu ISO's will use rsync
[16:34] <RoAkSoAx> Now, TestDrive Also allows us to to download and launch ISO's that might not be Ubuntu ISOs or are located in other repositories/servers/or Even the local machine. So how can we do this? Simple. In the GTK main interface you'll notice that there's the"Other". Once the "Other" tab is selected, the "Add ISO" button will become enabled. Then we enter a simple description, the URL where the ISO is located, and the protocol to use, which is eith
[16:34] <RoAkSoAx> er rzync, or zsync. If you notice there's also a file procotol. This can be used when the ISO is in our machine, and to be able to add it, we need to provide the absolute path of the ISO as URL.
[16:35] <RoAkSoAx> So, "Add Other ISO" will launch another dialog to be able to add the ISO
[16:37] <RoAkSoAx> In this case, we could use the URL of any ISO there, let's say a Fedora ISO, select zsync or rsync (if the server of the URL supports it), then click on "Add" and then "Save"
[16:37] <RoAkSoAx> this will make available the ISO under the "Other" tab, and we can select it, click Sync, and once it finished download, we can just click Launch
[16:37] <RoAkSoAx> easy huh?
[16:38] <RoAkSoAx> but wait, did you just mention we can also add ISO's already downloaded??? Yes you can ( darkdevil75 ). There's a few ways to do this
[16:39] <ClassBot> fisch246 asked: "Unable to validate Virtualization Method [virtualbox]" i have virtualbox installed... anyway i can fix this?
[16:39] <RoAkSoAx> fisch246, We'll hold that question for the end :)
[16:40] <RoAkSoAx> So anyways, how can be run with TestDrive ISO's that I already downloaded
[16:40] <RoAkSoAx> simple: With the GTK we can use TestDrive > File > Open
[16:40] <RoAkSoAx> TestDrive > File > New
[16:40] <RoAkSoAx> and notice that TestDrive > File >  New is the same as "Add Other ISO"
[16:41] <RoAkSoAx> so as URL we just give the full path of the ISO
[16:41] <RoAkSoAx> however, we can also do this from the command line
[16:41] <RoAkSoAx> testdrive -u rzync://www.youriso.com/download.iso
[16:42] <RoAkSoAx> or testdrive -u /path/to/iso/ubuntu.iso
[16:42] <ClassBot> chadadavis asked: 3D driver support?
[16:42] <RoAkSoAx> chadadavis, that's hypervisor side of things, not TestDrive's :(
[16:43] <RoAkSoAx> so anyways, what else can we do with TestDrive?
[16:44] <RoAkSoAx> we can also Test Ubuntu Cloud Images
[16:44] <RoAkSoAx> wait what? Cloud Images?? Yes, cloud images that run in the cloud can be tested in the local machine
[16:44] <RoAkSoAx> unfortunately for now it will just work for daily images and it only works in testdrive command line
[16:45] <ClassBot> techbreak asked: what is cloud image ? image of cloud ubuntu OS ?
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> techbreak_, the Cloud Image is the Ubuntu Image used in cloud computing for either Eucalyptus Cloud or Amazon EC2. In other words, whenever you launch Ubuntu in the Cloud it uses a cloud image (i.e. a disk file with some other components that have Ubuntu pre-loaded)
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> Now, to be able to test Ubuntu Cloud Daily Images we will need to use the command line application. So, we can open a command line and just do the following to obtain the latest Daily UEC/Cloud Images available:
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> testdrive -p uec-daily -l uec-server
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> We can also specify the release (i.e. Maverick)
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> testdrive -p uec-daily -l uec-server -r maverick
[16:47] <RoAkSoAx> Now, a cool feature that was added lately is to be able to launch the Cloud Image in the local terminal/console. But what does this mean? Instead of launching the image in a separate KVM window it will display it in the terminal from where you are launching testdrive. The command is as follows:
[16:47] <RoAkSoAx> testdrive -p uec-daily -l uec-server --curses
[16:47] <RoAkSoAx> NOTE: Running cloud images only work with KVM
[16:48]  * RoAkSoAx running out of time
[16:48] <RoAkSoAx> as I mentioned before we can also run images located in the machine
[16:48] <RoAkSoAx> Now we can also launch images that are located in the machine. With TestDrive GTK you can do it by using the "Other" tab - "Add ISO" (Equivalent to File > New) or simply  File > Open. The local images that can be launched can be either ISO Images, Disk Images (QCOW2) and Cloud Images. We can also do this from the command line as follows:
[16:48] <RoAkSoAx> testdrive -u /local/path/to/image.iso
[16:48] <RoAkSoAx> testdrive -u /local/path/to/image.img
[16:48] <RoAkSoAx> testdrive -u /local/path/to/uec-image.tar.gz
[16:48] <RoAkSoAx> testdrive -u /local/path/to/uec-image.tar.gz --curses
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> last but not least, for those running Natty, we have recently added an Indicator Applet (if you notice) that will appear and notify the user whenever there are available pre-release candidate ISO's available for testing. These ISOs are the ISOs that are being tested towards the next Ubuntu release. (i.e. ISO's for Tomorrow's Alpha3).
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> the idea behind that was to make aware people who were using TestDrive that there's an Ubuntu pre-release available for testing
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> == How to Contribute ==
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> Now, we've given an overview of the things we can do with TestDrive. What about if you want to contribute to TestDrive and make it better. Well it is simple, you can either contribute with ideas, fixing bugs or implementing new features. Though if you have an idea and can submit a patch, that's more desirable :). Some of the new reported feature requests are:
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> "Re-run this program with TestDrive" https://bugs.launchpad.net/testdrive/+bug/704675
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> "Quicklist and progressbar support" https://bugs.launchpad.net/testdrive/+bug/711915
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> "GUI Option for zsync" https://bugs.launchpad.net/testdrive/+bug/701818
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> "Support VMWare" https://bugs.launchpad.net/testdrive/+bug/527161
[16:50] <RoAkSoAx> == Questions/Comments/Suggestions? ==
[16:50] <RoAkSoAx> Since I only have 10 mins left
[16:51] <RoAkSoAx> lets do questions/comments/suggestions and try to get up a machine up and running
[16:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[16:51] <ClassBot> techbreak asked: ok if I am not funny what is this kvm ?
[16:51] <RoAkSoAx> techbreak, indeed KVM is one of the varios methods to create Virtual Machines
[16:51] <RoAkSoAx> and the one pre-ferred in Ubuntu
[16:52] <ClassBot> acarpine asked: why i should run a cloud image?
[16:53] <RoAkSoAx> acarpine, you don't have to, but if you would like to test it, you are more than welcome to do so!! :). Adding the support to TestDrive was a feature requested to be able to easily test Cloud Images by the Developer
[16:53] <ClassBot> stefwal asked: is there a difference between a second machine and testdrive? If some one has a second machine of course!
[16:54] <RoAkSoAx> stefwal: Of course, TestDrive uses a Vritualization Technology to run an ISO image (mainly) in a Virtual Machine
[16:54] <RoAkSoAx> you could also burn that ISO in a USB Stick and then test it in real HW
[16:54] <ClassBot> techbreak asked: what are we supposed do after testing ? what if we found some error or bug or something ? where to submit ? how ?
[16:54] <RoAkSoAx> techbreak_, if you found a error/bug with Ubuntu, just file the bug http://launchpad.net/ubuntu
[16:55] <RoAkSoAx> if you found a bug in TestDrive file a bug in launchpad.net/testdrive
[16:55] <ClassBot> Vikash asked: I have one que. I may be off the topic because i have just come to the session... Which OS is better Ubuntu or Ubuntu-derivative
[16:55] <RoAkSoAx> Vikash, you can test that yourself with TestDrive :)
[16:55] <RoAkSoAx> and use whichever you like better
[16:56] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[16:56] <RoAkSoAx> So anyways, anyone has anything else for the last 5 minutes of the session?
[16:57] <ClassBot> stefwal asked: any good ways to test?
[16:57] <RoAkSoAx> stefwal, refer to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UsingDevelopmentReleases/ for the steps on how to test techbreak_ shows how to run the download ISO
[16:58] <RoAkSoAx> stefwal, but that's the point, testing involves trying to do things
[16:58] <RoAkSoAx> you can always follow ISO testing if you would like to contribute
[16:58] <RoAkSoAx> and it will show step by step on how to do it and you can use TestDrive for that
[16:58] <RoAkSoAx> stefwal, refer to iso.qa.ubuntu.com
[16:59] <ClassBot> techbreak asked: what after i finish downloading ? any link if get stuck ?
[16:59] <ClassBot> techbreak asked: can I burn cd /dvd from the downloaded image from testrive ?
[17:00] <RoAkSoAx> techbreak_, yes: Slect the Image you'd like to burn and click on "Create USB disk"
[17:00] <RoAkSoAx> which will launch USB creator
[17:00] <RoAkSoAx> to finish please for more help you cn find me in channel #testdrive
[17:00] <RoAkSoAx> I believe my time is over. Thank you all for attending
[17:00] <RoAkSoAx> Project website: launchpad.net/testdrive IRC Channel: #testdrive
}}}
