{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
** Please discuss my comment to a user response on your mailserver wiki page - "choose webmail for main" - I put a "me too" to this subject and provided some additional information. I will join discussion if I can. Horde Ingo has the best web interface sieve support, usable by a sieve novice, only by clicking together some rules. The whole Horde Groupware Webmail Edition, which includes this package, is additional a very good choice providing a mature and up-to-date Groupware / Webmailer.
* High Availability Team. RoAkSoAx
* New How``To's for the Server Guide, Clustering Related. RoAkSoAx
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Release party at the Jackalope bar in Austin, TX. =====

mathiaz started by congratulating everyone about the Jaunty release. kirkland reported on the release party hold at the Jackalope bar in Austin, TX: around 30 people showed up and the guinness were $2.50/pint, happy hour prices.

kirkland also announced the probable location of the next release party in Austi, TX: the Karma bar.

ACTION: kirkland to organize the Austin release party for Karmic at the Karma bar.

===== Features for karmic =====

Now that the release cycle for Karmic has officially started mathiaz reminded the process to submit ideas for new features to be developed in the coming months. Start by creating a blueprint in launchpad with a name starting with server-karmic-. Then propose the blueprint for the Karmic sprint. That will make the idea show up on dendrobates list and he will choose which one should be discussed during the next UDS.

ivoks mentioned that the <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/server/|server section of brainstorm]]</nowiki> would also provide a good idea of what users ask for.

===== High Availability Team =====

RoAkSoAx presented the idea of creating a team around High Availability <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ha/|ubuntu-ha]]</nowiki> in Ubuntu. Packages such as Heartbeat, Keepalived, ipvsadm, ldirectord, lvs would have their bug contact set as the team. A mailing list could also be created to discuss topics related to High Availability in Ubuntu.

ACTION: RoAkSoAx to create an ubuntu-ha team, create a mailing list for it, make the ubuntu-ha team a bug contact for relevant packages and start triaging bugs.

===== New HowTo's for the Server Guide, Clustering Related =====

RoAkSoAx offered to write some tutorials about setting up an high availability infrastructure with Ubuntu. mathiaz suggested to start by looking at the existing wiki pages in the Ubuntu community wiki and see how they could be improved. Once the content is updated including it in the server guide is welcome.

ACTION: RoAkSoAx to look at the wiki pages on h.u.com/community/ and identify the ones relevant to HA.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 5th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:01. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:02] <mathiaz> First of all: thanks everyone for the hard work put in pulling a new release
[16:02] <ivoks> anytime :)
[16:02] <mathiaz> Jaunty is an awesome release and one step closer to world domination
[16:03] <mathiaz> I hope you all celebrated this last release
[16:03] <mathiaz> and took some time to sit back, relax and enjoy the results
[16:04]  * kirkland did :-)
[16:05] <mathiaz> let's move on to current matters
[16:05] <Brazen> ... after installing the upgrade on all your computers first, right?
[16:05] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:05] <mathiaz> Last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090421
[16:06] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Release party at the Jackalope bar in Austin, TX.
[16:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Release party at the Jackalope bar in Austin, TX.
[16:06] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^ how did this go?
[16:07] <kirkland> mathiaz: well it was *awesome* of course
[16:07] <kirkland> mathiaz: superm1 took some pictures, i haven't gotten them yet
[16:07] <kirkland> mathiaz: i suspect we were the only release party to hold such festivities at a bar named after the Ubuntu release :-)
[16:07] <kirkland> mathiaz: there were about 30 people present
[16:08] <kirkland> mathiaz: guinness were $2.50/pint, happy hour prices :-)
[16:08] <mathiaz> kirkland: looks like you guyz had a good time
[16:08] <mathiaz> kirkland: any plans for the next release party?
[16:09] <kirkland> mathiaz: as a matter of fact, there is a bar in Austin called "Karma"
[16:09] <kirkland> mathiaz: i suspect we'll hold the next release party there :-)
[16:09] <ivoks> i bet there's lots of those all around the world :)
[16:09] <kirkland> ivoks: hopefully so!
[16:09] <ivoks> kirkland: we even have a singing group called karma :D
[16:09] <kirkland> ivoks: probably more than bars named The Jackalope
[16:09] <ivoks> kirkland: most probably :)
[16:10] <kirkland> anyone else had a good release party?
[16:10] <kirkland> ivoks: what was shaking in Croatia?
[16:10] <ivoks> kirkland: oh, we had a intstall fest in student's club
[16:10] <ivoks> kirkland: and a bit of demonstration what's new in jaunty... nothing special
[16:11] <ivoks> i celebrated in the mountains :)
[16:12] <mathiaz> well - it seems that we've got plans for the most important item for this coming release cycle
[16:12] <nijaba> the party in london was great too.  In his toast, Mark named Jaunty the best server release ever!
[16:12] <kirkland> ivoks: i enjoyed your Ubuntu Action Shots
[16:12] <ivoks> kirkland: hehe
[16:12] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to organize the Austin release party for Karmic in the Karma bar
[16:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to organize the Austin release party for Karmic in the Karma bar
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: ack
[16:13] <mathiaz> That brings us to the next topic: what should be celebrated?
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: others are to find karma bars nearby too
[16:13] <nijaba> mathiaz: montreal: http://restomontreal.ca/portal/karma/index.php?lang=fr
[16:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: we also have a sports bar called Aussie's, with koala's everywhere
[16:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: so that would work too, in a pinch
[16:14] <ivoks> yeah... koala should be better :)
[16:14] <ivoks> karma is just too easy
[16:14] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Features for karmic
[16:14] <MootBot> New Topic:  Features for karmic
[16:14] <mathiaz> As you may know, next UDS is less than a month away
[16:15] <mathiaz> now is the time to make your ideas known
[16:15] <mathiaz> and start discussing them
[16:16] <ivoks> i would like to see ldap getting everywhere possible
[16:17]  * nijaba agrees with ivoks :)
[16:17] <sommer> me too, me too
[16:17] <mathiaz> how to do so? Start a wiki page to outline your ideas
[16:17] <ivoks> so, that's it then :D
[16:17] <mathiaz> register a blueprint in launchpad, nominate for the karmic uds
[16:17] <kirkland> mathiaz: wiki page, or blueprint first?
[16:18] <ivoks> this is a lot of work, so we should target karmic+1 for that, but do as much as possible in karmic
[16:18] <mathiaz> kirkland: hm - good question
[16:18] <mathiaz> kirkland: it seems that people are first using blueprints to do a quick braindump
=== thekorn_ is now known as thekorn
[16:18] <mathiaz> we end up with thousand of blueprints now
[16:19] <kirkland> mathiaz: i thought that was what dendrobates asked us to do
[16:19] <kirkland> mathiaz: to schedule a uds session, a blueprint must exist
[16:20] <kirkland> mathiaz: my understanding was that the UDS organizers would schedule sessions based on "accepted" blueprints
[16:20] <kirkland> mathiaz: from the output of UDS, if a blueprint was then "approved", then a wiki spec is expected
[16:20] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok.
[16:20] <kirkland> mathiaz: and based on the wiki spec, work would commence :-)
[16:20] <kirkland> mathiaz: but, as you say, this has been very much in flux
[16:20] <kirkland> mathiaz: so it's possible i'm confused, too
[16:22] <kirkland> mathiaz: i added far more blueprints than i expect to get approved
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: also, dendrobates asked that server-related blueprints start with "server-karmic-*" for sorting purposes
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: and that they should be proposed for the Karmic sprint
[16:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: all right.
[16:24] <mathiaz> So the process is: create (or rename) a blueprint starting with server-karmic-, propose it for the karmic sprint
[16:25] <ivoks> ok
[16:25] <mathiaz> This will get the idea on dendrobates' radar and he'll select the ones to be discussed at uds
[16:26] <mathiaz> ivoks: FYI I'm working on the ldap+kerberos issue - I should have a couple of blueprints ready in the next few days
[16:26] <ivoks> mathiaz: great
[16:27] <mathiaz> so get your ideas out there and let the ubuntu developer community know about them
[16:27] <mathiaz> any questions about this process?
[16:27] <ivoks> if you don't know where to start
[16:27] <ivoks> check brainstorm and let's do something lots of people want
[16:28] <kirkland> jcastro: can you point us to some of the most popular server-related brainstorm requests?
[16:28] <ivoks> kirkland: http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/server/
[16:29] <kirkland> jcastro: doesn't have to be now, but perhaps post to the ubuntu-server@ mailing list this week?
[16:29] <jcastro> kirkland: after my session with mark
[16:29] <jcastro> sure
[16:29] <kirkland> jcastro: doh.  ivoks has it :-)
[16:29] <ivoks> what? is this true? php5-mysql isn't part of LAMP?
[16:30] <ivoks> i would say that idea '
[16:30] <ivoks> about the lamp stack is a bug, not an idea
[16:30] <mathiaz> ivoks: php5-mysql *is* part of the LAMP stack
[16:30] <mathiaz> http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/seeds/ubuntu.jaunty/lamp-server
[16:30] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/seeds/ubuntu.jaunty/lamp-server
[16:30] <ivoks> great
[16:31] <ivoks> adding gd library should be harmless...
[16:31] <mathiaz> all right - let's move on
[16:31] <mathiaz> ivoks: we can discuss all these ideas at UDS - it may be worth creating a blueprint to gather common ideas.
[16:32] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] High Availability Team
[16:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  High Availability Team
[16:32] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: ^^
[16:32] <RoAkSoAx> heya
[16:32] <RoAkSoAx> let me introduce myself first
[16:32] <RoAkSoAx> I'm Andres Rodriguez, I one of the council members of the Ubuntu Peru LoCo. I've done some work for the server team before, working on some init scripts adding the status action.
[16:32] <RoAkSoAx> The reason I've brought this up is because, as I explained mathiaz yesterday at his UOW presentation, I do think that packages such Heartbeat, Keepalived, ipvsadm, etc, etc, should be important to the server team since many companies work, and would like to work with HA clusters.
[16:33] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: i was planing on bringing this on the table for UDS
[16:33] <RoAkSoAx> Why is my interest in HA? because I did my thesis related to HA. I designed an architecture of HA clusters for webservers: more information: http://www.roaksoax.com/2008/07/ubuntu-in-my-thesis-part-2
[16:33] <RoAkSoAx> And you can download it from here (It's in spanish): http://roaksoax.files.wordpress.com/2009/03/thesis.pdf
[16:34] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: are you familliar with redhat cluster suite?
[16:34] <RoAkSoAx> ivoks, unfortunately, no, just with tools such as hearbeat, DRBD, keepalived, ldirectord, lvs
[16:35] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: so, if you are interested, i could give you a quick overview of current status
[16:35] <RoAkSoAx> btw.. mathiaz proposed the creation of this HA team, yesterday at his presentation
[16:35] <ivoks> that would be great...
[16:35] <ivoks> since we lack people in that area :D
[16:35] <mathiaz> The suggestion was to add hearbeat,  DRBD, keepalived, ldirectord, lvs
[16:35] <mathiaz> packages to the ubuntu-server bug packages
[16:35] <RoAkSoAx> I've also offered myself to provides HowTo's
[16:35] <mathiaz> that would mean more bug mails on the ubuntu-server-bugs mailing list
[16:36] <nxvl> how is that the Austin, TX Release party became important for the server team?
[16:36] <mathiaz> my concern is that it may start to be too much
[16:36] <ivoks> mathiaz: i would love to see in 6-12 months time ubuntu cluster stack, based on linuxha, instead of rhcs
[16:36] <RoAkSoAx> such as: Hearbeat V1/V2, DRBD 3-node, DRBD integration with Heartbeat, keepalived, HAProxy, and so on
[16:36] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: drbd 3-node is supported in 9.04
[16:37] <nxvl> mathiaz: when wasn't?
[16:37] <mathiaz> and that creating a team which would look after these specific packages may be a better idea
[16:37] <ivoks> mathiaz: i agree
[16:37] <nijaba> ivoks: I thought DRBD could support up to 8 nodes now?
[16:38] <ivoks> nijaba: maybe some newer versions, but the one in 9.04 supports 3
[16:38] <nijaba> ivoks: ok, thanks
[16:38] <ivoks> nijaba: and that was a major move :)
[16:38] <RoAkSoAx> nijaba, it supports 8 block devices
[16:38] <RoAkSoAx> per each node
[16:38] <ivoks> ah, right...
[16:38] <nijaba> hence the confusion, thanks :)
[16:38] <RoAkSoAx> well anyways, so how we should proceed on these
[16:39] <mathiaz> I'd suggest to create the ubuntu-ha team
[16:39] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: i would love to help with ubuntu-ha team
[16:39] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: but i have couple of questions
[16:39] <mathiaz> and make the team a bug contact for relevant packages
[16:39] <mathiaz> That way you could start to look after the package
[16:40] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: do you think we should support both linuxha and rhcs or just linuxa?
[16:40] <mathiaz> starting by triagging the bugs, then starting fixing them
[16:40] <mathiaz> once you get a handle on the state of the HA package in Ubuntu, we can think about improvements
[16:40] <RoAkSoAx> ivoks, well i wouldn't know for sure... most of my work is with linuxha
[16:41] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: ok...
[16:41] <RoAkSoAx> i do know that companies thinks that rhcs is only for red hat based systems
[16:41] <RoAkSoAx> and that is far from bneing the truth
[16:41] <ivoks> cause of the name
[16:41] <ivoks> if apache was called Debian Apache, everybody would think it's debian only :)
[16:41] <RoAkSoAx> indeed
[16:41] <mathiaz> ivoks: RoAkSoAx these discussions could be hold on mailing list
[16:42] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, ok :)
[16:42] <nxvl> ivoks: or if ufw was named Ubuntu Firewall
[16:42] <mathiaz> now that LP support mailing list it's easy to get one setup for the ubuntu-ha team
[16:43] <kirkland> mathiaz: i recommend pinging someone in #launchpad as soon as you make the mailing list request ;-)
[16:43] <jdstrand> the 'u' in ufw has always been rather flexible, see /usr/share/doc/ufw/README.gz "What's in a name?" ;)
[16:43] <mathiaz> so to move things forward: create an ubuntu-ha team, create a mailing list for, make the ubuntu-ha team a bug contact for relevant packages and start triagging bugs
[16:44] <RoAkSoAx> ok
[16:44] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: would you mind taking this task?
[16:44] <nxvl> jdstrand: i know, that's why i was joking about that :D
[16:44] <jdstrand> nxvl: :)
[16:44] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, of course
[16:45] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: i'll join the team
[16:45] <mathiaz> [ACTION] RoAkSoAx to create an ubuntu-ha team, create a mailing list for, make the ubuntu-ha team a bug contact for relevant packages and start triagging bugs
[16:45] <MootBot> ACTION received:  RoAkSoAx to create an ubuntu-ha team, create a mailing list for, make the ubuntu-ha team a bug contact for relevant packages and start triagging bugs
[16:45] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] New HowTo's for the Server Guide, Clustering Related.
[16:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  New HowTo's for the Server Guide, Clustering Related.
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> ivoks, awesome
[16:46] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: I think this point is related to the one above.
[16:46] <mathiaz> I'm sure sommer would love help in this area and would accept contributions
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, indeed, i'll be providing tutoriales of heartbeat v1/v2, integration with drbd, drbd 3 node, keepalived, and so on
[16:47] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: Have you looked at the wiki page on help.ubuntu.com/community/ ?
[16:47] <sommer> RoAkSoAx: yes, any help would be awesome
[16:49] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: I'd suggest to have a look at the community help pages on h.u.com/community/, find which one are related to HA and review them
[16:50] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, will do
[16:51] <mathiaz> [ACTION] RoAkSoAx to look at the wiki pages on h.u.com/community/ and identify the ones relevant to HA
[16:51] <MootBot> ACTION received:  RoAkSoAx to look at the wiki pages on h.u.com/community/ and identify the ones relevant to HA
[16:51] <mathiaz> Anything else related to this topic?
[16:51] <RoAkSoAx> not from me
[16:51] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:51] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:52] <mathiaz> Anything else to add?
[16:53] <RoAkSoAx> ivoks, https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ha
[16:54] <ivoks> k
[16:55] <nealmcb> ivoks: thanks again for the jaunty work on mail integration, and getting good press for Ubuntu!
[16:55] <nijaba> mathiaz: great mentions in the press lately, I think it is worth a big round of applause
[16:55] <ivoks> nealmcb: :)
[16:55]  * mathiaz cheers at ivoks 
[16:56] <nijaba> and dustin too: http://tinyurl.com/dfxqpc
[16:56] <nealmcb> yeah!
[16:56] <nealmcb> the whole team!   Good to have you back, mathiaz!
[16:56] <ivoks> it wasn't that good press :/
[16:56] <nealmcb> press is always iffy.  but even bad press brings eyeballs and progress
[16:56]  * kirkland high fives around!
[16:57] <mathiaz> allright - time to wrap up
[16:57] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:57] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:57] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place?
[16:58] <sommer> sure
[16:59] <kirkland> mathiaz: ack!
[16:59] <mathiaz> great - see you all next week, same time, same place
[16:59] <RoAkSoAx> see ya guys!
[16:59] <mathiaz> enjoy a beer while admiring jaunty and shaping karmic!
[16:59] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
