{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting (jib)
* Beta1 status review (ttx)
** Beta1Freeze-affected specs
** Beta1-targeted bugs
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** Bug Bug:531823 - Lucid guests oops in kvm_leave_lazy_mmu during boot
** Bug Bug:527208 - ec2 instance fails boot, no console output on c1.xlarge
* Euca2ools/Boto 1.9 test coverage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Boto19TestCoverage (ttx)
* Server Papercuts (ttx)
** Status for beta1: https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/lucid-beta-1
** Nominations review: https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs?search=Search&field.status=New
* Bugzapping status (kirkland)
* Server documentation status (ttx, asommer)
* Server team upload rights (Daviey, mathiaz)
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Action points from previous meetings =====

Mathiaz to discuss with cjwatson about ubuntu-server upload team, not done yet. 

===== Beta1 Status review =====

BetaFreeze is thursday. Only beta targeted bugs will be accepted which doesnt stop you from working on lower priority bugs and waiting for them to be queued. This affects several specs such as the eucalyptus-merging-and-packaging, since we might want to target several bugs to fix.  Things for papercuts, bugzapping, puppet-testsuite: fixes of lesser importance should be queued for post beta1freeze.

The following bugs are targeted for Beta1:

* 499389
* 526480
* 519513

===== Weekly Updates & Questions from QA Team =====

Hggdh still mentioned that the Mysql 5.0 testsuite is still failing to build. However, since Mysql 5.0 is going to be removed it should probably be removed from the automated testsuite build process. It was also noticed that Atlas was being built as well. It was questioned why it is being built in the PPA as well. Hggdh will also look at how the UEC test rig is run as well.

[ACTION] hggdh to remove mysql5.0 and question atlas in the build regression test rig

===== Weekly Updates & Questions from Kernel Team =====

Bug #527208 is still outstanding and will not make it for the beta since the kernel is closed on monday. For bug #531823 we hope to have a work around for Lucid. JJohansen mentioned that we had a late rebasing for the EC2 kernel so keep your eyes open for bugs. The vlan-modules udeb should be available in beta1 as well.

===== Euca2ools/Boto 1.9 test coverage =====

We run our euca2ools with boto 1.9 while upstream tests with boto 1.8 and we always tend to run the same set of commands. In order to get confidence that lesser used commands are working, ttx prepared a testcase page coverage at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Boto19TestCoverage. When you use the euca2ools commands succesfully please update the page. For the more complex commands, the idea is 
test the optional parameters as well, which will take more time. If you find something broken please open a bug and let smoser know.

===== Server Papercuts =====

Status for beta-1 : https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/lucid-beta-1

Ttx remarked that 4 bugs out of 14 still open. Please feel free to fix what you can especially before BetaFreeze. However there was no nominations this week.

[ACTION] ttx to blog about the beta-1 campaign so far, to trigger new candidates

===== Bugzapping status =====

Kirkland mentioned the qemu-kvm bugs were cut in half. Ttx said that the bug zapping was going on wednesday and bug fixing was going on thursday. These are the bugzapping days coming up in the future:

* Eucalyptus (week after next)
* Mysql (Week of Apr 1) 

===== Server documentation =====

Ttx wanted to get an update from asommer about the Ubuntu Server Guide documentation however asommer was not available. Ttx noted there was a couple of sections out of date and was wondering if help was needed to update it.

[ACTION] ttx to bring up status of server doc in an email thread

===== Weekly SRU Review =====

Bug #530945 was the only one to bring for an SRU.

===== Open Discussion =====

* zul mentioned that PHP 5.3.1 transition was mostly done.
* smoser wanted people to test EBS root volume for EC2.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, March 17th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[14:06] <ttx> #startmeeting
[14:06] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:06. The chair is ttx.
[14:06] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:07]  * jjohansen fades in
[14:07] <ttx> Agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[14:07] <ttx> jib is on a plane somewhere, so I'll chair. zul is our scribe today
[14:07] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:07] <ttx> * mathiaz to sync up with cjwatson re: ubuntu-server upload team
[14:08] <mathiaz> ttx: not done
[14:08] <ttx> [ACTION] mathiaz to sync up with cjwatson re: ubuntu-server upload team
[14:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to sync up with cjwatson re: ubuntu-server upload team
[14:08] <ttx> [TOPIC] Beta1 status review
[14:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Beta1 status review
[14:09] <ttx> Beta1Freeze is tomorrow... Only beta1-targeted bugs will be accepted, which doesn't prevent you from queueing less important bugs
[14:09] <ttx> That should affect several specs
[14:10] <ttx> eucalyptus-merging-and-packaging: we might want to target extra bugfixes (currently only the upgrade stuff is targeted)
[14:10] <kirkland`> ttx: i have a qemu-kvm upload coming
[14:10] <ttx> kirkland`: we'll review the list before I leave for vacation
[14:10] <kirkland`> ttx: okay
[14:11] <ttx> apt-mirror/ec2: this should be delivbered without image changes, by reusing the current DNS setup
=== kirkland` is now known as kirkland
[14:11] <ttx> papercuts, bugzapping, puppet-testsuite: fixes of lesser importance should be queued for post beta1freeze
[14:11] <ttx> Beta1-targeted bugs :
[14:12] <ttx> bug 499389
[14:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 499389 in bacula "karmic->lucid auto-ugprade test failure" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/499389
[14:12] <ttx> zul: you're on it ?
[14:12] <zul> worked on that last night im just want to talk to mvo about it
[14:12] <ttx> ok.
[14:12] <ttx> bug 526480 -- still pending MIR team review
[14:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 526480 in liblog-log4perl-perl "[MIR] liblog-log4perl-perl" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/526480
[14:12] <ttx> bug 519513
[14:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 519513 in eucalyptus "UEC upgrade from 9.10 karmic to Lucid fails" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/519513
[14:13] <ttx> kirkland: looking good ?
[14:14] <kirkland> ttx: i think so
[14:14] <kirkland> ttx: working on it today
[14:14] <kirkland> ttx: should have something by EoW
[14:14] <ttx> kirkland: cool !
[14:15] <ttx> Questions/comments on Beta1 ?
[14:15] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[14:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[14:16] <ttx> hggdh: hi !
[14:16] <ttx> hggdh: around ?
[14:16] <mathiaz> kirkland: are you done with the UEC testing with the DC hardware?
[14:17] <ttx> ok, let's do kernel forst
[14:17] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:17] <ttx> jjohansen: hi !
[14:17] <jjohansen> hi
[14:17] <jjohansen> so we still have Bug #527208 outstanding
[14:17] <ttx> whats'up in the lower rings ?
[14:17] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 527208 in linux-ec2 "ec2 instance fails boot, no console output on c1.xlarge" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/527208
[14:18] <jjohansen> it won't make beta1 as the kernel closed monday
[14:18] <hggdh> ttx, I am here -- looking at logs
[14:18] <ttx> hggdh: we'll come back to you in a few
[14:18] <ttx> we also have https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/531823
[14:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 531823 in linux "[lucid] All linux guests oops in kvm_leave_lazy_mmu during boot (9.04, 9.10, 10.04)" [High,In progress]
[14:19] <ttx> will we have a workaround for this one soon, or after beta 1 ?
[14:19] <jjohansen> for the Lucid or Karmic bug?
[14:20] <ttx> jjohansen: lucid ?
[14:20] <jjohansen> Soon I hope
[14:20] <ttx> but with kernel frozen that will be post-beta 1 ?
[14:21] <jjohansen> correct
[14:21] <ttx> jjohansen: ok, maybe comment and update milestone to reflect that
[14:21] <ttx> anything else for kernel ?
[14:21] <jjohansen> yes
[14:22] <ttx> back to...
[14:22] <jjohansen> we had a late conflict ridden rebase for the EC2 kernel, so keep your eyes out for new bugs
[14:22] <mathiaz> jjohansen: IIUC the vlan-modules udeb should be available in beta1?
[14:22] <jjohansen> mathiaz: yeah
[14:22] <mathiaz> jjohansen: great - thanks
[14:23] <ttx> smoser: ^ ec2 kernel rebase
[14:23] <smoser> i see.
[14:23] <ttx> ok, back to...
[14:23] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[14:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[14:23] <ttx> hggdh: hi :)
[14:23] <hggdh> hi
[14:23] <ttx> what's up ?
[14:24] <hggdh> we have now atlas failing on the regression PPA. I do not understand the error:http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/392548/
[14:24] <hggdh> ans MySQL is still failing
[14:24] <hggdh> I have a question: is coreutils server, or core?
[14:25] <mathiaz> hggdh: why is atlas regression tested?
[14:25] <ttx> probably foundations land, mathiaz could confirm
[14:25] <zul> what is atlas btw?
[14:25] <mathiaz> hggdh: coreutils is fondation IMO
[14:25] <hggdh> mathiaz: I do not know why atlas, it was already there
[14:26] <ttx> hggdh: ask soren about it when you get a chance
[14:26] <mathiaz> hggdh: well - it's in universe and I'm not sure it's server related
[14:26] <mathiaz> zul: atlas - Automatically Tuned Linear Algebra Software
[14:26] <ttx> zul/mathiaz: mysql is still blocking on the certificate ?
[14:27] <ttx> who can fix that ?
[14:27] <mathiaz> ttx: I'd have to look at the logs
[14:27] <hggdh> even more it states it is related to numerical software...
[14:27] <hggdh> will ask Soren
[14:27] <zul> ttx: i have a fix but its failing somewhere else now
[14:27] <mathiaz> hggdh: IIUC it's 5.0 that fails
[14:27] <ttx> zul: you're on it ?
[14:28] <hggdh> mathiaz: mysql-dfsg-5.0 5.1.30really5.0.83-0ubuntu3
[14:28] <zul> ttx: yeah ill take some time to look at it agian
[14:28] <mathiaz> hggdh: 5.0 is scheduled to be removed from the archive in lucid
[14:28] <ttx> mathiaz: you mean we shouldn't care ?
[14:28] <mathiaz> hggdh: so there is not point in regression testing 5.0 in lucid
[14:29] <ttx> looks like the contents of the regression rig needs to be updated
[14:29] <hggdh> sounds like it
[14:29] <hggdh> suggestions welcome
[14:29] <ttx> [ACTION] hggdh to remove mysql5.0 and question atlas in the build regression test rig
[14:29] <MootBot> ACTION received:  hggdh to remove mysql5.0 and question atlas in the build regression test rig
[14:29] <mathiaz> hggdh: is there a list of packages being published?
[14:29] <mathiaz> hggdh: and is there a summary of the build failure (and since when)?
[14:30] <hggdh> mathiaz: yet unknown for first Q, yes, for second. At least I receive emails on the failures
[14:30] <mathiaz> hggdh: IMO there isn't much visibility on what is done in the regression testing PPA
[14:31] <ttx> hggdh: try to see inside the QA team how you want to handle that, not sure sharing soren's rig is the best way going forward
[14:31] <hggdh> I will look at it now. So far I just left it running (and did not worry)
[14:31] <mathiaz> hggdh: I don't know what's is tested and get notified only when there are build failures
[14:31] <mathiaz> hggdh: right - at least there is something in place
[14:31] <ttx> hggdh: did you start looking into the UEC test rig ?
[14:31] <hggdh> so we need to revisit it
[14:32] <mathiaz> hggdh: and it's been useful so far IMO
[14:32] <mathiaz> hggdh: the process may need to be reviewed at next UDS
[14:32] <hggdh> ttx: no really. kirkland gave me some links to look at, but suggested to wait for the current tests to end
[14:32] <ttx> hggdh: ok
[14:32] <ttx> anything else for the QA team ?
[14:33] <mathiaz> hggdh: right - once kirkland is done, I'll give you an overview of the beast
[14:33] <hggdh> not right now
[14:33] <kirkland> mathiaz: hggdh: i'm done now!
[14:33] <kirkland> mathiaz: it's all yours
[14:33] <ttx> [TOPIC] Euca2ools/Boto 1.9 test coverage
[14:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Euca2ools/Boto 1.9 test coverage
[14:33] <mathiaz> hggdh: ^^ - ok we should sync up later after the meeting then
[14:34] <hggdh> mathiaz: roj
[14:34] <ttx> Background: we run our euca2ools with boto 1.9 while upstream tests with boto 1.8
[14:34] <ttx> We also tend to run always the same basic set of commands (I know I do)
[14:35] <ttx> so in order to get confidence that lesser-used commands are working, I prepared a test coverage page
[14:35] <ttx> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Boto19TestCoverage
[14:35] <ttx> When you use a euca2ools command succesfully, please update that page.
[14:35] <ttx> For the mre complex commands, the idea is to test the optional parameters as well, which will take more time
[14:36] <ttx> I know smoser has been running quite a few of those already, we just need to make sure we cover them all.
[14:36] <ttx> questions ?
[14:37] <ttx> (this will probably be a beta2 target)
[14:37] <smoser> and, please, when you find something broken, open a bug
=== robbiew_ is now known as robbiew
[14:37] <smoser> and copy me, its probably easily fixed, but not if we dont' know about it.
[14:37] <ttx> bonus points if you can check if the bug also exists with boto 1.8
[14:37] <ttx> smoser: any way to easily test with boto 1.8 ?
[14:38] <smoser> which is, actually easy to do. i will post instructions on how.
[14:38] <ttx> smoser: ok, just update the wikipage
[14:38] <smoser> yes
[14:38] <ttx> [TOPIC] Server Papercuts
[14:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server Papercuts
[14:38] <ttx> Status for beta-1 : https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/lucid-beta-1
[14:38] <ttx> 4 bugs still open from a total of 14
[14:39] <ttx> Please feel free to fix what you can, especially before Beta1Freeze
[14:39] <ttx> No nominations this week, which is quite disappointing
[14:40] <ttx> maybe some more blogging needs to be done about it
[14:40] <ttx> i can't beleieve we identified all the pain points
[14:40] <ttx> We only have 5 targets for beta2, so 9 more should be identified
[14:41] <ttx> Comments ?
[14:41] <zul> maybe blog about it a bit more
[14:42] <ttx> [ACTION] ttx to blog about the beta-1 campaign so far, to trigger new candidates
[14:42] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to blog about the beta-1 campaign so far, to trigger new candidates
[14:42] <ttx> [TOPIC] Bugzapping status (kirkland)
[14:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  Bugzapping status (kirkland)
[14:42] <ttx> kirkland: quick status ? Samba started today.
[14:42] <mathiaz> ttx: aha - that explains the sudden increase in samba related bug mail
[14:43] <kirkland> ttx: i think it went well so far
[14:43] <zul> mathiaz: its not just me ;)
[14:43] <kirkland> ttx: qemu-kvm's bugs cut in half
[14:43] <ttx> kirkland: is there anything planned for next week already ?
[14:43] <kirkland> ttx: and i'm a lot more confident in our qemu-kvm offering now
[14:43] <kirkland> ttx: not planned, no ... i could lead a libvirt one, i suppose
[14:43] <kirkland> ttx: but i'd be happy to see someone else lead one too
[14:43] <kirkland> s/too/instead/g
[14:44] <ttx> For those interested, we are running a two-day samba bugzapping effort... Today is bugtriage day, in #ubuntu-bugs with the QA team
[14:44] <ttx> (combined with a bugday, which proves very fruitful)
[14:44] <ttx> At the end of today we should have bugfixing targets for tomorrow.
[14:44] <kirkland> ttx: week after next is eucalyptus/euca2ools
[14:45] <ttx> We'll coordinate bugfixing tomorrow in #ubuntu-server
[14:45] <mathiaz> and there is a mysql one scheduled as well
[14:45] <ttx> mathiaz: when is it ?
[14:45] <mathiaz> ttx: week of April 1st
[14:45] <mathiaz> ttx: just before Beta2 freeze
[14:45] <ttx> sounds like a bad joke.
[14:46] <ttx> anything else on the bugzapping subject ?
[14:46] <mathiaz> ttx: :) it's gonna be the last days of March
[14:46] <kirkland> not from me
[14:46] <ttx> [TOPIC] Server documentation status (ttx, sommer)
[14:46] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server documentation status (ttx, sommer)
[14:46] <kirkland> well, thanks to all who have participated
[14:46] <mathiaz> ttx: nothing on the 1st of April (it's BetaFreeze2 actually)
[14:46] <ttx> I wanted to get a current status on the server documentation
[14:46] <ttx> sommer: around ?
[14:47] <ttx> I identified a few outdated things in the current guide
[14:47] <ttx> was wondering if help was needed to fix it
[14:47] <ttx> example: it talks about screen-profiles, likewise-open5
[14:47] <ttx> requirements look like they need a refresh
[14:47] <ttx> UEC is absent
[14:48] <ttx> See http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/
[14:49] <ttx> OK, I'll sync with sommer by email on the subject -- feel free to chime in with the outdated stuff you find
[14:49] <kirkland> ttx: i'll gladly update the screen-profiles -> byobu bits
[14:49] <ttx> [ACTIOn] ttx to bring up status of server doc in an email thread
[14:49] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to bring up status of server doc in an email thread
[14:50] <ttx> [TOPIC] Server team upload rights (Daviey, mathiaz)
[14:50] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server team upload rights (Daviey, mathiaz)
[14:50] <ttx> mathiaz: delayed to next week ?
[14:50] <mathiaz> ttx: yes
[14:50] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[14:50] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[14:50] <mathiaz> so I cleaned up the nominations lists
[14:51] <mathiaz> there are two nominations for karmic:
[14:51] <mathiaz> bug 530945
[14:51] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 530945 in keepalived "[SRU] keepalived in karmic" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/530945
[14:51] <mathiaz> bug 34181
[14:51] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 34181 in mysql-dfsg-5.0 "locale and charset problem in mysql - default character set should be set to utf8" [Wishlist,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/34181
[14:52] <mathiaz> I'm going to decline the latter
[14:52] <ttx> yes
[14:52] <ttx> I'd tend to accept the nomination for the first one
[14:52] <ttx> Andres knows what he is doing :)
[14:53] <ttx> He will probably push the SRU through
[14:53] <mathiaz> ok - karmic bugs processed
[14:53] <zul> we might want 182572 in hardy
[14:53] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:53] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:53] <mathiaz> anything worth ^^ in there
[14:54] <mathiaz> bug 182572
[14:54] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 182572 in server-papercuts "Samba Fails to Split GECOS on Comma" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/182572
[14:54] <mathiaz> kirkland: anything SRU worthy that came out of the qemu bug zap?
[14:54] <ttx> zul: it's ostly cosmetic
[14:54] <kirkland> mathiaz: i don't think so
[14:55] <ttx> nothing from me
[14:55] <mathiaz> allright then
[14:55] <mathiaz> that's all for the SRU review
[14:55] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[14:55] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[14:56] <zul> php 5.3.1 is mostly done
[14:56] <hggdh> this is the current list of packages being regression-tested (from Soren):
[14:56] <zul> debian has 5.3.2 which fixes a couple of issues with things like mediawiki
[14:56] <Daviey> zul: 5.3.2 bug fix only release didn't seem like a good idea?
[14:56] <Daviey> bah, too slow
[14:57] <zul> Daviey: im thniking of it for beta2
[14:57] <ttx> smoser: help needed testing EBS root ?
[14:57] <smoser> anyone who wants to start an EBS root volume and kick it a bit is my friend
[14:57] <smoser> and will be awarded a or other beverage if they tell me their experiences
[14:57] <zul> as in kick it when its down? ;)
[14:58] <mathiaz> smoser: is the information on which EBS volume to test available somewhere?
[14:58] <hggdh> packages = libvirt postgresql 8.3 and 8.4, mysql 5.0, openldap, php5, python2.6, and atlas
[14:58] <smoser> mathiaz, just in my email to the list at the moment.
[14:58] <smoser> to multiple lists
[14:58] <smoser> hold on, let me dig url
[14:58] <mathiaz> and I'd also like to congratulate the whole team for the New,Undecided daily bug triagging
[14:58] <mathiaz> the whole backlog has been processed last week
[14:59] <smoser> http://groups.google.com/group/ec2ubuntu/browse_thread/thread/a7fdc6f714f71085/5efd475e9e536a9f?lnk=gst&q=ebs+root#5efd475e9e536a9f
[14:59] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://groups.google.com/group/ec2ubuntu/browse_thread/thread/a7fdc6f714f71085/5efd475e9e536a9f?lnk=gst&q=ebs+root#5efd475e9e536a9f
[14:59] <mathiaz> so congrats to all!
[14:59]  * ttx highfives with all the team
[14:59] <mathiaz> now we should just stay on cruise control
[14:59] <mathiaz> so make sure to review the list on your assigned day
[14:59] <ttx> ok
[14:59] <kirkland> \o/
[15:00] <ttx> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[15:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[15:00] <ttx> Next week, same time, same place
[15:00] <ttx> #endmeeting

</pre>
