{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
04:04	markvandenborre	who is here for the locoteams meeting?
04:05	GazzaK	hi or something
04:05	markvandenborre	anyone else?
04:05	markvandenborre	Seveas, you awake?
04:05	markvandenborre	JanC,
04:08	dsas	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamMeeting is the meeting agenda
04:08	dsas	I think I read on the list that Jono may not be able to make it.
04:09	Seeker`	Does jono have to be here for the meeting to happen?
04:09	markvandenborre	dsas, you feel like guiding this meeting?
=== Seeker` thinks it was very kind of dsas to volunteer :P
04:09	dsas	bah
04:09	markvandenborre	:)
04:10	markvandenborre	dsas, is that a yes or a no?
04:10	effie_jayx	Seeker`, he said he was not attending
04:10	dsas	that's a "please someone else step up"
04:10	markvandenborre	ok, I'll see what we can make out of this
=== _nairoV applauds markvandenborre
04:11	dsas	I don't know anything about the issues in the agenda...
04:11	markvandenborre	1. https://launchpad.net/products/ubuntu-website/+bug/51382
04:11	Ubugtu	Malone bug 51382 in ubuntu-website "Suggestion: LoCo Teams to Free Support Page" [Undecided,Fix released]
04:12	markvandenborre	joey doesn't seem to be around
04:12	markvandenborre	anyone else was involved?
04:12	markvandenborre	any thoughts about it that might be interesting to add to the discussion?
04:13	markvandenborre	let's take 2 minutes to read through it
04:13	markvandenborre	for those who haven't yet, then comment
04:13	dsas	I've pinged mdke.
04:15	dsas	Right, so what we need to do is ask each team if they provide that kind of support and make a list on the wiki, then get mdke to change the link.
04:16	_nairoV	do we have said wiki page?
04:16	dsas	_nairoV: Not yet.
04:16	markvandenborre	I thought I had seen it in some mailing list post
04:16	_nairoV	dsas: thanks
04:17	markvandenborre	any more suggestions on this?
04:17	dsas	markvandenborre: I didn't see anything likely in CategoryLoCoTeams
04:18	markvandenborre	maybe we should post on the locoteams list about this
04:18	_nairoV	markvandenborre: we are setting up framewrok for face to face support in Ohio
04:18	markvandenborre	_nairoV, same thing for us
04:19	_nairoV	I think it would be helpful for there to be one page to rule them all....
04:19	dsas	markvandenborre: Yeah, we should post on the list, with a link to a wiki page and let people update it.
04:19	markvandenborre	Belgian team has this highly succesful user map
04:19	dsas	a FaceToFaceSupport page name sound ok?
04:19	markvandenborre	ok, so one wiki page with the kinds of local face-to-face support teams give, right?
04:19	_nairoV	dsas: yes
04:19	markvandenborre	dsas, sounds fine to me...
04:20	markvandenborre	dsas, you do it, and post to the mailing list?
04:20	dsas	markvandenborre: sure.
04:20	markvandenborre	ok, any other comments on this?
04:21	markvandenborre	next point
04:21	markvandenborre	interloco communications
04:21	markvandenborre	I believe (not sure) this has something to do with language problems, mostly
04:22	markvandenborre	of certain countries not having many people who are fluent enough in English to follow the locoteams mailing list
04:22	markvandenborre	getting information to flow between the international locoteams list and the local one is sometimes really difficult
04:22	markvandenborre	ideas for improving that?
04:23	Vorian_	markvandenborre: what about a loco planet?
04:23	markvandenborre	please explain yourself?
04:24	Vorian_	similar to http://planet.ubuntulinux.org/
04:25	markvandenborre	Vorian_, how would that help solve the language problem?
04:26	markvandenborre	it's basicly about having a quite active Chinese community for example, but few people who speak English enough in this community
04:26	Vorian_	not so sure, just an idea lol
04:26	markvandenborre	:)
04:27	Zelut	markvandenborre: perhaps assign ambassadors to teams that need translators, etc.
04:27	dsas	Hm, there must be a few english speakers that can act as go betweens
04:27	effie_jayx	ambassadors help a great deal :D
04:27	markvandenborre	ok, so how can we make their jobs easier?
04:28	markvandenborre	this is probably why something like ubuntu weekly news is so important
04:29	markvandenborre	because it condenses a lot of information from the international community into something easily translatable
04:29	dsas	how can we encourage people to translate it?
04:30	dsas	maybe we can add a note to the UWN itself asking for translators
04:30	markvandenborre	by giving it a maximum length, for example?
04:30	markvandenborre	the last one (before christmas I believe) was _really_ long
04:30	Vorian_	markvandenborre: that should help...
04:31	dsas	Yeah, they are growing a lot, I don't imagine the marketing team being eager to shrink it though
04:31	dsas	we could possibly flag up certain sections to be a higher priority to be translated
04:31	markvandenborre	dsas, they probably should, to make it easier for translations to get through...
04:31	markvandenborre	it's also about being read in the english capable community
04:31	markvandenborre	too long, won't get read entirely
04:32	markvandenborre	maybe we could also include a call for translators into it, if that doesn't happen already?
04:32	dsas	markvandenborre: To shorten it will require some contact with the marketing team, we should see what their response is.
04:32	markvandenborre	(well, "we", I mean, we could suggest the uwn people to do so)
04:32	markvandenborre	ok,
04:33	markvandenborre	so getting information out of the mostly native language locoteams to the international community
04:33	markvandenborre	any hints on stimulating that?
04:34	dsas	ah, it does contain "If you'd like to read the UWN in your native language, please check http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter for a list of translations." already.
04:34	markvandenborre	perfect
04:34	Zelut	i wonder if we could find translators from rosetta.  if they're already working on a language perhaps they wouldn't mind a tad more.
04:35	markvandenborre	good point...
04:35	Zelut	and if its just the weekly newsletter it shouldn't be *too* much extra work.. I wouldn't think
04:36	markvandenborre	so how about getting this really interesting news fact out of the Kurdistan or Bhutan team to the international community?
04:36	markvandenborre	(locoteams community)
04:37	markvandenborre	maybe stimulate them to send in robot translations + the original if they can't find a translation immediately?
04:37	Zelut	thats where I think the ambassadors come in.  making sure information flows both ways
04:37	markvandenborre	k
04:38	markvandenborre	next point, or we'll be running over time
04:38	Vorian_	:)
04:38	Zelut	recruit someone whos main responsibility is simply translating communications between teams.. I think we could find some interest inthat.
04:38	markvandenborre	Zelut, absolutely
04:38	markvandenborre	next: locoteams documentation, how to make it more practical
04:40	markvandenborre	any thoughts about this?
04:40	Zelut	you referring to the locoteamshowto, locoteamslist, etc?
04:40	markvandenborre	loco docs, loco faq, locoteam howto,...
04:40	markvandenborre	this stuff, yes
04:41	markvandenborre	it might be really interesting to compile all the information that has gathered into something more comprehensive
04:41	markvandenborre	think a small, easily printable booklet
04:42	markvandenborre	right now, there's lots of information, but not always easy to find your way around...
04:42	Zelut	i know it was a lot of guesswork when I created our team
04:42	Vorian_	Zelut: Same with us...
04:42	Zelut	a .pdf printable booklet would be nice I think
04:43	Zelut	a step 1, step 2, etc layout would be nice.
04:43	markvandenborre	maybe this is something to see on the mailing list if we can get a few people to work on it
04:43	markvandenborre	?
04:44	markvandenborre	I would gladly join such an effort...
04:44	Vorian_	I'll help
04:45	markvandenborre	other ways to improve this locoteams howto document?
04:45	markvandenborre	documentation, I mean...
04:45	markvandenborre	something that is really missing from it?
04:45	Vorian_	I don't think there is
04:46	Vorian_	It is just not organized as well as it could be
04:46	markvandenborre	maybe it's also a good idea to have docs about new subjects grow on the wiki first, then include them...
04:47	markvandenborre	ok, next point, women's group
04:47	markvandenborre	any women around, or people who know what this is about?
04:48	markvandenborre	let's all have a brief look at http://ubuntu-women.org/ then...
04:48	JoeyStanford	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWomen
04:48	JoeyStanford	both are the same
04:49	JoeyStanford	I believe the question was:
04:49	JoeyStanford	Ubuntu Women is a specialized community team (not necessarily Local)
04:49	JoeyStanford	Is there a place for them inside the LoCo structure.
04:49	dsas	I don't see why not, it's the same sort of thing...
04:50	markvandenborre	it seems like a perfect fit, considering we also have pure language oriented teams
04:50	markvandenborre	they aren't strictly locally linked either
=== JoeyStanford appologizes for being late. His calendaring software said this started in 10 mins, not 50 mins ago. bummer.
04:50	markvandenborre	where else would they fit in?
04:50	Zelut	after scanning through the wiki I think it seems more of a team like the marketing team, docs team, etc..
04:50	JoeyStanford	Mark, I think that's the crux.
04:51	Zelut	I think loco focuses more on regional support
04:51	markvandenborre	Zelut, locoteams is really broad
04:52	markvandenborre	for some things, it's as much about translations as about face to face support
04:52	markvandenborre	no locoteam is the same in the tasks it defines for itself
04:52	Seeker`	but the LoCo teams that is based on locations, be it countries or langugaes
04:53	Seeker`	Women aren't in countries of their own, and they speak the same languages
04:53	markvandenborre	there's Kurdish people in Belgium too
04:53	markvandenborre	who are part of the Kurdish team...
04:53	markvandenborre	and in the us, and everywhere around the globe
04:54	JoeyStanford	Seeker, in this case, the UW group is a world-wide group. You are correct, they do not have a single local area.  The question to me is "do they do the things that a LoCo does but without a set geographical area". If the answer is yes, then they are simply a specialized LoCo.
04:54	markvandenborre	Seeker`, do you think it would be bad if they joined the locoteams list?
04:54	Zelut	i think they could work with loco teams in efforts of translation but I don't know about considering them a specialized loco, just a new team
04:55	JoeyStanford	"the LoCo project is here to help groups of Ubuntu fans and enthusiasts work together in regional teams to help advocate, promote, translate, develop and otherwise improve Ubuntu."
04:55	Seeker`	markvandenborre: I dont think it would be bad as such, I am just trying to work out wether they are actually a LoCo team or not
04:55	JoeyStanford	If I read their wiki and web page correctly, they have nailed each point except "regional"
04:55	markvandenborre	Seeker`, are angels male or female :p
04:55	JoeyStanford	their region would be the Internet.
04:56	markvandenborre	I think we don't have to define them as a locoteam or not
04:56	markvandenborre	but we and they sure could benefit from communicating
04:56	Seeker`	markvandenborre: I haven't given any thought to the question, and it is irrelevant
04:56	markvandenborre	and the locoteams list looks like an obvious pleace for that...
04:56	Zelut	again, I think coordinating the loco efforts with them would be beneficial (in the same way we'll help coordinate & translate with the marketing team) but considering them a loco seems to open to the door to consider every team a specialized loco
04:57	Seeker`	if you have a womans LoCo team, why not have a LoCo for people called "Chris", or people with brown hair?
04:57	JoeyStanford	Zelut has a good point. One of the concerns at UDS MTV was having multiple LoCos in a region.
04:57	markvandenborre	ah, that way you mean...
04:57	markvandenborre	Seeker`, would that be a bad thing?
04:58	JoeyStanford	Normally specialized groups fall under the Community Council and not the LoCo team. In this case we have a specialized group which looks like a LoCo team but doesn't have a region.
04:58	markvandenborre	you could easily say "even if we're not sure if you're a loco or not, you're welcome"
04:58	Vorian_	I, for one, feel they should be welcome in the loco organization...for what its worth
04:59	markvandenborre	okay for everyone if we tackle the next subject?
04:59	Vorian_	should we table it?
04:59	Seeker`	I think we have just run out of time
04:59	Vorian_	there is another meeting now
04:59	markvandenborre	who is responsible for the next meeting?
05:00	Vorian_	ubuntugeek:
05:00	PriceChild	markvandenborre, ubuntugeek
05:01	markvandenborre	how to setup a LoCoteam newsletter (and avoid fragmentation)
05:01	Zelut	what would be included in a locoteam newsletter?
05:02	markvandenborre	the issue at stake here is that if you create a passive medium like a newsletter
05:02	dsas	markvandenborre: What is supposed to be in the news letter?
05:02	markvandenborre	translated pr for new ubuntu releases
05:02	markvandenborre	announcements of events the locoteam participates in
05:02	markvandenborre	announcements of other news relevant to the locoteam
05:03	Vorian_	success stories!
05:03	markvandenborre	things like that
05:03	markvandenborre	the issue jono has with this is
05:03	Zelut	sounds like similar things included in the UWN..
=== JoeyStanford agrees with Zelut.
05:03	markvandenborre	yes, but local level only
05:03	markvandenborre	something that we need to be very careful about
05:04	markvandenborre	is stimulating people who receive the newsletter
05:04	markvandenborre	to also join the more active locoteam list
05:04	markvandenborre	(so the local team list, not the international one)
05:04	markvandenborre	that's something particularly important to jono
05:05	markvandenborre	and he has something of a point there
05:05	JoeyStanford	Based on the above, at this time I would favour enhancing the UWN LoCo area over creation of a LoCo only newsletter.
05:06	JoeyStanford	UWN is in the beginnings of having it's issues translated.
05:06	Zelut	I think each of the LoCos probably send out newsletter type updates on their own lists, and we have the UWN which shares larger successes.. sounds like duplication.
05:06	JoeyStanford	Zelut, that's what my team does as well.
05:06	markvandenborre	we have the following situation:
05:06	Vorian_	Zelut: ditto
05:06	JoeyStanford	Zelut, but I think Jono's concern is to have one master LoCo newsletter
05:07	markvandenborre	lots of people on the locoteam list
05:07	markvandenborre	this list is for active participants
05:07	dsas	isn't the news worth folding into UWN though?
05:07	Vorian_	why don't we just start one, and work out any issues that come of it?
05:07	markvandenborre	(organising fairs, ...)
05:07	markvandenborre	Vorian_, what do you mean?
05:07	Vorian_	plan a newsletter for feb
05:07	Vorian_	see what reactions are
05:07	markvandenborre	what kind of a newsletter?
05:08	Vorian_	Loco specific
05:08	markvandenborre	what would be the added value of that?
05:08	Vorian_	with the topics you listed earlier
05:08	markvandenborre	locoteams list summary you mean?
05:08	Vorian_	yep
05:08	markvandenborre	isn't uwn enough?
05:08	markvandenborre	they have enough problems already keeping to a schedule
05:09	Vorian_	they could link to the loco news
05:09	markvandenborre	JoeyStanford, trying to explain why we are planning to run a local newsletter
05:10	markvandenborre	we have a lot of nl (or fr, for that matter) only people around
05:10	markvandenborre	who are only interested in more basic news like:
05:10	markvandenborre	new releases
05:10	markvandenborre	and events where ubuntu-be.org will be present
05:10	markvandenborre	this is quite a broad group
05:11	dsas	markvandenborre: Can't you just make a summary for UWN and then include any .be specifics?
05:11	markvandenborre	so we're talking really low frequency here
05:11	Vorian_	I say monthly
05:11	dsas	I don't have a problem with local newsletters, I must have misunderstood the idea.
05:11	markvandenborre	yes, very well possible
05:11	markvandenborre	the potential problem jono sees with this is fragmentation
05:12	markvandenborre	people not making the jump from the passive low frequency newsletter to the locoteam itself
05:12	markvandenborre	so we were looking for ideas on how to remedy that
05:12	dsas	there's no reason why you can't do your own newsletter and just link in to the few big news when it happens, or link to UWN saying "more news available at"
05:12	markvandenborre	good idea...
05:12	Vorian_	dsas: right on
05:13	markvandenborre	but also: link from the local newsletter to the local active volunteers mailing list
05:13	JoeyStanford	and more importantly to me, ensure the UWN has the details so we can spread the word to everyone else.
05:13	dsas	yeah, this shouldn't result in less info being passed to UWN
=== JoeyStanford agrees.
05:13	markvandenborre	if I understood jono correctly, this was not his objection
05:14	markvandenborre	he was more concerned about fragmenting the local community
05:14	markvandenborre	any hints on more ways to avoid that?
05:15	dsas	Currently if people don't want to be very active then what choices do they have: don't be part at all? Increasing ways of participation is not a bad thing.
05:15	markvandenborre	dsas, my thought exactly
05:16	JoeyStanford	fade to black
05:16	Vorian_	thanks markvandenborre !
05:16	markvandenborre	who's still interested, -> #ubuntu-locoteams
05:16	dsas	thanks markvandenborre for chairing
</pre>
