{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[WebArchitecture]]</nowiki> - We (ubuntu-eu) have problems setting up a simple web server - problem exposed, solution proposed, discussion welcomed :) (Yann Hamon)
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Screen Profiles =====

kirkland has been collecting screen profiles and hacks to provide them in a screen-profile package. mathiaz asked if there were any plans to enable screen by default on an new Ubuntu Server installation. kirkland explained that he was aiming at getting it included into main and shipped on the server cd. Moreover the first time screen is run a list of profiles would be shown.

Some work has been done on implementing a task bar in screen so that applets could be easily added.

ACTION: kirkland to upload a new version of the screen-profile package

ACTION: kirkland to create a wiki page to outline how-to implement a taskbar in screen

===== review KVM page refactoring =====

nijaba reported that he had finished refactoring the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KVM|KVM documenation]]</nowiki> from the help wiki.

===== SRU for ebox =====

Following last meeting discussion sommer prepared updated packages for ebox so that it can be installed in intrepid. Three bugs have been addressed. Packages are available for testing from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~asommer/+archive|sommer's PPA]]</nowiki>. mathiaz reminded that prior to doing an SRU for intrepid ebox should be fixed in jaunty.

ACTION: sommer to file a bug explaining the gconfd fix in ebox for intrepid.

ACTION: sommer to use bug 273486 to outline the openldap change.

ACTION: sommer to use bug 255368 to outline the fix for the authentication.

ACTION: zul to look at uploading the latest stable release of ebox to jaunty.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, January 13th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:01. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <nealmcb> o/
[16:01] <mathiaz> Welcome the very first meeting of the Server Team in the fabulious year 2039!
[16:01] <mathiaz> how is everyone doing?
[16:02] <nijaba> Great! Happy new year *
[16:02] <kirkland> \o/
[16:02] <sommer> err 2039
[16:02] <soren> o/
[16:02] <jdstrand>  \o
[16:04] <mathiaz> today's amazing agenda can be read online at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:04] <zul> in the year 2000....in the year 2000
[16:04] <mathiaz> ^^ is this accurate?
[16:05] <mathiaz> zul: has this been discussed last time?
[16:05] <soren> No, it's not the year 2000.
[16:05] <nijaba> mathiaz: please note that I just updated the agenda to remove what was discussed last time
[16:05] <soren> So that's highly inaccurate.
[16:05] <mathiaz> nijaba: ah ok. Thanks!
[16:05] <zul> mathiaz: no it wasnt discussed
[16:06] <mathiaz> so last meetings minutes can be found at:http://people.ubuntu.com/~chucks/mootbot.txt
[16:06] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Screen Profiles
[16:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Screen Profiles
[16:06] <mathiaz> what's up with that?
[16:07] <persia> Someone probably wants to update the text to say "From 16:00 to 17:00 UTC" as well.
[16:07] <kirkland> mathiaz: i owe several people merges
[16:07] <kirkland> mathiaz: and i need to address the concerns that Riddell raised about adding to the archive
[16:07] <mathiaz> persia: hm yes. Thanks for pointing this out
[16:08] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm going to spend sometime on this today
[16:08] <jdstrand> kirkland: are these concerns in a bug somewhere?
[16:08] <mathiaz> is there a wiki page to keep track of this work?
[16:08] <mathiaz> nealmcb: there was an action item related to a wiki page
[16:09] <Riddell> jdstrand: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-archive/2008-December/023487.html
[16:09] <Riddell> trivial to fix
[16:09] <jdstrand> heh, ok
[16:09] <jdstrand> Riddell: thanks
[16:09] <kirkland> Riddell: thanks, i was digging for that ;-)
[16:09] <nealmcb> mathiaz: right - I'll update the wiki if there is news
[16:09] <kirkland> jdstrand: yeah, it's trivial, i just havent gotten to it
[16:10] <mathiaz> nealmcb: what's the wiki page url?
[16:10] <nealmcb> !servergui
[16:10] <ubottu> Ubuntu server does not install a desktop environment or X11 by default in order to enhance security, efficiency and performance.  !eBox provides a GUI system management option via a web interface.  See https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerGUI for more background and options.
[16:11] <nealmcb> mathiaz: that is where I put a simple heads-up link to the screen stuff.  but it should have its own page too
[16:11] <mathiaz> nealmcb: ah ok! seems like a good plan
[16:12] <mathiaz> kirkland: what do you mean by owing several people merges?
[16:12] <mathiaz> kirkland: are you refering to screen only?
[16:12] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'd like to talk more about screen-profiles next week, once i've merged more of the contributions
[16:12] <mathiaz> kirkland: or other packages too
[16:12] <kirkland> mathiaz: no, the screen-profiles package
[16:12] <kirkland> mathiaz: nijaba has done a lot of work
[16:13] <kirkland> https://code.edge.launchpad.net/screen-profiles
[16:13] <nijaba> kirkland: yes, and I plan to do some more as time permits :)
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: also, nxvl has a proposed merge
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: this work will continue to be sort of spare-time, community driven
[16:13] <nijaba> kirkland: nxvl fix was already done in my branch
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: as dendrobates has indicated that this isn't Canonical work (really)
[16:14] <mathiaz> kirkland: great.
[16:14] <mathiaz> kirkland: it seems that there is some good feedback from the community
[16:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: i've been pleased with the response
[16:14] <mathiaz> kirkland: is there some plan to enable this by default?
[16:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm hoping to get it included into main, and on the server cd
[16:15] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm hoping the first time you run screen, you'll select your screen profile
[16:15] <mathiaz> kirkland: a similar experience to the default editor choice?
[16:15] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm also hoping that utility will give you an option of turning it "on by default" on a per user basis
[16:15] <kirkland> mathiaz: precisely
=== discoflux is now known as afflux
[16:16] <nealmcb> speaking of guis and ebox (as ubottu reminds us), I sent a message just now to foolano about helping with an SRU, based on https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ebox/+bug/255368
[16:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 255368 in ebox "ebox: Depends: libapache-authcookie-perl but it is not installable " [Undecided,Confirmed]
[16:16] <kirkland> nijaba: your thoughts?
[16:16] <jdstrand> kirkland: that sounds like the way to go to me. on for everyone by default sounds risky.
[16:16] <mathiaz> kirkland: how many profiles do you plan to have?
[16:16] <nijaba> kirkland: I think it could be set up by default...
[16:17] <kirkland> mathiaz: no target number ... i will say that most of the contributions/suggestions i've gotten so far have been changes to the initial default profile i set up
[16:17] <kirkland> mathiaz: i sort of expected people to create brand new profiles and submit those
[16:17] <kirkland> mathiaz: but it hasn't really worked out that way, for better or worse
[16:18] <kirkland> mathiaz: no matter, i'm perfectly happy having only 1 or 2, if they're good ;-)
[16:18] <kirkland> mathiaz: also, nijaba and i have been working on modularizing the profile itself
[16:18] <mathiaz> kirkland: yes. May be was is needed to have a default profile rather then having multiple profiles to choose from
[16:18] <kirkland> mathiaz: so it works more like adding "applets" to your gnome task bars
[16:18] <mathiaz> kirkland: ie provide a best-practice profile.
[16:18] <nijaba> kirkland: I am still working on the kb equivalent part
[16:19] <mathiaz> kirkland: allright - all of this seems great.
[16:19] <kirkland> mathiaz: have you seen/used it at all yet?
[16:19] <mathiaz> kirkland: nope - I'm just back from UDS :)
[16:19] <kirkland> actually, open question for the team ... has anyone used it yet?
[16:19] <sommer> kirkland: me
[16:19] <kirkland> UDS was a month ago :-)
[16:19] <sommer> kirkland: might be an older version though
[16:19] <nealmcb> kirkland: yes, briefly
[16:20] <kirkland> mathiaz: http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2008/12/ubuntu-server-includes-window-manager.html
[16:20] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - if you have some more ideas to work on, I'd suggest to write up a wiki page for that.
[16:20] <mathiaz> kirkland: so that people could help out in implementation
[16:21] <kirkland> mathiaz: good idea
[16:21] <mathiaz> kirkland: so to summarize, you'll upload a new package soon
[16:21] <mathiaz> kirkland: and work will continue to improve the profiles
[16:21] <kirkland> mathiaz: agreed.
[16:22] <mathiaz> kirkland: trying to implement a concept similar to a task bar in screen
[16:22] <kirkland> mathiaz: right, notifications being very important
[16:22] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to upload a new version of the screen-profile package
[16:22] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to upload a new version of the screen-profile package
[16:22] <mathiaz> kirkland: could you setup a wiki page to outline this task (taskbar in screen)?
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'll make it more general than that, but yes
[16:23] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to create a wiki page to outline how-to implement a taskbar in screen
[16:23] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to create a wiki page to outline how-to implement a taskbar in screen
[16:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: great - thanks!
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: the hardest part has been agreeing upon hotkeys
[16:23] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:23] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] review KVM page refactoring
[16:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  review KVM page refactoring
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: choosing things that don't conflict with other stuff
[16:24] <nijaba> kirkland: hence the modularization I am working on
[16:24] <mathiaz> nijaba: what's the state on that?
[16:24] <mathiaz> sommer: ^^
[16:24] <nijaba> mathiaz: if everything goes well, whould be ready EOW
[16:24] <mathiaz> nijaba: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KVM ?
[16:24] <nijaba> mathiaz: oh, on KVM --> Done
[16:25] <mathiaz> nijaba: ^^ this is what you've refactored?
[16:25] <nijaba> did it over the vacations
[16:25] <nijaba> yes
[16:25] <mathiaz> nijaba: there is still a note that says WIP on the wiki page
[16:25] <sommer> oh woops, was I supposed to help with that?
[16:25] <mathiaz> sommer: oh. Not necessarly
[16:26] <mathiaz> sommer: just that you're a documentation guru
[16:26] <nijaba> "#This is still work in progress! Feel free to jump in and extend this documentation! "?
[16:26] <mathiaz> nijaba: yes
[16:26] <mathiaz> nijaba: if the work is over, should this note be removed?
[16:26] <nijaba> mathiaz: even though I refactored it, the content can still be extended
[16:27] <mathiaz> nijaba: right - that's always the case with a wiki
[16:27] <nijaba> mathiaz: the note has almost always been there...
[16:27] <mathiaz> nijaba: oh ok. I thought you added it when you were working on refactoring the page.
[16:27] <nijaba> mathiaz: not this one :)
[16:28] <nijaba> soren, what do people think of it?
=== Zic_ is now known as Zic
[16:28] <nijaba> err, not soren, so...
[16:28] <mathiaz> nijaba: well - we could remove it if the pages seem complete enough
[16:28] <nijaba> mathiaz: sure
[16:28] <soren> nijaba: Oh, good, because I have no idea :)
[16:29] <mathiaz> nijaba: done.
[16:29] <nijaba> gerat
[16:29] <mathiaz> nijaba: ok - so it seems that this task has been completed now.
[16:29] <nijaba> mathiaz: yes, and I moved it away from the roadmap to the report
[16:30] <mathiaz> nijaba: great - thanks!
[16:30] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:30] <nijaba> np
[16:30] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] SRU for ebox
[16:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  SRU for ebox
[16:30] <mathiaz> nealmcb: ^^?
[16:30] <mathiaz> sommer: ^?
[16:30] <zul> I have a look at it, just need a couple of corrections done to the changelog and should be uploaded this week
[16:31] <mathiaz> zul: did you get an ACK from the motu-sru team?
[16:31] <sommer> also the packages are in my ppa if anyone wants to do more testing :)
[16:31] <mathiaz> zul: which version are you going to upload?
[16:32] <zul> mathiaz: not yet bugs need to be opened for the issues that we have, the patches have been backported from the ppa to the ones in the archive sommer can tell you what he did
[16:32] <nealmcb> zul cool!
[16:33] <mathiaz> sommer: hm - so you've backported the ldap fix?
[16:33] <sommer> basically the apache-authcookie code has been embedded into the new ebox version, and there's some updates for gconf and dbus in intrepid
[16:33] <sommer> mathiaz: yep, that too
[16:33] <mathiaz> sommer: ok - that's seems the best option for an SRU
[16:33] <mathiaz> sommer: only two packages to fix.
[16:33] <nealmcb> sommer/zul can you point to the ppa from that bug report?
[16:33] <zul> 3 packages to fix
[16:33] <sommer> 3, ebox, libebox, and ebox-usersandgroups
[16:33] <mathiaz> sommer: it seems that you've touched the minimal number of packages
[16:34] <nealmcb> and have either of you talked to foolano about this?
[16:34] <sommer> mathiaz: I also tested the rest and they seem to work fine
[16:34] <zul> nealmcb: no i havent
[16:34] <sommer> nealmcb: nope, I meant to ping him on IRC, but I did't run into any huge issues
[16:35] <mathiaz> sommer: ok - so it seems we have package ready.
[16:35] <zul> there is also a request to get the newer ebox in jaunty, if someone from the community want to get on it that would be great
[16:35] <mathiaz> what's the next step?
[16:35] <sommer> mathiaz: I think file some bugs and subscribe the sru team?
[16:36] <mathiaz> sommer: right. Now that the patches are ready, we can file specific bugs about them.
[16:36] <mathiaz> we'll also have to upload the new version of ebox to jaunty.
[16:36] <sommer> mathiaz: I should have that done this afternoon or this evening
[16:37] <sommer> mathiaz: what's the process for jaunty?
[16:37] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to file specific bugs for the SRU for ebox in intrepid.
[16:37] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to file specific bugs for the SRU for ebox in intrepid.
[16:37] <mathiaz> sommer: we need to get the new packages from foolano and review them.
[16:38] <mathiaz> nealmcb: did you get feedback from him?
[16:38] <nealmcb> nope
[16:38] <nealmcb> but I just wrote him, so getting a note in the bug report would get him up to date
[16:38] <mathiaz> nealmcb: which bug report are you refering to?
[16:38] <nealmcb> why are new bug reports needed?
[16:39] <nealmcb> Set above....
[16:39] <zul> for the ldap change and the gconfd changes
[16:39] <nealmcb> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ebox/+bug/255368
[16:39] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 255368 in ebox "ebox: Depends: libapache-authcookie-perl but it is not installable " [Undecided,Confirmed]
[16:39] <nealmcb> ok but they are mentioned I think in the bug or its dups
[16:39] <persia> If there are already bugs, repurposing is preferred, as it makes it easier for the SRU team to see that it's fixed-in-jaunty
[16:40] <nealmcb> see the dups also e.g. https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ebox/+bug/273486
[16:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 273486 in ebox "Current eBox packages in intrepid don't work at all (dup-of: 255368)" [Undecided,New]
[16:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 255368 in ebox "ebox: Depends: libapache-authcookie-perl but it is not installable " [Undecided,Confirmed]
[16:41] <mathiaz> hm - ok.
[16:42] <mathiaz> so bug 255368 is about one change
[16:42] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 255368 in ebox "ebox: Depends: libapache-authcookie-perl but it is not installable " [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/255368
[16:42] <mathiaz> as zul mentionned there are two others changes needed to fix ebox in intrepid
[16:43] <nealmcb> right but the other one lists the ldap issue
[16:43] <nealmcb> not sure about gconfd
[16:43] <zul> nealmcb: the gconfd change is needed because gconfd changed to dbus in intrepid
[16:43] <mathiaz> nealmcb: right - bug 273486 lists the ldap change
[16:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 273486 in ebox "Current eBox packages in intrepid don't work at all (dup-of: 255368)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/273486
[16:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 255368 in ebox "ebox: Depends: libapache-authcookie-perl but it is not installable " [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/255368
[16:44] <mathiaz> zul: is there  a bug about that?
[16:44] <zul> mathiaz: not yet sommer will be doing it tonight I believe
[16:45] <mathiaz> zul: ok.
[16:45] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to file a bug explaining the gconfd fix in ebox for intrepid.
[16:45] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to file a bug explaining the gconfd fix in ebox for intrepid.
[16:45] <mathiaz> sommer: bug 255368 should be use to outline the fix for the authentification
[16:45] <sommer> I'm confused, do we also need a bug about the authcookie thing and ldap?
[16:45] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 255368 in ebox "ebox: Depends: libapache-authcookie-perl but it is not installable " [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/255368
[16:46] <sommer> mathiaz: gotcha that works
[16:46] <mathiaz> sommer: and bug 273486 should be marked unduplicated and be used to outline the change for the ldap fix
[16:46] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 273486 in ebox "Current eBox packages in intrepid don't work at all (dup-of: 255368)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/273486
[16:47] <nealmcb> ahh - sounds good
[16:47] <mathiaz> sommer: bug 273486 makes a reference to dnsguardian
[16:47] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 273486 in ebox "Current eBox packages in intrepid don't work at all (dup-of: 255368)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/273486
[16:47] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 255368 in ebox "ebox: Depends: libapache-authcookie-perl but it is not installable " [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/255368
[16:47] <mathiaz> sommer: have you run into this issue?
[16:49] <sommer> mathiaz: no, the dansgaurdian stuff is only in the ebox ppa version
[16:49] <mathiaz> sommer: ok. great then.
[16:49] <sommer> mathiaz: not what's currently in intrepid... at least I think
[16:49] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to use bug 273486 to outline the openldap change
[16:49] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to use bug 273486 to outline the openldap change
[16:49] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 273486 in ebox "Current eBox packages in intrepid don't work at all (dup-of: 255368)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/273486
[16:49] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 255368 in ebox "ebox: Depends: libapache-authcookie-perl but it is not installable " [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/255368
[16:50] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to file a new bug explaining the gconfd change.
[16:50] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to file a new bug explaining the gconfd change.
[16:50] <mathiaz> sommer: as a reminder: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates outlines the procedure
[16:50] <sommer> mathiaz: cool thanks
[16:50] <mathiaz> sommer: and the format to use when creating/updating bugs for a SRU
[16:50]  * yann2 back for discussion about webarchitecture, if time permits later (sorry i was away)
[16:51] <mathiaz> sommer: so I think we have a plan for ebox SRU in intrepid.
[16:51] <nealmcb> thanks!
[16:51] <sommer> mathiaz: yeppers
[16:51] <mathiaz> OTOH we'll also have to update the version in jaunty
[16:52] <mathiaz> before having it fixed in intrepid.
[16:52] <zul> i can do that this afternoon
[16:52] <zul> while waiting for mysql to finish
[16:52] <mathiaz> zul: great - 0.12.6 seems to be available from the PPA
[16:53] <mathiaz> zul: you may wanna get in touch with upstream to see which one they suggest to upload to jaunty
[16:53] <zul> mathiaz: will do
[16:54] <mathiaz> zul: or at least the latest stable.
[16:54] <mathiaz> [ACTION] zul to look at uploading the lastest stable release of ebox to jaunty.
[16:54] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to look at uploading the lastest stable release of ebox to jaunty.
[16:55] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:55] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] WebArchitecture -
[16:55] <MootBot> New Topic:  WebArchitecture -
[16:55] <mathiaz> yann2: Isn't that a support issue rather than a development issue?
[16:55] <yann2> Hello - as I tried to explain in my small page on the wiki
[16:55] <yann2> mathiaz > no, i don't think so
[16:56] <mathiaz> yann2: the link doesn't work
[16:56] <yann2> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/WebArchitecture
[16:56] <yann2> basically the main issue is that we (ubuntu) run all the php apps  under the user www-data
[16:57] <yann2> and that we rely on mod_php and on php security features to get a feeling of security
[16:57] <mathiaz> yann2: right - there has been some discussion to provide mod_fcgid in main
[16:57] <yann2> things like safe_mode, that won't get supported in php6 anyway
[16:57] <yann2> mmh, I didnt know about that.
[16:57] <mathiaz> yann2: that's what was suggested by the security team and ivoks
[16:57] <yann2> but fastcgi, cgid, mod_itk or whatever -
[16:58] <mathiaz> yann2: it hasn't happend yet however.
[16:58] <yann2> php, python and otherwebapps really should run under their own user
[16:58] <yann2> right, I am glad someone put the topic up before me :) where could I contact them?
=== ubottu changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Current meeting: Kernel Team Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 06 Jan 21:00: Community Council | 07 Jan 03:00: America's Council | 07 Jan 16:00: Foundation Team | 07 Jan 17:00: QA Team
[16:58] <mathiaz> yann2: right. So I'll defer this discussion to the next meeting as we're running out of time
[16:58] <yann2> np
[16:58] <mathiaz> yann2: ivoks is interested in that
[16:59]  * persia hopes for an "Open Discussion" item.
[16:59] <mathiaz> yann2: https://launchpad.net/~ivoks
[16:59] <mathiaz> persia: I'm sorry we won't have time
[16:59] <yann2> thanks mathiaz  I will contact him
[16:59] <persia> mathiaz, OK.  I'll put it on the agenda for next week.
[16:59] <mathiaz> The kernel team meeting is following
[16:59] <mathiaz> persia: please do.
[16:59] <mathiaz> persia: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[17:00] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:00] <mathiaz> Next week, same time, same place?
[17:00] <sommer> o//
[17:00] <nijaba> +1
[17:01] <mathiaz> allright then - see you all next week, same time, same place.
[17:01] <mathiaz> and happy hacking on 9.04!
[17:01] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
