{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Maverick Blueprints and Specs
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** New proposed meeting time starting the Maverick cycle: Tuesday 6 pm UTC

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting (ttx) =====
* No action points

===== Maverick Blueprints and Specs =====
* Please have a look at specs where you are set as drafter, and set them to "Drafting" if you started drafting.  Some reassignment/balancing may occur
* Feature Definition Freeze is June 17th.  specs should be considered due for approval by May 27, which means they must be submitted for review by May 25th.
* For Server Team work, the Implementation section of the SpecTemplate is largely replaced by the Work Item tracker.
* this is the merging period, so please have a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging
* '''[ACTION]''' ttx to confirm spec submission deadlines with Jos
* '''[ACTION]''' ttx to walk SpamapS through the spec process

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
* hggdh expects to handle the UEC Testing spec with some input from mathiaz and smoser

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====
* mathiaz asked about a bug on his x201 laptop.  Very server-ish, indeed.

===== Weekly SRU review =====
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  
* There was a session at UDS discussing improvements to the SRU process.  This will result in a blueprint and work items.

===== Open Discussion =====
* The Canonical Server Team has grown, adding
** SpamapS (Clint Byrum): Web/Ops stack
** Davey (Dave Walker): UEC
** ccheney (Chris Cheney): Desktop Team on loan to server team for some UEC related work.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====
The next meeting will be: Tue May 25 18:00 UTC 2010

=== Log ===
<pre>
[18:57] <sommer> o//
[18:57] <RoAkSoAx> o/
[18:58] <Daviey> o/
[18:58] <zul> yo
[18:58] <Daviey> kirkland looking forward to it? :)
[19:00] <ttx> o/
[19:00] <ttx> Welcome everyone
[19:00] <mathiaz> /o//^98
[19:01] <hggdh> ~o~
[19:01] <ttx> to another season of the exciting adventures of the Ubuntu Server team
[19:01] <ttx> #startmeeting
[19:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:01. The chair is ttx.
[19:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:01] <Daviey> Ooooooo
[19:01] <zul> is it a sequal?
[19:01] <ttx> Agenda is up at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[19:01] <zul> or a prequal
[19:01] <smoser> \0
[19:01] <ttx> smoser is the lucky scribe
[19:02] <smoser> ah. joy.
[19:02] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:02] <ttx> No ACTION that I can find
[19:02]  * mathiaz agrees
[19:02] <ttx> [TOPIC] Maverick blueprints and specs (ttx)
[19:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick blueprints and specs (ttx)
[19:03] <ttx> So, while we recover from 5 (10?) days away from home, it's time to start drafting specs
[19:04] <ttx> Please have a look at specs where you are set as drafter, and set them to "Drafting" if you started drafting
[19:04] <ttx> I didn't manage to sync with Jos after UDS on potential reassignments
[19:04]  * Daviey doesn't have any, and would be happy to volunteer some if people are overloaded.
[19:04] <ttx> so please just take what you care the most about for now (or what you think will be assigned to you anyway)Ãƒ 
[19:05] <ttx> Daviey: I expect kirkland to offload some of his UEC specs to the rest of the team
[19:05] <ttx> Daviey: if not, I've one for you :)
[19:05] <Daviey> Oh joy :)
[19:05] <ttx> Daviey: but I'll wait for Jos to confirm first :P
[19:05] <Daviey> ok.
[19:06] <ttx> SpamapS: you should get a few too
[19:06] <ttx> SpamapS: hiding won't help you
[19:06] <zul> hehe
[19:06] <ttx> Any question on the blueprint/specs side ?
[19:07] <mathiaz> ttx: yes
[19:07] <mathiaz> ttx: what's the deadline for spec writing?
[19:07] <SpamapS> ttx: Jos assigned a few of the blueprints to me already
[19:07] <mathiaz> ttx: and how does it play with the first iteration of the cycle?
[19:07]  * SpamapS still will attempt hiding tho
[19:07] <ttx> mathiaz: that's a good question.
[19:07]  * ttx looks
[19:08] <RoAkSoAx> SpamapS: i'll ping you later on this week to discuss cloud-loadbalancing autoregistration. I alraedy have an idea on how to implement it :)
[19:08] <mathiaz> ttx: should the WI be defined for all BP?
[19:08] <SpamapS> ttx: is there a good wiki page on spec writing somewhere?
[19:08] <ttx> Feature Definition Freeze is on Jun 17th
[19:08] <SpamapS> RoAkSoAx: excellent, I look forward to hearing what you have in mind.
[19:09] <mathiaz> SpamapS: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpecTemplate
[19:09] <ttx> I'd expect specs to be filed and approved by May 27th
[19:09] <hggdh> being rather new, directions on spec writing are also welcome
[19:09] <mathiaz> ttx: when does the first iteration start?
[19:09] <mathiaz> hggdh: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpecTemplate
[19:09] <ttx> mathiaz: but again, haven't synced with Jos on the new release schedule yet
[19:09] <mathiaz> hggdh: SpamapS: use the SpecTemplate as template for the wiki page
[19:10] <ttx> mathiaz: it's already started, in a way
[19:10] <mathiaz> to outline what needs to be done
[19:10] <RoAkSoAx> SpamapS: :) we'll discuss that later this week since I believe we didn't have enough time at UDS session to discuss it
[19:10] <mathiaz> not all the sections will be needed
[19:10] <mathiaz> the focus is on getting the design section written
[19:10] <ttx> mathiaz: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickReleaseSchedule shows A2 is already started
[19:10] <hggdh> mathiaz: thanks
[19:10] <ttx> mathiaz: however, we can consider being in Iteration planning this week and the next
[19:11] <mathiaz> the implementation section has been superseeded with Work Items in the BP whiteboard
[19:11] <mathiaz> hggdh: SpamapS: see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WorkItemsHowto for we're tracking work items
[19:11] <ttx> mathiaz: Pending another direction, consider they are due for approval by May 27th, which means must be submitted for review by May 25th
[19:12] <smoser> it would be nice if mathiaz would update the spec template to indicate that
[19:12] <mathiaz> smoser: that == implmentation?
[19:12] <smoser> yes
[19:12] <mathiaz> smoser: I don't think it's official yet
[19:12] <ttx> SpamapS: i'll talk you through the process offline
[19:12] <mathiaz> smoser: it's more what I've found out last cycle
[19:12] <ttx> SpamapS: after the meeting
[19:13] <mathiaz> smoser: ttx may have another opinion on the use of the implementation section
[19:13] <mathiaz> smoser: moreover the SpecTemplate is a wiki template used throughout the whole Ubuntu project
[19:13] <ttx> mathiaz: no, I agree with you.
[19:14] <mathiaz> smoser: some team may choose to still use the implementation section
[19:14] <smoser> it surely would make sense to have it mentioned there at least "You may replace this with the work item tracker <link here>"
[19:14] <ttx> mathiaz: Sometime I use that section as a tracker when things are not easily tracked by work items
[19:14] <ttx> mathiaz: but that's purely optional and depending on the work needed
[19:15]  * ccheney is here too btw, forgot to announce earlier
[19:15] <ttx> Otherwise, this is the merging period, so please have a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging
[19:15] <mathiaz> for me, the design section == what we're trying to do (ie the end goal, the results)
[19:15] <mathiaz> and the implementation section == how we get there, which step, the plan (-> Work items)
[19:16] <ttx> mathiaz: for me, the Design discusses how we'll achieve the goal technically, and Implementation/WI show the detailed step by step plan
[19:16]  * kirkland is having irc proxy issues, but i'm here
[19:16] <ttx> kirkland: o/
[19:16] <mathiaz> ttx: right - I think we're in agreement here
[19:17] <ttx> OK, any other question on that ?
[19:17] <kirkland> ttx: please repeat any questions that were directed at me up until now
[19:17] <Daviey> mathiaz / ttx: Can you write a summary on the ML/Wiki?
[19:17] <ttx> Daviey: As soon as I have confirmed the deadlines with Jos, sure
[19:17] <mathiaz> I'm planning to use diagrams this cycle (following up on my whiteboard experiement at UDS) :)
[19:17] <Daviey> super
[19:17] <ttx> [ACTION] ttx to confirm spec submission deadlines with Jos
[19:17] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to confirm spec submission deadlines with Jos
[19:18] <ttx> [ACTIOn] ttx to walk SpamapS through the spec process
[19:18] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to walk SpamapS through the spec process
[19:18] <mathiaz> Daviey: are you asking for a summary of the spec guidelines as well?
[19:18] <Daviey> mathiaz: yes.. in diagram form :)
[19:18] <ttx> <ttx> Daviey: I expect kirkland to offload some of his UEC specs to the rest of the team
[19:18] <ttx> <ttx> Daviey: if not, I've one for you :)
[19:18] <Daviey> mathiaz: There seems to be some confusion/agreement.. and would be nice to have something to refer to.
[19:19] <ttx> kirkland: ^ (answering Daviey asking for some drafting work)
[19:19]  * mathiaz opens his 32nd document in Dia
[19:19]  * Daviey hopes kirkland's irc proxy issues are continuing
[19:19]  * sommer chuckles
[19:19] <kirkland> Daviey: yep, i'm here
[19:19] <kirkland> ttx: will do
[19:20] <ttx> Any other question on specing/merging ?
[19:20] <ttx> Moving on to...
[19:20] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:20] <ttx> hggdh: o/
[19:20] <hggdh> nothing new on the eastern front
[19:20]  * hggdh still recovering
[19:21] <ttx> hggdh: are you going to be assigned the new UEC testing spec ?
[19:21] <ttx> (or expecting to be assigned)
[19:21] <hggdh> ttx: I would expect so, and was considering drafting it (with help from mathiaz and smoser)
[19:21] <ttx> hggdh: ok, makes sense
[19:22] <ttx> I don't have any other questions... Team ?
[19:22] <zul> nope
[19:22] <Daviey> not here
[19:22] <hggdh> I have one
[19:22] <hggdh> may I start looking at NTP bugs?
[19:22] <ttx> hggdh: shoot
[19:22] <zul> hggdh: im for it
[19:22] <ttx> hggdh: you may start looking at any bug :)
[19:23] <hggdh> heh. I meant I will specialise on them, if all agree
[19:23] <hggdh> and slowly take over the world
[19:23] <zul> im all for taking over the world
[19:23] <ttx> hggdh: no problem. You need to start working on package bugfixes anyway, to get exposure
[19:23] <hggdh> ttx: ack
[19:23] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:23] <jjohansen> hey
[19:23] <ttx> hggdh: thanks
[19:23] <ttx> jjohansen: o/
[19:24] <jjohansen> so nothing really new on the kernel front
[19:24] <ttx> I would have been surpised if we had :)
[19:24] <ttx> I don't have questions or bugs for you yet :)
[19:25] <mathiaz> I have one - but not really related to -server hw
[19:25] <jjohansen> well smoser does, but I haven't made any progress on it since yesterday :)
[19:25] <mathiaz> I just got my new x201
[19:25] <jjohansen> mathiaz: nice
[19:25] <jjohansen> what is the issue?
[19:25] <mathiaz> and the external display isn't working
[19:25] <ttx> less nice.
[19:25] <mathiaz> there are also some issues with the graphic driver
[19:25] <Daviey> well would be a shame to let jjohansen go empty handed.. any news on the kernel issue with my "server" bug #576601?
[19:25] <mathiaz> there is a bug about it though
[19:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 576601 in linux "[MacBookPro 7,1]mcp89 sata link reset fails, no disks detected" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/576601
[19:26] <jjohansen> mathiaz: bug #
[19:26] <mathiaz> jjohansen: bug 554569
[19:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 554569 in linux "[lucid] Blank screen with KMS on Thinkpad X201 with Arrandale (i915)" [Undecided,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/554569
[19:26] <jjohansen> Daviey: sadly no progress I know of there
[19:27] <mathiaz> jjohansen: ^^ you get a blank screen when to try to install from the iso
[19:27] <mathiaz> I hope it will be fixed with 10.04.1
[19:27] <Daviey> jjohansen: thanks
[19:28] <mathiaz> well - that's all I had for the kernel team
[19:28] <jjohansen> mathiaz: hrmm okay I'll look into it and get back to you with what I find
[19:28]  * ttx moves on
[19:28] <mathiaz> jjohansen: great - thanks
[19:28] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[19:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[19:28] <ttx> including Changes discussed at UDS on SRU tracking
[19:29] <mathiaz> hm - right
[19:29] <mathiaz> so bug 575945
[19:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 575945 in chkrootkit "chkrootkit falsely flags files owned by Firefox 3 and Sun Java 6 valid packages" [Low,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/575945
[19:29] <mathiaz> is nominated for hardy
[19:29] <mathiaz> and two bugs for lucid
[19:29] <ttx> mathiaz/zul: I propose that we move to the new model starting next week
[19:29] <zul> ack
[19:29] <ttx> though explaining it first today would be nice
[19:29] <mathiaz> ttx: ok - that's going to require some work though
[19:30] <mathiaz> ttx: ie - some WI and development
[19:30] <ttx> mathiaz: for the tracking yes, but to replace the nomination review, maybe not ?
[19:30] <mathiaz> so following up on the sru-process discussion at UDS
[19:30] <ttx> I meant switching nomination review from meeting to ML
[19:30] <mathiaz> we'll move the nomination review to the ML
[19:31] <mathiaz> ttx: a script needs to be develop to generate the list of bugs to review for nominations
[19:31] <ttx> mathiaz: hmm, ok. Maybe we should wait before switching then
[19:31] <mathiaz> (which should also include the list of bugs closed)
[19:32] <ttx> mathiaz: and continue until the spec is written
[19:32] <mathiaz> ttx: that's why I think we should write a BP for the sru-process as well
[19:32] <ttx> ack
[19:32] <mathiaz> as there will be some development work required
[19:32] <ttx> ok, let's keep the current process until we have a plan for this
[19:32] <ttx> (and resources assigned to make it work)
[19:33] <mathiaz> ok
[19:33]  * ttx looks at this week's nominations
[19:33] <ttx> bug 575945 is incomplete -> decline
[19:33] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 575945 in chkrootkit "chkrootkit falsely flags files owned by Firefox 3 and Sun Java 6 valid packages" [Low,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/575945
[19:34] <mathiaz> ttx: just accepted
[19:34] <mathiaz> as mdeslaur seems to have a backport ready in a PPA
[19:34] <ttx> ah, ok
[19:34] <mathiaz> bug 574704
[19:34] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574704 in munin "munin-node after update to Lucid still in /etc/rc*.d, invoked twice" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574704
[19:34] <ttx> I'll defer to check on this one
[19:34] <ttx> to Chuck
[19:34] <zul> that one needs more testing
[19:35] <mathiaz> zul: SRU worth?
[19:35] <ttx> zul: you intend to SRU it ?
[19:35] <zul> yeah i do
[19:35]  * mathiaz accepts the bug then
[19:35] <mathiaz> bug 576910
[19:35] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 576910 in php5 "Regression: getPathInfo() doesn't return parent info" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/576910
[19:35] <zul> i havent seen that one
[19:36] <zul> yeah i can see that one being sru
[19:36] <ttx> I'd say yes
[19:36] <Daviey> would be nice if the reporter gave an example of something it broke.
[19:36] <zul> freaking php ;)
[19:36] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[19:36] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[19:36] <mathiaz> ^^ anything SRU worth on this list?
[19:37] <ttx> mathiaz: nothing from me
[19:37] <zul> most of those i seen sru's for already
[19:37] <zul> ie dovecot
[19:37] <mathiaz> alright - then that's all
[19:37] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:38] <ttx> Anything/anyone ?
[19:38] <Daviey> sommer: If you want a hand with your doc's spec, do shout out for it. :)
[19:39]  * ttx introduces SpamapS, a new team member that will care about our Web/Ops stack
[19:39] <Daviey> SpamapS: o/
[19:39] <sommer> Daviey: will do... there's some good discussion on the ubuntu-doc list at the moment
[19:39]  * ttx doesn't introduce Daviey, a new team member that everyone already knows.
[19:39] <Daviey> sommer: I'll follow it.
[19:39] <zul> boo
[19:39] <Daviey> bah
[19:39] <zul> hehe
[19:39] <mathiaz> and ccheney that joins the server team for some time as well
[19:40] <ccheney> yea! :-)
[19:40] <ttx> sommer: I was wondering if, as discussed at UDS, you'd like a weekly slot in the team meeting (like QA and kernel ?)
[19:40] <ttx> mathiaz, ccheney: indeed ! Too many new people, I get lost
[19:40] <SpamapS> Hi everyone. :)
[19:41] <SpamapS> sorry I was still reading list of bugs for SRU consideration.
[19:41] <ttx> SpamapS: you have to be faster :P
[19:41] <sommer> ttx: maybe... I'll have more time to stay up to date this cycle so I think we'll see how it goes
[19:41] <SpamapS> ttx: Thats precisely what the bus drivers were trying to teach us wasn't it?
[19:42] <Daviey> ttx: can we go home now? :)
[19:42] <SpamapS> Daviey: meaning "can I take my pants off now?"
[19:42] <smoser> i think it should be clarifid that Davey and SpamapS are new members to the Canonical Server Team.
[19:42] <smoser> Daviey is by no means new to the Ubuntu Server teeam
[19:42] <Daviey> SpamapS: you need to check your US to UK translations. :)
[19:43] <ttx> Daviey: ok, ok
[19:43] <SpamapS> Daviey: I'm using Benny Hill's US<->UK dictionary.. is that not a good one?
[19:43] <ttx> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:43] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:43] <ccheney> smoser: Also, I am a member of the Canonical Desktop Team on loan to Canonical Server Team for this release cycle.
[19:43] <ttx> Next week, same time, same place
[19:43] <Daviey> :(
[19:43] <SpamapS> RoAkSoAx: do you want to chat about load balancing now or later?
[19:43] <ttx> Daviey: you can go to your dinner now :)
[19:43]  * sommer +1
[19:44] <hggdh> heh. For me, lunch
[19:44] <Daviey> \o/
[19:44] <RoAkSoAx> SpamapS: as you prefer
[19:45] <ttx> #endmeeting
[19:45] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:45.

</pre>
