{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued x 2)
* Oneiric Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

** [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued x 2)
** [ACTION] All: review new triage process at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

===== Oneiric Development =====
* Overall progress is on track for oneiric
* server-o-boot-experience lagging but should pick up soon
* server-o-trusted-cloud will have to be dropped
===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
* SpamapS (Clint Byrum) will be speaking at OSCON July 28
   http://www.oscon.com/oscon2011/public/schedule/detail/18367
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
* 10.04.3 is scheduled to be released soon, any last minute testing is appreciated.
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
* Xen has several issues, which smb is working on with Citrix.
===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander) =====
* PXE'able images are available for OMAP3/4, which should clear the way for Ensemble to deploy onto ARM using Orchestra.
* A lot of effort is going on to "pipeclean" the ARM team's mechanisms for Alpha 3.
===== New Triage Processes =====
* Ursinha has completed initial work on a report to help streamline triaging for server related bugs.
** All triagers should set importance as soon as they see a bug, to help prioritize the triage process itself.
** New triage process is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, July 26 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:03] <SpamapS> #startmeeting
[16:03] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:03. The chair is SpamapS.
[16:03] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:03] <SpamapS> indeed it is
[16:03] <SpamapS> Welcome!
[16:03] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <SpamapS> sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued)
[16:04] <SpamapS> neither are here, so we will defer
[16:04] <SpamapS> [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued x 2)
[16:04] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued x 2)
[16:04] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Oneiric Development
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Oneiric Development
[16:04] <SpamapS> git 'r dun
[16:05] <Daviey> o/
[16:05] <Daviey> Full cycle tracking: - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-server-overview.html
[16:05] <Daviey> We seem to be pretty much on target, with:
[16:05] <Daviey> server-boot-experience - slightly flagging.  However, this is expected to be brought up to state this week.
[16:05] <Daviey> server-o-jenkins - is making good progress but limited by Ubuntu AA review / Debian sponsoring, as i understand it.
[16:05] <Daviey> server-o-postfix-enhancements - Seems to be unstarted, this should probably make progress soon - or consider dropping (ScottK?).
[16:05] <Daviey> server-o-trusted-cloud - Is this the same status? (hallyn?)
[16:05] <Daviey> Bugs currently being tracked for Oneiric Release: - http://people.ubuntu.com/~davewalker/release-bugs.html
[16:05] <Daviey> (For the TL;DR'ers, we are doing OK.  However, please try to keep the bug status of those as updated as possible).
[16:06] <Daviey> If there is a bug you are aware of, or currently working on that isn't on that list - please can you raise it here, or with me afterwards.  Thanks.
[16:06] <Daviey> Sync's/Merges: - http://people.ubuntu.com/~davewalker/server-sid-new.html (We are doing ok!)
[16:06] <serue_> Daviey: trusted cloud shoudl be dropped
[16:06] <Daviey> Ursula will be commenting on incomming bug process in AoB i believe.
[16:06] <Daviey> Thanks!
[16:06] <Daviey> EOM.
[16:06] <Ursinha> yes sir
[16:06] <Daviey> serue_: thanks.
[16:07] <SpamapS> Alright, shall we then?
[16:07] <Daviey> pls
[16:07] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:07] <SpamapS> o/
[16:08] <SpamapS> I'll be speaking at OSCON 2011 http://www.oscon.com/oscon2011/public/schedule/detail/18367
[16:08] <SpamapS> July 28
[16:08] <SpamapS> in Portland
[16:08] <SpamapS> Any others?
[16:09] <SpamapS> Alright then
[16:09] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:09] <SpamapS> hggdh: you're up
[16:10] <hggdh> k
[16:10] <hggdh> we are releasing 10.04.3 this week; help on the testing is welcomed
[16:11] <hggdh> also, a new milestone on Oneiric is approaching...
[16:11] <hggdh> apart from that, life is good
[16:11] <hggdh> ..
[16:12]  * SpamapS is installing a 10.04.3 RAID1 vm right now.. :)
[16:12]  * smb is reminded to go for two more installs ...
[16:12] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:12] <smb> hi there
[16:13] <smb> So there seems to be acceptance to take back the changes in xen xvd naming
[16:13] <smb> Though it seems to target 3.1
[16:13] <smb> Which means I will have to pull back that as soon as I think there are no other objections
[16:14] <smb> Apart from that I am trying to get xen hvm running in oneiric. Currently being in contact with citrix on that
[16:14] <smb> But zul probably has some other info too
[16:14] <smb> ..
[16:15] <SpamapS> zul is out this week.. do we need any actions for follow up next week?
[16:16] <smb> No, either I'll contact him next week or I get something from Stefano
[16:16] <SpamapS> ok
[16:16] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[16:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[16:17] <SpamapS> NCommander: ^
[16:17] <NCommander> Hey all
[16:17] <NCommander> ARM Server is currently working towards our first image bringup, with the work on preinstall pool being completed and in the process of deployment
[16:18] <NCommander> in addition, PXE'able images are now available for OMAP3/4, which also works to remove a blocker for ensemble deployment on ARM
[16:18] <SpamapS> NCommander: ogra_ had proposed an optional upstart job that would add a serial console.. is that still needed?
[16:18] <NCommander> As we close in on A3, a lot of effort is going into heavily QAing stuff on ARM, and in general, simply pipecleaning all our mechanisms
[16:18] <NCommander> SpamapS: I think it got implemented post-Dublin (ogra is on vacation so I can't immediatley confirm)
[16:19] <SpamapS> NCommander: ok just checking.
[16:19] <SpamapS> Anything else?
[16:19] <NCommander> Nope, that's it
[16:20] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:21] <SpamapS> speak now or forever hold your peace. :)
[16:21] <m_3> term
[16:22] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:22] <SpamapS> Ursinha: nice job on the report!
[16:23] <SpamapS> Ursinha: I love the ubuntu-server-bot idea. :)
[16:23] <Ursinha> cool!
[16:23] <Ursinha> so, we're working on changing the bug triage process and add speed to it
[16:23] <Daviey> \o/
[16:24] <Ursinha> the main proposed change is, in a first moment, to set the importance of the bug, even if we don't have a status to set
[16:24] <Ursinha> this will help us prioritizing what to investigate next.
[16:24] <Ursinha> the report SpamapS mentioned is: http://people.canonical.com/~ursula/triage-report.html
[16:25] <Ursinha> we hope to be able to find and kill duplicates easily, as well
[16:25] <Ursinha> clean the mess so we can be awesome
[16:26] <Ursinha> The changes in the process are described in: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
[16:27] <SpamapS> [ACTION] All: review new triage process at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
[16:27] <MootBot> ACTION received:  All: review new triage process at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
[16:27] <utlemming> Ursinha: how often will the report be updated?
[16:27] <Daviey> Great Stuff!  Thanks Ursinha
[16:27] <Ursinha> stats information to be added in that report soon! we'll be able to tell how many bugs are we triaging daily and weekly, and how new bugs are being handled
[16:27] <Ursinha> utlemming: every ten minutes
[16:28] <utlemming> very cool
[16:28] <Ursinha> enjoy! :)
[16:28] <Ursinha> ..
[16:29] <SpamapS> Alright, anything else?
[16:29] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[16:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:30] <SpamapS> Tuesday 2011-07-26 at 1600 UTC here in #ubuntu-meeting
[16:30] <SpamapS> thanks everyone!
[16:30] <SpamapS> #endmeeting
</pre>
