{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred)
** Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug.
** smb to look into kernel fs modules config for bug 732046
* Natty Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday, March 22 2011 16:00 UTC

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred)
* Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug.
* SpamapS to put his version of ubuntuserver-minutes in directions for writing minutes

===== Natty Development =====

* Nothing much to report here. The Work Items Tracker for beta1 seems to suggest we are a bit behind and need to postpone some items.
** http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.h

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

* Texas Linux Fest, April 2nd, kirkland and RoAkSoAx will be presenting 
* MySQL Users Conference, April 13,14 - SpamapS presenting.
* Noted that UDS-O is coming soon. Sponsorship nominations due March 29

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

* hggdh and Daviey are working on a problem with Eucalyptus and isc-dhcpd v4, no word yet on the final resolution
* SpamapS and jhunt will be proposing jenkins jobs to test boot/shutdown in a UDS-O session

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====

* smb wondered how disappointed users would be if an SRU to the lucid kernel disabled NET_NS. hallyn believes that this is a popular component of LXC, even if it is somewhat buggy in lucid. SpamapS agrees that it would be a very unpopular move.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====

* It would appear that sommer is no longer able to spend time working on the Ubuntu Server Guide or attend these meetings, and so we may need to seek more help with maintaining the server guide.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community =====

* kim0 noted that the virtual event, UbuntuCloudDays is happening March 23/24, and several server team members are presenting (soren, Daviey, SpamapS)

===== Open Discussion =====

* hally had brought up that the duplication required of the meeting chair to publish the meeting minutes was somewhat annoying. SpamapS pointed out his branch of Mathias Gug's old ubuntuserver-meeting tool sends to multiple addresses at once, and allows the writer to create just one copy of the minutes.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

* Tuesday, March 29 2011 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <SpamapS> #startmeeting
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:01. The chair is SpamapS.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <hallyn> o/
[16:01] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <SpamapS> Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred)
[16:02] <Daviey> dammit... deferred.
[16:02] <SpamapS> alright
[16:02] <SpamapS> [ACTION] Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred)
[16:02] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred)
[16:02] <Daviey> thanks.
[16:02] <SpamapS> Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug.
[16:02] <Daviey> That is making progress, but not as good as we had hoped
[16:03] <Daviey> Have been in contact with upstream, cjwatson and security team and Debian Maintainer.
[16:03] <Daviey> (of isc-dhcp)
[16:03] <soren> Which bug is this?
[16:03] <Daviey> It's likely it needs a patch to resolve a potential regression
[16:03] <SpamapS> yes bug number would be helpful
[16:03] <Daviey> soren, one mo
[16:03] <soren> ta
[16:04] <Daviey> bug #717166
[16:04] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 717166 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Natty) "Broken with v4 isc-dhcp-server in Natty" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/717166
[16:04] <SpamapS> Daviey: shall we carry that over to next week as well then?
[16:04] <Daviey> SpamapS, it's being followed up on... please
[16:04] <Daviey> thanks
[16:04] <SpamapS> [ACTION] Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug.
[16:04] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug.
[16:05] <SpamapS> smb to look into kernel fs modules config for bug 732046
[16:05] <Daviey> ta
[16:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 732046 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "Missing filesystem modules in -virtual package" [Undecided,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/732046
[16:05] <SpamapS> smb: want to cover that during your time later?
[16:05] <smb> I think there was the missing codepage sumbmitted for sru
[16:05] <smb> its ok now as well
[16:06] <smb> An extra modules package is rather unlikely
[16:06] <smb> But rather have a limited set (what is really needed) in the virtual build
[16:06] <smb> ..
[16:07] <SpamapS> alright that seems covered
[16:07] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[16:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty Development
[16:08] <SpamapS> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html
[16:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html
[16:08] <SpamapS> Seems we need to pick up the pace or start postponing
[16:08] <SpamapS> s/start/continue/
[16:09] <SpamapS> wow.. lively bunch.. don't everybody talk at once please.
[16:09] <raphink> \o/
[16:10]  * smb did a natty server install and feels aubergine...
[16:10] <SpamapS> So anyway, we should be hovering around 75% completion
[16:10] <SpamapS> smb: ^5
[16:10] <SpamapS> Moving on..
[16:10] <RoAkSoAx> SpamapS: sir yes sir :P
[16:11] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:11] <RoAkSoAx> TLF, April 2nd, both kirkland and I are presenting
[16:11] <SpamapS> As noted previously, I will be at the MySQL User's Conference April 13/14, speaking on April 13 about Drizzle on Natty.
[16:11] <kirkland> \o/
[16:11] <SpamapS> whats TLF?
[16:11] <kirkland> and UDS-O is comming up
[16:11] <kirkland> Texas Linux Fest, SpamapS
[16:11] <robbiew> Texas Linux Fest
[16:11] <jamespage> good luck!
[16:11] <SpamapS> Nice
[16:12] <raphink> the lone star conf
[16:12] <SpamapS> I blieve sponsorship nominations for UDS-O are due by next Tuesday right?
[16:13] <SpamapS> Is there a wiki page or google calendar with only Ubuntu Server related events?
[16:13] <zul> nope
[16:13] <SpamapS> That would be cool.. ;)
[16:13] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:14] <zul> are you starting one? :)
[16:14] <SpamapS> noep
[16:14] <SpamapS> hggdh: here? got anything?
[16:14] <hggdh> Only update from me: Daviey and I are trying the change to DHCP proposed by Euca, but no success yet
[16:15]  * hggdh was typing :-)
[16:15] <hggdh> oh
[16:15] <hggdh> and dear jamespage is bringing on Jenkins for real :-)
[16:15]  * SpamapS gets all giddy
[16:15] <hggdh> questions for me?
[16:16] <hggdh> a last point, really: I would like ideas on *what* we can test for server
[16:16] <SpamapS> hggdh: what is the average air speed velocity of an unladen Macaw?
[16:17] <hggdh> SpamapS, slightly faster than a, er, laden, one
[16:17] <hallyn> libvirt-tck and kvm-autotest :)
[16:17] <SpamapS> hggdh: boot, install a package from the seed, shutdown, boot back up.. see if the root fs was unmounted properly. ;)
[16:17]  * hggdh goes writing down
[16:17] <SpamapS> hggdh: jhunt and I are going to propose jenkins jobs that do that on every upload.
[16:18] <hggdh> SpamapS, perfect!
[16:18] <jamespage> SpamapS: sounds good
[16:18] <hggdh> hallyn, kvm-autotest... will look at it.
[16:18] <SpamapS> jamespage: I'm so glad you say that and not "thats impossible!!"
[16:18] <SpamapS> :)
[16:18] <SpamapS> ok lets move on
[16:18] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:18]  * smb thinks people aught to know he is feeling very depressed (about Xen)
[16:19] <smb> Apart from that
[16:19] <hallyn> hggdh: cool.  i have some work to do for ubuntu guests.
[16:19] <jamespage> hggdh: everythings possible with Jenkins...
[16:19] <smb> there is one thing I wanted to bring up
[16:19] <smb> bug 720095
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 720095 in linux (Ubuntu) "vsftpd causes a vmalloc space leak in Lucid" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/720095
[16:20] <smb> Looking at that basically brought up that having NET_NS (network namespaces) enabled in Lucid was not the best idea
[16:20] <smb> Because teardown is slow as hell
[16:21] <hallyn> quantify?
[16:21] <smb> IT was done to support some containerize stuff, the question to the server-team would be, how loud would be the expected complaining and shouting should we need to disable it
[16:21] <smb> hallyn, 1 namespace per second
[16:21] <hallyn> very
[16:21] <smb> while you easily can create 8 in the same time
[16:21] <hallyn> is there a cherrypickable fix?
[16:22] <smb> That is sort of the problem
[16:22] <smb> I have not really found a smallish change (yet) and not sure there is one
[16:22] <hallyn> lots of ppl using lxc on lucid, so turning off is not really an option
[16:22] <smb> There has been a long series of changes towards Maverick
[16:22] <hallyn> hm
[16:22] <smb> that batched up destruction
[16:23] <hallyn> yeah it rings a bell
[16:23] <SpamapS> is it possible to use the maverick kernel on lucid for heavy lxc usage?
[16:23] <hallyn> what do other distros do?
[16:23] <smb> The last hope is to try whether locking could be relaxed in inet_twsk_purge, but that is probably neither simple
[16:23] <hallyn> they may have a patch...
[16:23] <smb> Well, the option was marked experimental at that time
[16:23] <smb> Not sure they use it
[16:24] <hallyn> which means little :)
[16:24] <smb> SpamapS, The problem seems to be in that case that there is other problems somewhere else preventing to use the maverick kernel
[16:24] <SpamapS> also can you boot a lucid guest on LXC from maverick?
[16:24] <hallyn> well i dont mind tracking thagt down next week
[16:24] <hallyn> yes
[16:25] <smb> SpamapS, don't now (boot lucid gues on lxc)
[16:25] <smb> know
[16:25] <hallyn> but that won't ease user's minds who want stable host
[16:25] <smb> I have been making a backport for the approach of queuing /batching ns destrucktion
[16:25] <smb> from upstream
[16:26] <hallyn> who from?
[16:26] <smb> Though it seems to work, it is 6 or 7 patches
[16:26] <SpamapS> hallyn: if they start w/ natty, that will get them to the next LTS .. so its not the worst thing.
[16:26] <smb> from between 2.6.32 and 2.6.35
[16:26] <smb> Side effect is that connection speed goes down
[16:26] <SpamapS> smb: how likely is that to be SRU'able?
[16:26] <smb> I mean the rate of connects to the vsftp server
[16:26] <hallyn> cnxn spd?
[16:27] <hallyn> you mean veth data rate?
[16:27] <hallyn> or dev creation?
[16:27] <smb> SpamapS, Only in emergencies I geuss
[16:27] <hallyn> ah
[16:27] <smb> hallyn, rather dev creation I guess
[16:27] <smb> (its similar in Maverick)
[16:28] <smb> I just don't know whether that could be seen as a regression in Lucid
[16:28] <hallyn> there will be loud cries if netns is turned off in lucid
[16:28] <smb> Anyway. That was mainly what I wanted to know. :)
[16:29] <hallyn> smb: thx :)
[16:29] <SpamapS> smb: anything else?
[16:29] <smb> nope
[16:29] <smb> other questions?
[16:29] <smb> does not seem to
[16:30] <smb> so I am done
[16:30] <SpamapS> smb: thx!
[16:30] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:30] <SpamapS> So .. sommer has I think officially disappeared. Should we approach the ubuntu doc team about our need for a server guide maintainer?
[16:31] <SpamapS> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs?field.searchtext=server&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=
[16:32] <SpamapS> haha whoops
[16:32] <SpamapS> anyway, server guide bugs are mounting. :-P
[16:32] <hallyn> sure?
[16:32] <SpamapS> Hah ok glad we have consensus
[16:33] <jamespage> sounds like we need to
[16:33] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:33] <kim0> Howdy folks .. Just a reminder that Ubuntu Cloud Days is tomorrow 4pm UTC .. Please spread/tweet/dent ...etc
[16:33] <kim0> Updates to the schedule include an OpenStack session, thanks soren
[16:33] <kim0> A Eucalyptus session thanks obino, and Daviey has made up his mind and doing puppet :) Thanks Daviey
[16:33] <kim0> That's basically all for me
[16:33]  * SpamapS will be doing a demo of Ensemble as well
[16:33]  * Daviey screams.
[16:34] <kim0> Rock n Roll @SpamapS
[16:34] <hallyn> Daviey: sshhhh
[16:34] <SpamapS> kim0: dekujume moc! (thank you very much)
[16:34] <kim0> :)
[16:34] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:34] <SpamapS> hallyn: go!
[16:35] <hallyn> ?
[16:35] <SpamapS> [hallyn] Reduce meeting notes delivery duplication? (blog post only, perhaps?)
[16:35] <hallyn> oh, yes.
[16:35] <hallyn> what SpamapS said :)
[16:36] <SpamapS> hallyn: do you know about the unbuntuserver-minutes code?
[16:36] <hallyn> can we agt least drop ubuntu-devel?
[16:36] <kim0> SpamapS: It's a language google translate doesn't seem to know about .. what's that
[16:36] <hallyn> i tried it once
[16:36] <SpamapS> hallyn: I have a fixed version that works a little better  lp:~clint-fewbar/+junk/ubuntuserver-minutes/
[16:36] <hallyn> and it avoids the need to reformat?
[16:36] <SpamapS> hallyn: allows to send to multiple email addresses at once.
[16:37] <SpamapS> yes it renders the page from the wiki
[16:37] <SpamapS> into the email and blog post
[16:37] <hallyn> SpamapS: can you put a link in mtg notes?
[16:37] <hallyn> i'll try it next time
[16:37] <hallyn> sounds awesome.
[16:38] <SpamapS> [ACTION] SpamapS to put his version of ubuntuserver-minutes in directions for writing minutes
[16:38] <MootBot> ACTION received:  SpamapS to put his version of ubuntuserver-minutes in directions for writing minutes
[16:38] <SpamapS> Anything else?
[16:38] <hallyn> thx!
[16:39] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[16:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:39] <SpamapS> Tuesday, March 29 2011 16:00 UTC
[16:39] <SpamapS> Be there or be square (I'll be square.. on holiday)
[16:39] <SpamapS> #endmeeting
</pre>
