{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=07&day=08&year=2013&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jul 8th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold

=== Not present ===
* chrisccoulson

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Christian Kuersteiner (ckuerste) provided debdiffs to lucid, precise, to fix libopenid-ruby (LP: #1190491). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure.
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
** last week did various !AppArmor work in support of click packages, application isolation and the SDK. Some more to do there. Uploading patches to !AppArmor today (two uploads for saucy for now-- one with and without apache 2.4 patches
** pending updates
** patch piloting
** mdeslaur
** weekly role:  community
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
*** !AppArmor
*** SDK/click !AppArmor support
*** review jdstrand's changes
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** DBus regression tests
*** DBus syntax
*** couple ecryptfs tasks
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** DBus syntax
*** work items
*** monthly meeting
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** aa-easyprof changes
*** 2.8.2 release
*** MIR audit
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-07-08-16.31.html
