{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

03:00 Kinnison     is it meeting time?
03:00 JaneW        ok thanks
03:00 mdz          yes, it is meeting time
03:00 JaneW        Kinnison: yes, hold onto your hat
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:00 mdz          from the top
03:00 mdz          ajmitch isn't here
03:00 mdz          so BenC is first
03:00 JaneW        oh I have his hang on
03:01 JaneW        ajmitch: Due to working away from home at the moment, the SELinux work
                   is progressing
03:01 JaneW        slowly & is unlikely to be ready by feature freeze. Policy packaging
                   is being
03:01 JaneW        done with Debian people now, and a patch to remove unneeded messages
                   from
03:01 JaneW        sysvinit will be forthcoming in the next couple of days, so that
                   selinux
03:01 JaneW        support in sysvinit can be turned on again.
                   community-server-hardware-testing: Announcement was supposed to go
03:01 BenC         out, but looks like I forgot to actually send it. Going out right
                   after the meeting. Automated scripts are updated and runs will
                   commence this evening.
                   kernel bug work: SquashFS, USB, Firewire, Visual cleanups (quiet
03:01 BenC         messages, cleanup PPC OF boot screens), ACPI, SMP issues, general bug
                   maint.
03:01 Keybuk       BenC: can I pick your brain wrt to the kernel's PCI Express
                   implementation after this meeting?
03:01 BenC         Keybuk: yeah, definitely
03:02 JaneW        sorry about that, didn't have my c&p ready... mdz can I mark SELinux
                   as deferred?
03:02 mdz          JaneW: yes, thanks
03:02 JaneW        mdz: ok done
=== raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                   BenC: sabdfl raised an idea of making a very broad call for testing;
03:03 mdz          it would be good to send him a mail regarding
                   preventing-hardware-support-regressions and ensure that the
                   instructions incorporate our plans there
03:03 BenC         ok, can do
03:04 mdz          BenC: ok, thanks
03:04 Keybuk       SELinux in general has an annoying shouty factor, lots of people shout
                   that they want it, but when you ask them for help, they vanish
03:04 mdz          dholbach?
03:04 dholbach     this week (done): GNOME 2.13.91, REVU DAY, random bugs, MOTU and a11y
                   meeting
03:04 dholbach     this week (todo): BUG DAY (please all attend - if you have specific
                   ideas add them to UbuntuBugDay), bug triage, apt-get.org reviews
03:04 dholbach     next week: more bug triage, apt-get.org reviews, help MOTUs to get
                   stuff sorted for FeatureFreeze
03:04 Keybuk       it's been disabled in sysvinit too
03:04 mdz          dholbach: your /Testing announcement made LWN, by the way
03:04 dholbach     mdz: yeah, i noticed :)
03:04 mdz          good coverage
03:05 mdz          dholbach: where and when for bug day?
=== freeflying-ibook [n=freeflyi@61.190.65.23] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:05 dholbach     and by the amount of bugs and people popping into #ubuntu-bugs i
                   daresay some have read it :)
03:05 dholbach     #ubuntu-bugs, Feb 17th
=== silbs [n=jane@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:05 seb128       tomorrow
03:05 dholbach     so it IS HUG DAY in some days of the world already :)
03:05 fabbione     dholbach: count on me tomorrow :)
03:05 mdz          dholbach: do we have developers to cover the full day?
=== dholbach high-fives fabbione
03:05 mdz          if not, now is a good time to scare up volunteers ;-)
03:05 dholbach     I'll be there.
03:05 dholbach     (minus dogwalks ;))
03:05 JaneW        lol
03:06 fabbione     dholbach: if my wife is away i will be around for long time :)
03:06 seb128       me too (but that's the same timezone)
03:06 mdz          we should have a (rough) schedule to ensure that there is always
                   someone there
03:06 sivang       fabbione: heh
=== BenC will be there
03:06 infinity     I can idle in #ubuntu-bugs during my core hours for hug day.
03:06 dholbach     if you'd just join #ubuntu-bugs and add stuff that you want to have
                   triaged to http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay that 'd be great
                   dholbach: I suggest putting together a wiki page with approximate
03:06 mdz          times when developers plan to be there, and recruiting to fill in the
                   gaps
03:06 dholbach     we have volunteers who just don't know where to start
03:07 dholbach     mdz: good idea - i'll do it after the meeting
03:07 fabbione     dholbach: point them at X :P
=== sivang is here
03:07 dholbach     fabbione: are the bugs already assigned to the team?
03:07 fabbione     yes
03:07 mdz          dholbach: the motu sync requests that you forward, are those basically
                   all that you receive?  or are you filtering some additional requests?
03:07 dholbach     fabbione: then I'll add it and think of an announcement text
03:07 fabbione     ok
03:08 dholbach     mdz: i want somebody to read through them and acknowledge, before i
                   send them to you
03:08 dholbach     mdz: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/UVFStatus keeps track
03:08 dholbach     thanks to stratus, who replaced my local uvf.txt file :)
03:09 dholbach     mdz: ah sorry, those were the UVF ones
                   dholbach: if we can get a checklist in place to ensure that the
03:09 mdz          requestors test, verify dependencies, etc., then it may be reasonable
                   to delegate universe sync approvals to motu
03:09 dholbach     mdz: we tried to set up a wiki page for the sync requests too, but i
                   guess most people send them to elmo directly still
03:09 mdz          dholbach: right, I meant UVF exceptions (most of which seem to be
                   syncs)
03:10 mdz          ok, let's chat about it a bit later perhaps
03:10 dholbach     some do, but due to the amount of time syncs take in our days, some
                   resorted to package and uploading themselves
03:10 dholbach     yeah
03:10 mdz          thanks, dholbach
03:10 mdz          doko?
03:11 JaneW        I don;t think doko is here
03:11 mdz          he was here earlier
03:11 JaneW        I have had no resonse from him...
03:11 mdz          he's still connected
03:11 mdz          please send him a message and see what's happened
03:11 mdz          meanwhile
03:11 mdz          fabbione?
03:11 fabbione     Since we are approaching Feature Freeze the report is a bit more
                   detailed:
03:11 JaneW        will do
********** server-candy: "Ship a Server Test Suite on the CD": no progress
                   other than a couple of mails. "Third party software inclusion": we
                   have a list of apps submitted by community that needs to be reviewed
03:11 fabbione     (licence) and in case packaged. "central snakeoil SSL setup": almost
                   completed. Missing one or two packages only (pending on lamont and
                   infinity). "Create an MD5 checker for the Ubuntu Installer rescue
                   mode": Still blocked on admin #723. "
                   Provide a RCS /etc out of the box" deferred to dapper+1 (too many
03:11 fabbione     issues have been raised to be done in a proper way in such short
                   time).
********** ubuntu-cluster: Usual round of redhat cluster suite updates, Ben is
                   looking at OCFS2 kernel bug fixes (if any). Gone trough the entire
                   spec with Ivan (neuralis) and made some conclusions for Dapper: SLURM
03:11 fabbione     - deferred (licence issues and no time to port it to gnutls), DRBD -
                   deferred (it's basically only x86* and it has a bunch of annoying
                   limitations to be really useful), LVS (ipvsadm and keepalived) -
                   packages cleaned up and approved f
                   or main (they are in pitti's queue and will be done by tomorrow),
03:11 fabbione     ganglia - standby (pkgs are old and missing a lot of love. we might
                   get it in before FF).
********** last week: a lot of server-candy and ubuntu-cluster work. Buggered
03:11 fabbione     Kamion to install -server kernels from server CD. EVERYBODY HUG COLIN
                   NOW!
********** next week: Attempt to cleanup ssl-cert package to be more user
03:11 fabbione     friendly (core was done before starting the transition). Start
                   cleaning -server CD. Hopefully start looking into X.
03:12 mdz          fabbione: who is doing the license review?
=== ogra hugs Kamion
03:12 infinity     fabbione: I have some pending ssl-cert changes I need to clean up and
                   commit to SVN.
03:12 fabbione     mdz: me basically...
03:12 Kamion       -server kernels stuff isn't quite done yet, there are some problems
03:12 infinity     fabbione: If it's not blocking you, I intended to do so on the weekend
                   (since I also want to upload to Debian with a mess of bugfixes)
03:13 ogra         Kamion, i just did what i was asked for ;)
03:13 fabbione     mdz: and involing mdy for permissions if required. but that part is
                   the one that scares me the less
03:13 doko         sorry, didn't look at the watch ...
                   chiefly
03:13 Kamion       https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/base-installer/+bug/31474
                   and seed changes blocked on that
03:13 fabbione     infinity: no it's not blocking me. the transition my side is done
03:13 fabbione     Kamion: we still want to hug you, OK?
03:14 pitti        fabbione: does the switch to the ssl-cert group cause any troubles?
03:14 mdz          ok, thanks fabbione
03:14 fabbione     pitti: not we did think of.
03:14 fabbione     mdz: welcome
03:14 mdz          heno: you are here?
03:15 heno         mdz: yep
                   example-content: first package version in universe. Most of the
03:15 heno         content needs upgrading though and we need a link from Nautilus or a
                   desktop icon ...
03:15 pitti        I have a pending main inclusion report, but that's pretty pathologic,
                   I assume
03:15 mdz          pitti: yes, I imagine it only needs an eyeball
03:16 pitti        yep, will check packaging and such
03:16 mdz          dholbach: is it already seeded?
=== mdz misses anastacia
03:16 dholbach     mdz: no.
03:16 Riddell      heno: I'll try and find someone to make a kubuntu-example-content
03:16 ogra         mdz, we all do ...
03:16 mdz          dholbach: please go ahead and seed it, then it can move immediately
                   once the report is complete
03:16 Riddell      that would probably be from the same source
03:16 mdz          s/report/review/
03:16 pitti        Riddell: oh, is the current package ubuntu specific?
03:16 dholbach     mdz: ok
03:16 mdz          Riddell: excellent idea
03:16 heno         Riddell: great ok, we can mention Kubuntu in the main content as well
03:16 mdz          heno: I thought we agreed to use the Places menu?
03:16 Riddell      pitti: most isn't, some parts use ubuntu logo where it would be better
                   to use a kubuntu logo etc
03:17 mdz          that's the most appealing option to me so far
03:17 pitti        I see
03:17 heno         both places menu and Nautilus have been mentioned
03:17 heno         places is probably the easiest
03:17 ogra         heno, is it easy to rebrand that content for edubuntu ?
03:17 dholbach     mdz: the problem is, that if we patch gtk/whatever, people will not be
                   able to remove that bookmark
03:17 seb128       places menu tends to already be long, you want to put extra stuff
                   here?
03:18 mdz          seb128: it's either that, or a desktop icon...
03:18 mdz          needs to be visible
03:18 seb128       desktop icon is easy to get ride of
03:18 JaneW        I don't think it will be found in places...
03:18 seb128       you have no way to drop a places menu item
03:18 mdz          yes, but ugly on everyone's desktop
03:18 Riddell      why not a link in skel?
03:18 heno         silbs suggested we focus on ubuntu for now but sprinkle in some
                   ku/edubuntu
03:18 ogra         Riddell, eek
03:18 Riddell      so it's in new user's home directory
03:18 ogra         heno, ah, k so i can "just use" it then ?
03:18 JaneW        is there a constraint to adding it at the bottom of the Applications
                   menu?
03:18 mdz          dholbach: let's have a mailing list discussion about where to put it;
                   no time for it now
03:18 Kamion       /etc/skel links need to be considered very very carefully
03:18 heno         there are already some wallpapers from each of those
03:19 ogra         cool
03:19 dholbach     mdz: ok
03:19 mdz          thanks heno
03:19 mdz          infinity?
03:19 heno         ogra: I think so yes
=== sivang hopes he hasn't been pinged and did not respond
03:19 infinity     last week:
03:19 infinity     reducing-duplication: thunderbird and enigmail updates to kick mozilla
                   out of main (yay!)
                   misc: initramfs hacking, digging around in PHP CVS for security fixes
                   (should release tomorrow when I wake up, now that I hear it doesn't
03:19 infinity     require handholding), lots and lots of digging through failed build
                   logs and babysitting the soyuz buildds (bugs filed, celso and kiko
                   responding, work progressing there)
03:19 JaneW        sivang: alphabetical...
03:19 infinity     next week:
03:19 infinity     splash-down: need to look into some usplash/bogl misfeatures blocking
                   changes required to make splash-down work sanely
03:19 sivang       JaneW: ah
03:19 infinity     misc: deal with babysitting buildds more, and catalog
                   anything/everything I want to get in and done before FeatureFreeze.
03:20 mdz          infinity: I'm interested in soyuz progress; if you could mail me a
                   list of bugs to look at, I'd appreciate that
03:20 infinity     mdz: Can I TODO it and get you in the loop in the morning when I have
                   my head on straight? (It's 1:20am here)
03:21 mdz          infinity: of course (and it's 6:20 here ;-) )
03:21 infinity     Lucky you. ;)
03:21 mdz          infinity: so when anastacia is resurrected, mozilla should be able to
                   move to universe now?
03:21 infinity     That's the theory.
03:21 infinity     Hard to tell without anastacia to confirm, but it should be good to
                   go.
03:21 iwj          Yay.
03:22 Kamion       you may be able to tell from germinate output
03:22 mdz          infinity: should be possible to confirm with germinate
03:22 Kamion       snap
03:22 infinity     Point. :)
03:22 mdz          thanks infinity
03:22 mdz          iwj?
                   AutomatedTesting: Not much change since last report.  Had discussion
03:22 iwj          with Kinnison about integration into the build systems; awaiting
                   implementation from me and then work on the build systems.  When do we
                   call the goal `complete' ?
03:22 iwj          AutomatedTesting: No progress on piuparts (etc.) integration and
                   additional per-package tests; not blocked.
                   Firefox: some broken packages last week (sorry).  Fallout from the
03:22 iwj          mozilla/nspr/nss transition seems to be reducing.  Bug situation is
                   dire - I'm drowning in unsearchable unfindable low-quality reports.
03:22 iwj          DeveloperDocumentation: Editing work in progress.
                   DefaultApplicationsFirefox: Have found (I think) where to bypass the
                   `You have chosen to open ...' dialogue.  Turning this off (so that it
03:22 iwj          just takes the default) will make things work better most of the time
                   but will expose broken MIME database entries by making working around
                   them harder.  I plan to do this this week.
03:22 iwj          DefaultApplicationsFirefox: .desktop file security issue needs
                   investigating and probably fixing.
                   DefaultApplicationsFirefox: After these two things I think I will call
03:22 iwj          the goal done (even though there are still many deviations from
                   correct behaviour particularly if the server sends wrong MIME
                   information, which upstream know about).
03:22 iwj          Bugs backlog: awful.
03:22 iwj          Email backlog: none.
03:22 mdz          iwj: thanks for the automated-testing transcript
03:23 iwj          NP
03:23 Kamion       germinate output still suggests mozilla-browser's needed for some
                   things, but I'm not sure that's real; would need investigation
03:23 mdz          iwj: from here it will need a higher-level interface than what I saw
                   there; we want to be able to have it act on a .deb or set of .debs
03:23 iwj          I was wondering if I might patch dbuild or something to run it.
03:23 mdz          your demo showed the package installation being handled separately,
                   e.g.
03:23 iwj          Yes.
03:23 mdz          we want to be able to say "test this .deb" and have it do its thing
03:23 pitti        Kamion: mozilla-psm maybe? that's the only rdep I can think of
03:24 Kamion       pitti: no, enigmail apparently
03:24 iwj          This is something that it has to do for the build-time testing.
03:24 Kamion       pitti: -> #ubuntu-devel
03:24 mdz          yes
03:24 iwj          So yes, it's next on the list.
03:24 mdz          I have no particularly strong feeling on whether it's responsible for
                   the chroot, or relies on the user creating that ahead of time
03:24 mdz          iwj: we can call it complete when it's running automatically and
                   periodically over main
03:25 iwj          There's at the moment about two use cases: the LP build systems, and
                   individual maintainers.
03:25 mdz          and failures are reported somehow
03:25 iwj          The current plan is to make it run as part of every build.
03:25 sivang       mdz: wouldn't we need to have all main packages "enabled" with it
                   before?
03:25 mdz          iwj: running as part of the build is nice, but not a complete solution
03:25 mdz          we'd like for it to detect indirect failures caused by changes in
                   other packages as well
03:26 iwj          That's true.
03:26 iwj          I didn't discuss that with Kinnison.  I'll do so.
03:26 Kinnison     iwj: tonight?
03:26 iwj          kinnison: Sure.  Shouldn't take too long.
03:26 mdz          iwj: regarding bug backlog, dholbach is looking for lists of bugs to
                   feed bug day volunteers
03:26 Kinnison     iwj: cool
03:26 mdz          they can assist in trying to reproduce bugs, looking for upstream
                   bugs, etc.
                   mdz: Excellent.  Although the ff ones are a bit dispiriting for
03:27 iwj          me.  Maybe bug volunteers prefer them; there's often not much
                   getting-to-grips-with-code and a lot of asking-for-more-info etc.
03:27 mdz          sounds like a great match then
03:27 dholbach     iwj: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay - asking for more info is
                   fine
03:27 mdz          thanks iwj
03:27 mdz          jbailey?
03:27 jbailey      * ToolchainRoadmapNg: I've begun basic testing of a glibc-2.4 snapshot
                   on ppc.  Aiming for my test build ~ March 8th.
03:27 jbailey      * Other:
                   1) Clearing out bugs and getting them assigned away at a decent
03:27 jbailey      rate.  Figured out how to unsubscribe myself from packages (done for
                   grub, and evolution-exchange now).  To whom should evolution-exchange
                   bugs go to?  (Adam, Sb, other)?
03:27 jbailey      2) I am no longer hanging out on #ubuntu-devel to reduce visibility
                   somewhat - if you need me just /msg or phone.
03:27 jbailey      3) Been moving the timezone code over and relearning how the magic all
                   works to make sure I get it right, sorry for the lag.
03:28 dholbach     jbailey: desktop-bugs is probably the best.
03:28 jbailey      dholbach: Cool, thanks.
03:28 dholbach     (although i don't very much like the idea (no way of testing, etc)) :)
03:28 mdz          jbailey: if needed, #launchpad should be able to arrange mass
                   reassigns
03:28 mdz          (if you have a huge list of bugs to touch)
03:28 mdz          eek, we're running behind
03:28 mvo          jbailey: 3) is not uploaded yet, right?
03:28 mdz          jbailey: thanks
03:29 mdz          Kamion?
03:29 jbailey      mdz: Cool, thanks.  I've been trying to check to make sure things are
                   sane.
                   dholbach: I can provide you with an exchange server to test against,
03:29 infinity     but I haven't ever used evo (and don't intend to start), so I may not
                   be the best person to care about its plugins.
03:29 jbailey      mvo: Correct, not yet uploaded.
03:29 mvo          thanks
                   ubuntu-express: Finished debconffilter rework, so the UI is reasonably
03:29 Kamion       responsive now. More Guadalinex unbranding. Helping Tollef come
                   on-line and trying to keep up with merging all his changes. :-)
                   ue-gnome-ui: Split out install progress to a separate window per mpt's
03:29 Kamion       design. Screenshots removed. Added a link to the desktop (still needs
                   icon love).
                   ue-partitioning-tool: Automatic partitioning works now. Much better
03:29 Kamion       handling of gparted in manual partitioning mode, although still some
                   bugs. Disk selector hidden for now because it still sucks.
03:29 Kamion       ubuntu-express-base-system: Tollef's working on keymap configuration.
                   misc: base-installer fixes to make it work better when you're
03:29 Kamion       installing without restricted (this was a deferred Hoary goal!).
                   Published CD build logs where everyone can read them. Basic support
                   for -server ke
03:29 jbailey      dholbach, infinity: Let's talk about it and get an exchange server
                   setup at the DC - we'll need this for support testing anyway.
03:29 dholbach     infinity: Ok, thanks.
03:29 Kamion       rnels in base-installer, but it's not quite all there yet.
                   next-week: Flight CD 4 today or tomorrow I hope; starting testing now.
03:29 Kamion       Language configuration in Espresso; "ready to install" summary page.
                   Banging on through https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuExpress/ToDo as fast
                   as possible.
03:29 Kamion       sorry for line breakage there
                   also, soyuz ftpmaster training, and filing bugs (most of which have
03:30 Kamion       been resolved very quickly, thanks Kinnison/cprov); I can do both NEW
                   and override changes now, and I think removals as well
03:30 mdz          Kamion: where are the CD build logs?  are they linked from
                   DeveloperResources?
03:30 ogra         yup
03:30 Kamion       mdz: http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/cd-build-logs/, and yes,
                   there's a link there
03:30 mdz          Kamion: the todo list seems to be dominated by UI tasks
03:31 mdz          Kamion: is that an accurate reflection of status?
03:31 Kamion       well, if you count the several missing features at the top as UI
                   tasks, yes
03:31 Kamion       (which they sort of are)
03:31 Kamion       I think the missing features will dominate development for the next
                   week or two, then we can move into polishing
03:31 mdz          Kamion: if we need to recruit a pygtk guru to help blow through some
                   of the UI work, that can be arranged
=== Kamion has been teaching himself pygtk at a considerable rate
03:32 Kamion       but yes, in a couple of weeks some attention from a guru might help
03:32 mdz          Kamion: clearly. :-)  but that may not be the fastest way to get it
                   done
03:32 mdz          ok
03:32 ogra         just get lamesh to look at it :)
03:32 mdz          espresso will appear on the desktop for flight 4?
03:32 ogra         *jamesh
03:32 Kamion       assuming my change last night worked
03:32 mdz          cool
03:33 mdz          thanks Kamion
03:33 mdz          Keybuk?
                   streamlined-boot: experimenting with one, two and three phases of
03:33 Keybuk       readahead runs to see which gives the best performance. going to
                   liberate an old P200 from backup DNS duty and install dapper on that,
                   should give a great chart in the ogra time ranges.
                   network-magic: ifrename bugs all fixed, and it now seems to be working
                   great and better than the breezy version (it reliably swaps network
                   cards).  need to decide what to do about "clashed"
03:33 Keybuk       interfaces.  getting pitti to do a final check of network-manager for
                   main inclusion, and will recommend it for main next week and either
                   the supported or ship seeds -- I'm not happy enough with it for
                   desktop for dapper, I'm afraid.
                   other: scott@canonical/ubuntu.com mail now gets delivered to my gmail
03:33 Keybuk       account, so that should work.  all paperwork and stuff signed for my
                   new line, just waiting for a final install date
03:33 Keybuk       next week: readahead will be top priority
=== jsgotangco [n=jsg@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:33 JaneW        Keybuk: streamlined-boot is still in briandump... is it going to
                   happen or be deferred?
03:33 mdz          Keybuk: where do bug reports about the ifrename stuff end up?  are you
                   monitoring ubuntu-bugs or otherwise ensuring that you see them?
03:34 Keybuk       JaneW: it's happened I just never wrote it down (bad keybuk)
03:34 Keybuk       you could probably set it at implemented <g>
03:34 JaneW        Keybuk: you going to finish spec or just implement?
03:34 Keybuk       mdz: udev, ifrename, etc.  I'm watching all of them
03:34 JaneW        oh is it already implemented?
03:34 Keybuk       JaneW: I have been meaning to write down everything in the spec, yes
03:34 JaneW        I'll update it then
03:34 mdz          Keybuk: it seems like the sort of thing where the user wouldn't know
                   which package to file under
03:34 Keybuk       and have the spec as a "readme" for future reference
03:34 ogra         Keybuk, note that i have to trade between fast boot and low memory ...
                   readahead might take to much mem
03:34 mdz          s/wouldn't/& necessarily/
03:34 Keybuk       mdz: indeed, ubuntu-bugs has simply too much traffic to grep through
                   the web interface sadly
03:35 Keybuk       and tbh, too much to grep through a mail client now
03:35 Keybuk       ogra: you've had it since hoary, so isn't that bad :)
=== freeflying-ibook [n=freeflyi@61.190.65.23] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:35 mdz          Keybuk: I don't have trouble doing it through mail
03:35 ogra         Keybuk, i'm not sure its used on thin clients currently (as long as it
                   doesnt hide an any other initscript its not used)
03:36 dholbach     Keybuk: no network-manager for dapper desktop?
03:36 Keybuk       I gave up once is was eating more than an hour of my time a day
03:36 mdz          Keybuk: you should be able to search very effectively with your mail
                   routed to gmail now ;-)
03:36 Keybuk       I'd be happy to take any advice
03:36 Keybuk       mdz: only my direct inbox mail is routed there ... no mailing list
                   subscriptions
03:36 Keybuk       dholbach: indeed
=== FLeiXiuS [n=fleixius@c-69-143-75-17.hsd1.md.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:36 mdz          Keybuk: can you send a mail to -devel and me with a list of issues and
                   concerns?
03:36 Keybuk       mdz: with which?
03:36 mdz          Keybuk: n-m
03:36 Keybuk       sure thing
03:36 mdz          Keybuk: so that we can talk it out, and when we've made a decision, we
                   have someplace to point to explain it
03:36 mdz          great, thanks
03:37 mdz          JaneW: updates from lathiat/krstic?
                   basically it's turned out to a huge pile of intertangled deps, and
03:37 Keybuk       very hard work (much harder than I thought at first glance) to mutate
                   it to our needs
03:37 Keybuk       and I'm simply not happy with it being installed by default
03:37 Keybuk       when it works, it's great
03:37 Keybuk       but when it doesn't work, it requires severely heavy know-how to get
                   your computer back to working again
03:37 Keybuk       (I'll summarise more eloquently on the list)
03:37 JaneW        mdz: no not yet I'll mail lathiat, krstic's goal is deferred
03:37 mdz          right
03:37 mdz          Mithrandir?
03:37 Mithrandir   livecd-performance: no further improvements, I still haven't had the
                   time to test lzma, I don't know what Scott has done wrt readahead
03:38 Mithrandir   simplified-live-cd: implemented; still missing stackable file systems
                   (wanted for espresso)
                   misc: getting up to speed on espresso, has refactored some of the
                   UI.  This has taken a fair bit of effort, so I'm behind on
03:38 Mithrandir   email.  Working on the keyboard selection for espresso.  fixed
                   ddcprobe to work on amd64, so we now have the correct resolution on
                   the live cd
03:38 Mithrandir   blocked on: access to popcon.ubuntu.com, but I have plenty to do, so
                   it's not urgent
03:38 Mithrandir   spec list is getting shorter and shorter, I guess that's a good thing.
                   :-)
03:38 infinity     \o/ to ddcprobe on amd64.
03:38 ogra         yay
=== pitti will try after the meeting
03:38 ogra         (even it still helps with my widescreen display)
03:38 Mithrandir   today's live has the new and shiny ddcprobe.
03:38 ogra         s/helps/doesnt help/
03:39 Mithrandir   ogra: fix your video bios. :-P
03:39 mdz          Mithrandir: we still win even if nothing else happens on
                   livecd-performance, so your help is much more valuable on espresso
03:39 ogra         :P
03:39 mdz          Mithrandir: I'm happy to call the dapper portion of livecd-performance
                   implemented whenever you're happy with it
=== mvo tried and it works nicely
03:39 Mithrandir   mdz: yes, you asked me to concentrate on espresso last week.
03:40 Mithrandir   mdz: ok, I guess we'll just take the fixes scott brings in for
                   readahead and call -performance done for dapper, then.
03:40 mdz          Mithrandir: right, I'm saying that we can clear that from your list
                   entirely and don't need updates on it
03:40 ogra         liveCd is scary fast :)
03:40 Mithrandir   yup
03:40 mdz          yes, it's looking good
03:40 ogra         already
03:40 mdz          doko: you're back?
03:41 doko         yes
03:41 Keybuk       Mithrandir: I'm basically doing readahead as we've discussed ... so
                   should be a win for livecd just as much as for install
03:41 doko         this week:
03:41 doko         - dapper-toolchain: Updated all packages in main to build with the
                   default g++ to be able demote g++-3.4 from main, gcc-4.0 updates
03:41 doko         - dapper-toolchain+1: updated packages for test rebuild
03:41 doko         - python-roadmap: python2.3 ready to be demoted from main, some python
                   packages rebuilt.
03:41 doko         - openoffice.org: update to 2.0.2rc1, builds now, investigating
                   installation failures
                   - openoffice.org-gnome: martink did some testcases for the gnome
03:41 doko         filepicker, working on fixes, gnome-desktop-integration stuff enabled
                   for the next OOo builds
03:41 doko         - other: syncs, sync requests, package updates
03:41 doko         - java-roadmap: ecj-bootstrap update to 3.1.2, other parts now driven
                   by OOo needs.
03:41 doko         next-week:
03:42 doko         - uploadable openoffice.org packages
=== mgalvin [n=mgalvin@ubuntu/member/mgalvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:42 jsgotangco   /j #uia
03:42 jsgotangco   hey mgalvin
                   administrative note: it's important that you be present for the entire
03:42 mdz          meeting, not only when it's your turn to present.  one of the reasons
                   that we do things this way is to give everyone a chance to see what
                   their peers are doing, and whether they need help
03:42 Keybuk       jsgotangco: bless you
03:42 Mithrandir   Keybuk: where do you have the list of stuff to read ahead?
03:42 Keybuk       Mithrandir: let's discuss outside of here after the meeting
03:42 Mithrandir   Keybuk: sure
03:42 mgalvin      g'mornin jsgotangco, all
03:43 infinity     doko: Thanks for all the python2.3 demotion uploads this week, BTW.  I
                   was very happy to see thos. :)
03:43 infinity     s/thos/those/
03:43 pitti        ++
03:43 mdz          doko: what work remains on toolchain-roadmap and python-roadmap?
03:44 doko         toolchain: final updates to 3.4.6 and 4.0.3 when releaed, not much
                   work
03:45 pitti        doko: any rebuilds with the new compiler?
03:45 doko         python: no python-central/python-support in dapper, we're not going to
                   make a version switch for dapper, so not actuall needed.
03:45 mdz          doko: so python-roadmap is essentially complete?
03:45 doko         pitti: AFAIU, we'll do a complete test build of dapper anyway at some
                   point
03:45 infinity     Several.
03:45 infinity     Over and over.
03:45 mdz          yes
03:45 doko         mdz: yes
03:46 mdz          ok, great
03:46 pitti        doko: right, but I mean actually used rebuilt debs (in case they fixed
                   some crashes in compiled code, or so)
03:46 mdz          thanks doko
03:46 dholbach     infinity: great, the MOTUs will be delighted.
03:46 mdz          Kinnison?
03:46 doko         needs debian work only
03:46 dholbach     infinity: (they asked about it already)
03:46 Kinnison     Firstly, I apologise about this not being in quite the same format as
                   everyone elses. As I get up to speed I'll be better, honest.
                   == power-management == * Added support to the acpid package for
03:46 Kinnison     noticing the gnome and kde policy managers for power management * Got
                   a lot more information on a number of g-p-m bugs * Fixed several of
                   them, including the sabdfl lock-on-lid-close bug
********** Touched acpi-support to add some tosiba buttons and to add support
03:46 Kinnison     for the lock key as a KEY_COFFEE event. Filed a bug against the kernel
                   to get thist working * Started dialogue with upstream about the
                   lid-close stuff.
03:46 Kinnison     == general ==
03:46 Kinnison     * Helped pitti with several security uploads, finally automated my
                   part of it for him.
03:46 Kinnison     * Lots and lots of bug work with the users.
03:46 Kinnison     * Started to feel more confident in getting on with things
03:46 Kinnison     == going forward ==
03:46 Kinnison     * I need to build a more comprehensive test set for soyuz testing.
03:46 Kinnison     * Built some packages for cprov for testing soyuz
=== ranf [n=ranf_@dslb-084-058-150-211.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:46 Kinnison     * More power-management stuff over the coming week
********** I imagine I'll start to find more, or people will say "oh you could
03:46 Kinnison     do 'foo' to help me out" where 'foo' doesn't need too much
                   back-context for me to be useful.
03:46 Kinnison     [end]
03:46 JaneW        Kinnison: format is perfect for me, thanks
03:47 mdz          Kinnison: a shift during bug day would be welcome
03:47 mdz          and we'll talk in more detail tomorrow or early next week hopefully
03:48 mdz          right now, need to try to stay within our time limit
03:48 mdz          thanks Kinnison
03:48 Kinnison     mdz: I'll do my best
03:48 mdz          mvo?
=== jsgotangco [n=jsg@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:48 mvo          Did:
03:48 mvo          - bug hunting in update-notifier, added workaround for the "it eats my
                   cpu problem" - this needs more work
03:48 mvo          - release-upgrades:
03:48 mvo            * automatic dist-upgrade testing infrastructure ready, waits for a
                   home :)
03:48 mvo            * bugfixes
*********** use --force-overwrite per default now (we won't catch overwrite
03:48 mvo          errors from users anymore because dpkg doesn't report them with this
                   setting)
03:48 mvo          - third-party-packages:
03:48 mvo            * uses gettext for the desktop files
03:48 mvo            * menu-data updated and split out into own pkg
03:48 mvo            * "All" category added
03:48 mvo            * search improvments
03:48 mvo          - added splash for grub
03:48 mvo          - default-apt-sources:
03:48 mvo            * worked on the per-queue-failure code, decided to do something
                   simpler
03:48 mvo          - misc: various stuff in language-selector, synaptic, update-manager,
                   gksu, python-xdg, apt, python-apt
03:48 mvo          will do:
03:48 mvo          - take a day off tomorrow to move to a new flat
03:48 mvo          - automatic dist-upgrade testing finish
03:48 mvo          - try to cleanly fix the update-notifier eats my cpu problem
03:48 mvo          - gnome-app-install add the last missing bits
03:48 mvo          - default-apt-sources: turn "can't connect" errors into warnings, look
                   what we can do to reauthenticate the lists on network failures
03:49 JaneW        mvo: you going to progress the default-apt-sources spec?
03:49 doko         mdz: should be more specific about python-roadmap, that we still
                   strive for python-2.4.3 for dapper, when released
03:49 mvo          JaneW: I intend to work on it the next week
03:49 JaneW        mvo: spec is still in braindump, and very RED
03:49 JaneW        mvo: ok thanks
03:50 mdz          JaneW: it's lower priority, but should be a small amount of work and
                   would be very nice to have
03:50 mdz          happy for him to delay it until close to feature freeze if his time
                   can be better spent on the higher-priority items
03:50 mdz          thanks mvo
03:50 mdz          ogra?
03:50 ogra         * thin-client-memory-usage: started work on nbd swap, trying to find a
                   way to do automated swapfile creation on the server
03:50 ogra         * thin-client-faster-startup: initscript handling implemented, spec
                   implemented and done
03:50 ogra         * gnome-screensaver-default-image: no work done
********** general:  powerpc support on ltsp included the ppc specific bits in
                   the default dhcpd.conf (upload and merge pending, yaboot handling
03:50 ogra         missing), flight4 preparation, more ltsp merges (specifically one
                   solving a bashism in ltsp_functions), helping Kinnison on the
                   powermanager takeover.
03:50 JaneW        mdz: ok, it was listed as a medium.
********** next-week: finish nbd handling for ltsp (to set spec to
                   implemented), more flight 4 work (as soon as DSL is back), finish
                   gnome-screensaver-default-image, merge peres xauth handling in ldm
03:50 ogra         cleanly, try to switch ltsp-client to dash if time is left before
                   feature freeze (udev bashism needs a deeper look i havent taken yet
                   and sorting), jumping on the gnome-screensaver bugs, convincing ltsp
                   upstream to do flight4 tests (once its out) to get feedba
                   ck on the implemented specs ... probably looking into
03:50 ogra         ltsp-client-builder for better progressbar handling in the installer
                   if time is left...
03:50 ogra         note: i'm out of DSL since two days, no ETA for fixage yet, ISDN makes
                   it nearly impossible to test edubuntu flight4
03:52 mdz          ogra: I seem to recall that nbd had a mechanism to automatically
                   create the files based on IP or similar
03:52 mdz          can't recall the details though
03:52 mdz          ogra: if you won't be able to test personally, ensure that you find a
                   volunteer to fill in for flight4
03:52 ogra         mdz, yes, i'm looking into jammcqs implementation, i know he has a
                   mechanism...
03:52 mdz          ogra: ok, need to move on, thanks
03:52 mdz          pitti?
03:52 ogra         mdz, jsgotangco is great on the amd64 front
03:53 jsgotangco   :D
=== JaneW cheers for jsgotangco
03:53 ogra         i'll have to find others though ..
03:53 mdz          JaneW: remind me to reverse the order for the next meeting so that we
                   squeeze a different set of people ;-)
03:53 JaneW        mdz: ok
03:53 dholbach     haha
03:53 jsgotangco   amd64 compiz+xgl working great now too
03:53 pitti        status of unimplemented specs:
********** langpacks-desktopfiles: DONE: implemented langpack support for
03:53 pitti        .server files, which completes the code changes of that spec; still
                   TODO/PLAN: fix non-cdbs+gnome.mk packages manually, discuss the stuff
                   with gnome/fd.o upstream
03:53 pitti        * firewall: DONE: negotiated bounty with carstenh, approved by mdz;
                   target date: May 1st; no blocks any more
********** reducing-duplication: DONE: dropped MySQL 4.1; final changes to drop
                   mozilla (thanks infinity!), lots of Python 2.3 cleanup (thans doko!);
03:53 pitti        PLAN: gnutls 11->12 transition next week for all packages but
                   openldap; BLOCK: actual mozilla demotion, need help with openldap,
                   need proper madison and melanie-like tools somewhere
03:53 pitti        * automated-problem-reports, automatic-printer-conf: no blocks, no
                   time, deferred to dapper+1
03:53 pitti        general stuff done this week:
03:53 pitti        * lots and lots of security update work, worked with Kinnison to get
                   the process working
03:53 pitti        * unbroke CD burning
03:53 pitti        * much bug triage (still scary backlog, though), some bug fixing, main
                   inclusion reviews, CD testing
03:53 ogra         jsgotangco, not intresting for edubuntu :P
03:53 pitti        general stuff planned next week:
03:53 pitti        * upload postgresql-common ubuntu branch with SSL snakeoil cert
                   support; BLOCK: upload of fixed ssl-cert by fabbione
03:53 pitti        * coordinate Thunderbird locale unbreaking with asac (Debian
                   maintainer)
03:53 Kamion       pitti: do you have drescher access?
03:53 pitti        * even more security update backlog
03:54 pitti        Kamion: no, I don't
03:54 pitti        Kamion: I probably will in the future, when we switch security to
                   drescher
03:54 Kamion       pitti: ok, in that case use rookery, copy ~cjwatson/bin/madison-lite
                   and ~cjwatson/.madison-lite/config to your home directory
03:54 pitti        cool, thanks
03:54 mdz          not sure what we have for melanie, apart from germinate-output
03:54 Kamion       pitti: it only updates every six hours but it's a lot better than
                   nothing
03:54 Kamion       we don't yet AFAIK
03:54 pitti        yes, six hours is more than fine
03:54 Kamion       (melanie, that is)
03:54 mdz          pitti: re: bug triage, I strongly suggest getting involved with bug
                   day ;-)
03:54 Riddell      is germinate output in the same place as before?
03:55 Kamion       well, we have a removal tool, but no rdepends checking
03:55 pitti        yes, that's planned
03:55 mdz          Riddell: yes
03:55 mdz          pitti: thanks
03:55 Kamion       Riddell: yes, and I just fixed it so that it no longer looks at
                   http://jackass/ ;-)
03:55 mdz          seb128?
03:55 seb128       GNOME: update to GNOME 2.13.91, lot of bug triage
03:55 seb128       gstreamer0.10: desktop and seeds updated for gst0.10, gst0.8 can be
                   demoted to universe
                   dapper-desktop-plan: session dialog patch updated to use a fadding
03:55 seb128       effect, started investigating using a GTK theme for the gdm greater,
                   will work on the desktop switcher patch (use tooltip) today
03:55 seb128       tomorrow: bug day
03:55 seb128       .
                   next week: continue bug triage, keep fixing issues with the desktop,
03:55 seb128       update of the panel/session dialog for dapper-desktop-plan according
                   to the mail sent by Mark about that
                   seb128: did you verify gst0.8 via germinate?  we have the capability
03:56 mdz          to demote things, but it's not as easy to see without anastacia when
                   they're ready to be moved
03:56 seb128       I talked briefly with pitti about it, seems to be ok
03:56 Kamion       give germinate a minute or two to update to soyuz here
03:56 seb128       I had a look with grep-dctrl, not germinate
03:57 mdz          seb128: any change on video-playback?  is it basically done, given
                   that gst0.10 seems to work well?
03:57 seb128       yep, I would classify as done
03:58 seb128       having user testing/feedback would still be nice
03:58 mdz          ok, go ahead and update in launchpad
03:58 seb128       will do, thanks
03:58 mdz          a call for testing to -devel-announce would be OK
03:58 mdz          ask users who switched to totem-xine to switch back and try it
03:58 seb128       I'll speak with dholbach about it
03:58 dholbach     seb128: yeah
03:58 mdz          thanks seb128
03:58 mdz          Riddell?
03:59 Riddell      kubuntu-express: fair amount done, too many distractions this week to
                   get it to be ready for others to look at yet
03:59 pitti        seb128: dvd is ported?
03:59 Riddell      kubuntu-system-tools: guidance 0.6 in, still need some fixes to system
                   settings before implemented
03:59 Riddell      kubuntu-package-manager: mornfall released alpha 2, update-notifier
                   working, simplified installer progressing well
03:59 Riddell      kubuntu-dapper-roadmap: gstreamer 0.8 clean, gcc 3.4 clean (pending a
                   few builds)
03:59 Riddell      kubuntu-docs: new snapshot, fixing docbook to work with KDE
03:59 Riddell      blocking: adept simplified installer is waiting on gnome-app-install's
                   data to pass NEW, main inclusion review is moving slowly
03:59 Riddell      next week: kubuntu-express, flight 4
03:59 mdz          Riddell: any screenshots handy of the kubuntu update-notifier?
03:59 JaneW        er sivang is waiting too
03:59 Riddell      mdz: nope, can do one in 60 seconds though
03:59 mdz          Riddell: sure, curious to see what it looks like
                   pitti: not yet, but they are working on it (they argue it's not a top
04:00 seb128       priority because it can't be shipped by default anyway for patents,
                   issue etc)
04:00 mdz          Riddell: I'm sure when sabdfl returns home to his kubuntu desktop he
                   will have feedback ;-)
04:00 Riddell      just a systray icon really
04:00 mdz          Riddell: what's happening upstream with KDE within the dapper
                   timeframe?
04:00 Riddell      mdz: KDE 3.5.2 in March
04:00 Riddell      new k3b out today, very minimal bugfixes, people are testing it
04:00 mdz          Riddell: pre-beta?
04:01 Riddell      no sign of kde 4 being usable except for core hackers yet
04:01 mdz          Riddell: I mean, is 3.5.2 going to arrive before the 6.04 beta/
04:01 mdz          s,/,?/
=== mdz notices the sunrise outside
04:02 mdz          sivang: update?
                   DONE: fs info provider class, backup media devices detection, some GUI
                   bits, work on ISOBuilder CDBurner , Backup class. Researched about
04:02 sivang       DrakeBackup, which closely resembles our design, is a perl hack,
                   however, took some pointers from there. Reworked all the worker
                   classes to use generators for effective progress report throughout
                   their operations.
04:02 Riddell      mdz: let me check exact dates
                   TODO: polish/finish ISOBUilder, finish Burner and Bakcup classes.
04:02 sivang       rework the GUI according to community's feedback (split resotre and
                   backup to two different dialogs, then have a top level menu), Connect
                   the bits together.
04:02 sivang       I expect to be able to make it for dapper, with this feature
                   adjustments:
04:02 sivang       - Backup will have to be done by each user. (current dar limitaion
                   that it can only use one pathspec as source)
04:02 sivang       - Desktop notification support will considered nice to have, but if
                   time does not allow it will be deferred for next version.
04:03 mdz          sivang: is it suitable for user testing yet?
04:03 doko         ogra: what are these ISDN problems?
04:03 sivang       mdz: not yet, I'm afraid. I will announce as soon as it is.
04:03 JaneW        sivang: cool, was hoping we wouldn;t have another deferred goal :)
04:03 mdz          ok
04:03 ogra         doko, no ISDN problems ... i wouldnt be here if i had any ...
04:03 mdz          thanks sivang
04:03 mdz          and we're out of time
04:03 pitti        ogra: well, it's just awfully slow :)
04:03 ogra         doko, apart from being 64k  ... which is crap for iso syncing ;)
04:03 mdz          good meeting, everyone
04:03 Riddell      mdz: 3.5.2 oout ~March 24th, so just missing beta by a week
04:03 JaneW        Riddell: you still have some specs in brain dump, can you make a call
                   on those soon, if you haven't yet?
04:03 mdz          good luck with the rest of your day / sleep / etc.
04:04 JaneW        mdz: you too
04:04 pitti        thanks everyone
04:04 iwj          TTFN all
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
04:04 ogra         thanks mdz
04:04 dholbach     thank you mdz
04:04 seb128       thank you mdz
04:04 fabbione     cya tomorrow or later guys

</pre>
