{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This is the '''17th''' meeting of the '''Iowa Team''', starting at 20:00 CST and finishing at 21:09 CST

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT when the meeting starts to indicate who is online and paying attention.

'''Active Attendees:'''
* !AtomicSpark
* Iowan
* kristau_ubuntu

== Agenda ==
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

* Ubuntu 10.10 Release Party ``@``AtomicSpark``@

== Minutes ==
 Mailing list announcement. We can make IC happen, but DM needs some discussion. Oct 10 is the date. Another special IRC meeting is possibility. #cialug may be another source for info.

== Any Other Business ==

* 

== Guide Lines ==
The meeting moderator will ensure key points are discussed. Key points from the Agenda will be noted by <code>[TOPIC] Agenda item</code>. When ideas are put forward to be considered they should be noted by <code>[IDEA] Idea</code>. The meeting moderator will indicate the final state of each topic by <code>[ACTION] Action being taken</code>. This should signify that the topic is discussed and the meeting is moving forward. The meeting moderator will use special tags to start and end the meeting and its recording. Please see <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot| MootBot]]</nowiki> for details on specific tags.

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
* *** BEGIN LOGGING AT Thu Sep 30 20:00:00 2010

Sep 30 20:00:42 <Iowan>	It's time to start
Sep 30 20:01:02 <Iowan>	Welcome to the September edition of the Iowa Loco meeting
Sep 30 20:01:07 <Iowan>	PRESENT!
Sep 30 20:01:18 <kristau_ubuntu>	And accounted for
Sep 30 20:01:52 <Iowan>	That's all two of us at the moment.
Sep 30 20:02:12 <Iowan>	kristau_ubuntu:  How are you this evening?
Sep 30 20:02:31 <kristau_ubuntu>	Not too bad, yourself?
Sep 30 20:02:40 <Iowan>	So far, so good...
Sep 30 20:04:13 <kristau_ubuntu>	Checking out the LoCo's wiki and forum. Has been awhile for me.
Sep 30 20:05:12 <Iowan>	Look as you wish... Hopefully I can help with questions - if you have any
Sep 30 20:06:51 <kristau_ubuntu>	10.10 Release Party sounds interesting. No plans as of yet?
Sep 30 20:08:33 <Iowan>	Not yet...
Sep 30 20:08:52 <Iowan>	That's the agenda item for the evening
Sep 30 20:08:58 <AtomicSpark>	Nope. Im sure IC will get together again.
Sep 30 20:09:20 <AtomicSpark>	Also ETA 10 mins.
Sep 30 20:09:48 <AtomicSpark>	Picking up a pizza.
Sep 30 20:10:08 <Iowan>	We'll save you a spot!
Sep 30 20:10:52 <AtomicSpark>	I may not save you a slice.
Sep 30 20:11:18 <Iowan>	Full of Mexican cuisine, anyway...
Sep 30 20:12:07 <Iowan>	But - for the record... what kind ???
Sep 30 20:20:15 <Iowan>	kristau_ubuntu: While we're waiting... where do you call home?
Sep 30 20:20:29 <kristau_ubuntu>	I'm located in Des Moines, IA
Sep 30 20:21:01 <Iowan>	Have we exchanged email recently... or are you another DM'er?
Sep 30 20:21:55 <kristau_ubuntu>	I don't think so. I'm probably another one.
Sep 30 20:23:10 <Iowan>	kristau_ubuntu:  Then there are at least a couple of you interested in release party...
Sep 30 20:24:10 <kristau_ubuntu>	We need to promote it to the CIALUG group, too. That may help drum up some interest/attendees.
Sep 30 20:24:20 <AtomicSpark>	There are a few "DM'ers" out there. They're multiplying!
Sep 30 20:24:36 <kristau_ubuntu>	I can get the word out to that group when you have more details available.
Sep 30 20:27:03 <AtomicSpark>	Iowan: We need to ping the mailing list and see whos interested and where they are located, etc. Basically a repeat of last time. It's up to the ReLoCos to set up a get-together.
Sep 30 20:27:24 <AtomicSpark>	I'm up for another one in IC or CR. We could have it in the ICPL or at Kirkwood.
Sep 30 20:28:38 <Iowan>	When is the "official" window? Should we schedule another meetong - or so?
Sep 30 20:33:24 <AtomicSpark>	Its... late october.
Sep 30 20:33:46 <AtomicSpark>	I lied. Oct 10th.
Sep 30 20:34:10 <AtomicSpark>	It's a Sunday, so we'd probably do something around then and not then.
Sep 30 20:34:16 <AtomicSpark>	So the following weekend is fine with me.
Sep 30 20:37:17 <Iowan>	Scheduling another meeting for next Thursday wouldn't leave much time for action.
Sep 30 20:37:34 <kristau_ubuntu>	According to the release schedule 10.10 RC should be coming out today.
Sep 30 20:37:52 <AtomicSpark>	It is out today.
Sep 30 20:38:21 <kristau_ubuntu>	That shows you how !up to date I am.
Sep 30 20:39:12 <kristau_ubuntu>	Do they do an RC for the netbook version, or does that come only after the main release?
Sep 30 20:39:53 <AtomicSpark>	Official releases are on time. Community ones may lag behind.
Sep 30 20:40:00 <AtomicSpark>	Afaik, the netbook release is official.
Sep 30 20:42:30 <kristau_ubuntu>	Yup, looks like there is an RC for 10.10 netbook. I think I'll wait until the office release to upgrade mine, though.
Sep 30 20:43:17 <Iowan>	I usually wait for the rush to subside... or borrow it at a Jam/Release...
Sep 30 20:43:52 <AtomicSpark>	I'm sticking with LTS for my main machines.
Sep 30 20:44:13 <kristau_ubuntu>	Yeah, I'm on 10.04 LTS on this netbook, so there is that to consider as well.
Sep 30 20:44:20 <Iowan>	AtomicSpark:  I presume that means you haven't tried Meerkat yet...
Sep 30 20:45:13 <AtomicSpark>	I tried it around Alpha 3.
Sep 30 20:45:46 <Iowan>	Opinion? (I haven't d/l'd yet)
Sep 30 20:47:02 <Iowan>	Must've lost connection...
Sep 30 20:47:29 <Iowan>	kristau_ubuntu:  has 10.04 been working for you?
Sep 30 20:47:45 <Iowan>	I have desktop with it... some quirky issues.
Sep 30 20:48:04 <kristau_ubuntu>	Mostly. Every now and then, at random, Xorg crashes and it goes into "low graphics mode"
Sep 30 20:48:29 <kristau_ubuntu>	Hasn't done it in awhile, but I switched to using the gnome desktop instead of the default.
Sep 30 20:49:10 <kristau_ubuntu>	I haven't taken any time to troubleshoot, though.
Sep 30 20:49:45 <Iowan>	Same here (troubleshooting) I get flashing vertical stripes - needs reboot to reset.
Sep 30 20:50:21 <kristau_ubuntu>	Ouch, that sounds nasty. Can you still make out the desktop, or is it illegible?
Sep 30 20:51:44 <Iowan>	Just stripes - almost like a test pattern
Sep 30 20:52:19 <Iowan>	Doesn't happen often - I usually use this Hardy machine for surfing
Sep 30 20:52:41 <Iowan>	The Lucid box is for trying out problems/solutions on forum
Sep 30 20:52:58 <kristau_ubuntu>	Same here. Not often, but enough and so random as to be annoying.
Sep 30 20:54:15 <Iowan>	Laptop is Jaunty... it works - so I'm not brave enough to upgrade.
Sep 30 20:54:59 <Iowan>	Looks like AtomicSpark  is back.
Sep 30 20:57:18 <Iowan>	or...
Sep 30 20:57:30 <kristau_ubuntu>	maybe...
Sep 30 20:58:30 <Iowan>	kristau_ubuntu:  You ARE on our mailing list?
Sep 30 20:58:57 <kristau_ubuntu>	Yup.
Sep 30 20:59:45 <Iowan>	Good - I'll try to post meeting minutes (soon), and I'll try to start some Release party discussion.
Sep 30 20:59:55 <kristau_ubuntu>	Wait, maybe not. I get e-mail messages from the Wiki.
Sep 30 21:00:12 <kristau_ubuntu>	and the forums.
Sep 30 21:00:32 <kristau_ubuntu>	Too many modes!
Sep 30 21:00:41 <Iowan>	Yup!
Sep 30 21:01:28 <Iowan>	Maybe I can cross-post some email information on the sub-forum... It isn't seeing as much use as I'd expected
Sep 30 21:01:30 <kristau_ubuntu>	ubuntu-us-ia@lists.ubuntu.com Standard listserv subscribe, I assume?
Sep 30 21:02:39 <Iowan>	https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ia
Sep 30 21:02:41 <kristau_ubuntu>	Got a bounce saying it awaits approval.
Sep 30 21:03:25 <Iowan>	Either AtomicSpark  or I will get it approved before the nest posting goes out. Thanks for subscribing!
Sep 30 21:03:36 <Iowan>	next>next
Sep 30 21:03:44 <kristau_ubuntu>	There we go, I signed up.
Sep 30 21:04:12 <Iowan>	Now we'll need a drop of blood and a credit card number (just kidding)
Sep 30 21:04:30 <kristau_ubuntu>	Heh, just like signing up for launchpad...
Sep 30 21:07:04 <Iowan>	Hmmm... my email isn't updating... but we'll get you approved.
Sep 30 21:07:28 <kristau_ubuntu>	np, no hurry. I'll get anything posted to the wiki/forum, too.
Sep 30 21:08:52 <Iowan>	OK... I'll hope for a flurry of activity this week. In the meantime, I'll (officially) close this meeting - no need to run off, though.
</pre>
