{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''3rd''' meeting of the '''Scribes Team''', starting at 09:02 GMT and finishing at 10:16 GMT

== Attendance ==
 1. ausimage
 2. AndrewWilliams
 3. medders
 4. Seeker`

== Agenda ==

* Research on Calendars [TABLED] -- AusImage
* Approve Meeting Summary process [TABLED]
** <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam/SubmitMeeting|Meeting Submission]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam/HowToSummarize|Meeting Summarization]]</nowiki>
* Update on the bot
* A <nowiki>[[MeetingTracSpec|MeetingTracker]]</nowiki> for LP -- AusImage
* An alternative meeting request process -- AusImage
* Team Communication
* Raise use and interest

== Minutes ==

'''<nowiki>[[#calendar|Topic: Research Calendars]]</nowiki>'''

 [IDEA] 	ausimage 	Google Calendars: is fully an ical client... but is not directly apart of the community

 [IDEA] 	ausimage 	Fridge: is fully apart of the community but not fully an ical client

 [IDEA] 	Seeker` 	We use either one of the calenders, or both

 [IDEA] 	medders 	We should use Google Calendars until the Fridge is iCal compliant

 [IDEA] 	ausimage 	The Scribes will favor using the Fridge for it Calendar. It will work with them to improve the service so that it can be fully utilized by the bot and the community

 [VOTE] 	We use the FRIDGE and work with them to improve it to bring it to our required standards. RESULT 	4 for, 0 against, total: 4

'''<nowiki>[[#summary|Topic: Approve Meeting Summary Process]]</nowiki>'''

 [LINK] 	ausimage 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/SubmitMeeting

 [LINK] 	ausimage 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/HowToSummarize

 [VOTE] 	Approve the meeting process as outlined in the two documents linked under this topic... RESULT 	4 for, 0 against, total: 4

 [AGREED] 	ausimage 	The meeting summary documents are approved...

'''<nowiki>[[#mootbot|Topic: MootBoot]]</nowiki>'''

'''<nowiki>[[#tracker|Topic: Meeting Tracker]]</nowiki>'''

 [LINK] 	ausimage 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingTracSpec

'''<nowiki>[[#alternate|Topic: Alternate request Process]]</nowiki>'''

 [LINK] 	ausimage 	https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu-scribes

 [ACTION] 	ausimage 	Explore using the LP support feature for meeting requests

'''<nowiki>[[#communication|Topic: Team communication]]</nowiki>'''

 [ACTION] 	ausimage 	Ausimage will contact about the mailing list

'''<nowiki>[[#interest|Topic: Raise Interest and Use]]</nowiki>'''

 [ACTION] 	ausimage 	Medders explore a Starting a Team page

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
[16:02:49] <ausimage> Ok the agenda is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Scribes/20070305 in case you want to follow
[16:03:10] <ausimage> Be sure to speak up if you have anything to add
[16:03:13] <AndrewWilliams> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Scribes/20070305
[16:03:23] <ausimage> thank you andrew
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(calendar)]]</nowiki><pre>
[16:03:38] <ausimage> [TOPIC] Research Calendars
[16:03:40] <medders> PRESENT
[16:03:51] <ausimage> thank you medders
[16:03:56] <medders> nearly forgot ;)
[16:04:02] <Seeker`> PRESENT
[16:04:08] <ausimage> PRESENT
[16:04:13] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: Does it autolog who says stuff now?
[16:04:23] <AndrewWilliams> as in?
[16:04:36] <Seeker`> compiling the list of who is present
[16:04:40] <AndrewWilliams> oh yes,
[16:04:44] <AndrewWilliams> no need to say PRESENT
[16:04:50] <Seeker`> thought so :P
[16:04:51] <AndrewWilliams> it just adds you to the list if you say something
[16:05:01] <ausimage> awesome AndrewWilliams
[16:05:08] <medders> sounds good :)
[16:05:09] <AndrewWilliams> and it outputs the list after the endmeeting
[16:05:10] <Seeker`> right, ausimage , Care to recap on what you found out about calenders last time
[16:05:19] <ausimage> as I was saying on the tabled calendars
[16:06:14] <ausimage> I feel that we have two options setup a Google Calendar to list all the meetings or push the Fridge more by sending them info....
[16:07:07] <ausimage> [IDEA] Google Calendars: is fully an ical client... but is not directly apart of the community
[16:07:54] <ausimage> [IDEA] Fridge: is fully apart of the community but not fully an ical client
[16:08:29] <ausimage> I suggested last time that we could try and work with the fridge to improve their service....
[16:08:42] <Seeker`> I think that is probably the best idea
[16:09:05] <ausimage> The fridge lack a location field... they are currently fudging it in the description field
[16:09:25] <ausimage> any questions??
[16:09:46] <AndrewWilliams> nope
[16:09:51] <Seeker`> [IDEA] We use either one of the calenders, or both
[16:10:08] <Seeker`> I suggest we dont do both, as it will increase both workload, and complexity with the bot
[16:10:43] <medders> I think we should just stick to the recognised standard
[16:10:48] <ausimage> I feel based on the feedback that perhaps having meeting where Fridge is invited would be helpful....
[16:11:00] <medders> and use Google calendars until fridge is compliant
[16:11:25] <ausimage> medders phrase that in a motion please
[16:12:02] <medders> [IDEA]We should use Google Calendars until the Fridge is iCal compliant
[16:12:11] <Seeker`> hmm
[16:12:16] <Seeker`> I disagree with that
[16:12:37] <ausimage> how would your phrase it Seeker`
[16:12:42] <Seeker`> it means that we will start getting used to using something, then have to change it. It will also mean that the bot will have to be changed to cope with the new format
[16:12:53] <AndrewWilliams> ical is the way to go
[16:12:59] <Seeker`> ausimage: I wouldn't. We should choose one, or the other, and stick with it
[16:13:13] <ausimage> OK how about this...
[16:13:26] <medders> if the fridge is going to get better, then even sticking with the one would mean a change in format
[16:13:48] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: The problem is that we want community integration - and they are using the fridge at the moment
[16:14:03] <Seeker`> medders: Unless they completely redesign the system, it will be a case of small modificaitons
[16:14:25] <AndrewWilliams> i thought the fridge outputs as ical?
[16:14:31] <ausimage> [IDEA] The Scribes will favor using the Fridge for it Calendar. It will work with them to improve the service so that it can be fully utilized by the bot and the community
[16:14:46] <Seeker`> I thought that it wasn't fully compliant
[16:14:57] <ausimage> Andrew the ical that the fridge uses lacks the location field
[16:15:02] <AndrewWilliams> ahh
[16:15:02] <AndrewWilliams> ok
[16:15:31] <ausimage> Should we get a consesus on the last idea I proposed
[16:16:07] <medders> that sounds sensible
[16:16:09] <ausimage> [VOTE]
[16:16:24] <AndrewWilliams> mmm should use a topic there :)
[16:16:25] <Seeker`> ausimage: you are using it wrong
[16:16:31] <Seeker`> you need to do [vote] what to vote on
[16:16:36] <Seeker`> do #endvote and start again
[16:16:42] <ausimage> #endvote
[16:17:31] <ausimage> [VOTE] We use the FRIDGE and work with them to improve it to bring it to our required standards.
[16:17:37] <ausimage> +1
[16:17:42] <AndrewWilliams> +1
[16:17:51] <medders> +1
[16:17:59] <Seeker`> +1
[16:18:21] <ausimage> anyone else not lurking???
[16:18:32] <ausimage> #endvote
[16:18:44] <ausimage> OK then that is what will be done
</pre><pre>
[16:19:06] <ausimage> [TOPIC] Approve Meeting Summary Process
[16:19:22] <medders> who'll be working with the fridge team? anyone specifically?
[16:19:43] <medders> a bit slow, I apologise
[16:19:52] <ausimage> I am a bit quick....
[16:19:59] <ausimage> sorry
[16:19:59] <Seeker`> ausimage: You should ask if there is anything else on the topic before changing the topic
[16:20:11] <ausimage> I forgot
[16:20:19] <Seeker`> and use an [agreed] tag after the vote, to make it easier to see in the summary
[16:21:09] <ausimage> medders: we can discuss the specifics after
[16:21:17] <medders> ausimage: okay, cheers
[16:21:31] <ausimage> now on the meeting summary
[16:21:46] <ausimage> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/SubmitMeeting
[16:21:56] <ausimage> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/HowToSummarize
[16:22:14] <ausimage> are the two documents that we have the process...
[16:23:08] <ausimage> I feel the team needs to be able to stand behind them and be able to recomend them to other teams in the community
[16:23:43] <ausimage> Has everyone at least looked them over ???
[16:23:51] <Seeker`> yeah
[16:24:01] <medders> yup
[16:24:06] <AndrewWilliams> yup
[16:24:29] <ausimage> Do we have questions about them or suggestions???
[16:24:45] <Seeker`> i dont
[16:25:06] <AndrewWilliams> on the HowToSummarize document, you do do with a link to the MootBot guide
[16:25:22] <medders> We should ask the screencast team for a screencast to add to the page
[16:25:41] <medders> that would be useful
[16:25:44] <ausimage> that would be wonerful medders
[16:26:14] <medders> that's popey's territory really
[16:26:42] <ausimage> AndrewWilliams you suggesting adding something about the mootbot guide to the moot bot summary section???
[16:27:36] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: The "HowToSummarize" is for after the meeting has taken place
[16:27:44] <AndrewWilliams> true sorry
[16:27:56] <AndrewWilliams> wasn't full concentrating then :)
[16:28:39] <ausimage> [VOTE] Approve the meeting process as outlined in the two documents linked under this topic...
[16:29:06] <ausimage> +1
[16:29:09] <AndrewWilliams> +1
[16:29:50] <ausimage> medders Seeker` ???
[16:29:58] <medders> sorry :)
[16:29:59] <medders> +1
[16:30:52] <Seeker`> +!
[16:30:55] <Seeker`> +1
[16:31:06] <ausimage> Seeker`: you excited???
[16:31:11] <ausimage> #endvote
[16:31:37] <Seeker`> :P
[16:31:42] <ausimage> [AGREED] The meeting summary documents are approved...
[16:31:54] <ausimage> Anything else on the is topic
[16:32:22] <Seeker`> no
[16:32:36] <ausimage> I do have some informational stuff I would like to discuss related to this, but I will cover it later
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(mootbot)]]</nowiki><pre>
[16:32:56] <ausimage> [TOPIC] MootBoot
[16:33:13] <ausimage> Seeker` AndrewWilliams what is up with MootBot
[16:33:16] <Seeker`> what about mootbot?
[16:33:27] <ausimage> an update please
[16:33:27] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams has been doing lots with development
[16:33:51] <Seeker`> We have tagged the code for release 0.1, i just need to do some documentation at some point
[16:33:57] <Seeker`> There is now an SVN for it
[16:34:12] <ausimage> AndrewWilliams: anything from you
[16:34:13] <Seeker`> and a mailing list (which has approximately 0 traffic atm)
[16:34:16] <AndrewWilliams> the "stable" version 0.1 is just being bugfixed
[16:34:26] <AndrewWilliams> and i'll be starting further work on trunk in a few days
[16:34:41] <ausimage> any new features??
[16:34:53] <AndrewWilliams> not of yet
[16:34:54] <Seeker`> the list of people that say stuff
[16:35:01] <AndrewWilliams> oh yes, that :)
[16:35:01] <Seeker`> thats new since the ;ast meetin
[16:35:03] <Seeker`> g
[16:35:13] <ausimage> Ok cool
[16:35:18] <AndrewWilliams> generally the log writing core is a tad cleaner
[16:35:22] <medders> are we going to try to get templating into it?
[16:35:31] <Seeker`> medders: Its on the todo list
[16:35:37] <ausimage> awesome
[16:35:38] <AndrewWilliams> well the log writing is abstracted out now, its the next item i'm going to take a look at
[16:35:45] <medders> Seeker`: excellent, that would be a great feature
[16:35:59] <Seeker`> It will be one of the features for the 0.2 release
[16:36:30] <AndrewWilliams> i dont think we've got any targets for 0.2 yet?
[16:36:47] <ausimage> anything else
[16:37:03] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: Thats one of them :P
[16:37:11] <AndrewWilliams> hehe
[16:37:13] <ausimage> boys :D
[16:37:19] <Seeker`> ausimage: what?
[16:37:35] <ausimage> tit for tat huh??
[16:37:44] <Seeker`> ausimage: That wasn't arguing
[16:37:58] <ausimage> sticking toungues out ;)
[16:38:13] <ausimage> OK then
[16:38:24] <ausimage> this topic is done right?
[16:38:27] <Seeker`> yeah
</pre><pre>
[16:38:47] <ausimage> [TOPIC] Meeting Tracker
[16:39:20] <ausimage> This an idea I am bringing up.... as you know I am always full of them
[16:39:38] <ausimage> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingTracSpec
[16:40:25] <ausimage> I would like to think that LP should have all the features necessary for meeting process management....
[16:40:31] <Seeker`> back in 5
[16:40:41] <AndrewWilliams> i had a browse over it before, looks good
[16:40:53] <ausimage> They do have some, but I feel it can be improved...
[16:41:04] <ausimage> that is what the link is about
[16:41:48] <ausimage> I just am looking for feedback at this point and maybe some gentle inquires about why this could not be made available in LP
[16:42:24] <ausimage> I am already known as the one who wants to resurect the failed calendar on LP ;)
[16:43:20] <ausimage> When I spoke with them about this months ago, they said they had a calendar which was under utilitized and had some bugs so they killed it
[16:43:49] <medders> I'm sure you could rally up some community support :)
[16:43:55] <ausimage> Basically I think this approach might work better... and I am not calling it a calendar
[16:44:20] <ausimage> yeah medders... I thought I would start from the scribes and work out
[16:44:58] <ausimage> All I am saying do not hesitate to visit #launchpad and talk this spec up
[16:45:05] <ausimage> :D
[16:45:30] <medders> I will do when I'm talking in there next :)
[16:45:33] <ausimage> As I mentioned in the spec they have something there... but it is not intergated
[16:46:00] <ausimage> Intergration is the key with the teams.... not products and projects.
[16:46:32] <ausimage> which leads me to
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(alternate)]]</nowiki><pre>
[16:46:47] <ausimage> [TOPIC] Alternate request Process
[16:47:32] <ausimage> I noticed this with another project I was helping out on
[16:48:08] <ausimage> There is a support feature built into the teams... but you cannot directly ask for help from a team.... :(
[16:49:01] <ausimage> I did an experiment and realized creating a product called ubuntu-scribes... that I could use this to request support from the Scribes :)
[16:49:47] <ausimage> I was thinking that this might be useful in requesting meeting summarys and bot time.... rather than having to email the team... just fill out a form
[16:50:02] <Seeker`> back
[16:50:08] <ausimage> questions and comments ???
[16:50:31] <Seeker`> hmm
[16:50:41] <medders> ausimage: that's the functionality we want, its unfortunate that you have to register the team as a product
[16:50:45] <Seeker`> if you email the team, it is probably more likely to be picked up
[16:51:04] <ausimage> I did register team as a product already just to see if it would work
[16:51:24] <ausimage> actually the support is emailed out seeker
[16:51:40] <Seeker`> i think having the team on LP is making things more complicated than it needs to be
[16:51:54] <Seeker`> what advantage does it give over a mailing list?
[16:52:15] <ausimage> Some prefer forms to email
[16:52:26] <Seeker`> some prefer email to forms
[16:52:52] <ausimage> Seeker`: I am only throwing out the idea for us to mull over...
[16:53:20] <ausimage> I would like the team decide if it seems useful....
[16:53:26] <Seeker`> ausimage: I know, I am just trying to work out what advantages it would give us
[16:53:47] <medders> this would definitly be useful for other teams to get their meetings on our radar so to speak
[16:53:55] <ausimage> if it does we can further explore them... and decide to go further at another meeting
[16:54:09] <Seeker`> and the fact that "some prefer froms to email" isn't really an advantage
[16:54:16] <Seeker`> unless we support both, which is a bad idea
[16:54:25] <medders> the forms would make it seem more inviting to some
[16:54:26] <Seeker`> as it means that the information wont be in one place
[16:54:34] <Seeker`> medders: But less inviting to others
[16:55:04] <Seeker`> what about if i dont like forms? What if I prefer email? The form will be less inviting to me
[16:55:17] <medders> Seeker`: true, but doesn't launchpad allow submissions by email?
[16:55:28] <medders> I know the bug tracking part does
[16:55:41] <Seeker`> Like I said, choosing to use something because it is more inviting to some is bad, unless its a large majority
[16:56:09] <Seeker`> I dont know, but what advantages does it give over a mailing list?
[16:56:41] <medders> the ability to use forms and emails as 2 types of input for 1 output ?
[16:56:47] <ausimage> I think we need further discussion of this after the meeting
[16:56:56] <medders> i'm not sure on the launchpad email bit, I'm checking that know
[16:56:58] <Seeker`> ausimage: No, its part of the meeting
[16:57:07] <ausimage> K
[16:57:15] <Seeker`> the point of the meeting is to disucss things like this
[16:57:25] <ausimage> alright....
[16:57:44] <Seeker`> apart from providing a form, what other advantages does it give?
[16:58:03] <medders> more solid integration into ubuntu?
[16:58:14] <ausimage> Seeker`: are familiar with the support feature on LP?
[16:59:06] <ausimage> [LINK] https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu-scribes
[16:59:21] <ausimage> is what I set up to test my idea
[16:59:32] <Seeker`> medders: How does it provide more solid integration to ubuntu?
[16:59:46] <Seeker`> ausimage: Yes, I am
[16:59:52] <ausimage> OK
[17:00:09] <medders> Seeker`: i probably should say it gives the impression of it being more integrated
[17:00:28] <Seeker`> medders: Why? A lot of ubuntu teams use mailing lists
[17:01:14] <ausimage> Seeker`: I know of one issue.. conerning the mailiing list
[17:01:37] <medders> Seeker`: true, I think it's having the 'gloss' of launchpad makes me feel as if it's more solid
[17:01:41] <ausimage> the lists on ubuntu do not allow mail through that is not a member of the list
[17:01:43] <medders> but it's probably me
[17:02:04] <Seeker`> ausimage: We want teams to have a member in scribes
[17:02:09] <Seeker`> so it helps drive towards that
[17:02:15] <ausimage> K that would work then
[17:02:30] <ausimage> just bringing up a point against the list
[17:02:47] <Seeker`> also, I find launchpad difficult to navigate when i'm not concentrating 100% on it
[17:03:03] <ausimage> What about new teams or teams that do not want to be apart of scribes ??
[17:03:18] <Seeker`> then they are unlikely to use mootbot
[17:03:57] <ausimage> K then our purpose is to serve only those who have members on our team ????
[17:04:07] <medders> we want to get MootBot used as much as possible thought don't we?
[17:04:11] <ausimage> I am not comfortable with that
[17:04:36] <Seeker`> ausimage: But people have to be registered with launchpad to make support requests...
[17:04:45] <Seeker`> people are going to have to sign up for something anyway
[17:05:01] <medders> all teams are registered on launchpad anyhow
[17:05:16] <medders> so at least one person from the team could post the request
[17:05:36] * ausimage did not realize such the can of worms this was
[17:05:55] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: Any input?
[17:06:23] <medders> ausimage: provoking thought is never bad :)
[17:06:38] <ausimage> actually my thought was that I would have the support email would go to the list
[17:06:39] <AndrewWilliams> not really, either way as long as we have a system
[17:07:43] <ausimage> should we explore this or drop it??
[17:07:48] <Seeker`> explore it
[17:07:59] <AndrewWilliams> explore, defo
[17:08:18] <Seeker`> My feeling is that email lists are more intuitive than launchpad
[17:08:32] <ausimage> [ACTION] Explore using the LP support feature for meeting requests
[17:08:38] <Seeker`> launchpad wont make it easier to organise / view the upcoming meetings
[17:09:05] <ausimage> true but part of the battle is getting the data to begin with
[17:09:23] <ausimage> shall we consider this discussed for now???
[17:09:36] <Seeker`> it depends on wether anyone else has anything else to say
[17:09:56] <ausimage> that was what I was implying
[17:10:14] <medders> I'm fine with that for now :)
[17:10:15] <ausimage> any questions or comments on this topic??
[17:10:21] <ausimage> OK
</pre><pre>
[17:10:31] <ausimage> [TOPIC] Team communication
[17:10:50] <ausimage> Seeker`: what is up the mailing list??
[17:11:25] <Seeker`> i've not heard anything
[17:11:52] <ausimage> I am wondering what happened I know of other teams that applied and have already gotten theres
[17:11:58] <ausimage> *theirs
[17:12:04] <Seeker`> ausimage: contact them again
[17:12:33] <ausimage> [ACTION] Ausimage will contact about the mailing list
[17:12:54] <ausimage> Any other team communication related needs or concerns??
[17:13:35] <ausimage> hearing none
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(interest)]]</nowiki><pre>
[17:13:46] <ausimage> [TOPIC] Raise Interest and Use
[17:14:12] <Seeker`> The LoCo team have agreed to use mootbot?
[17:14:21] <ausimage> Does anyone have suggestions how we can continue raising interest
[17:14:26] <ausimage> Seeker`: I belive so
[17:14:30] <medders> is there a page (generally, not specific to us) for people starting new teams? if se we should be mentioned
[17:14:54] <ausimage> medders would you like to find out??
[17:15:02] <medders> i'll get on it
[17:15:05] <ausimage> I am not aware of one
[17:15:21] <ausimage> anything else on this topic??
[17:15:40] <ausimage> [ACTION] Medders explore a Starting a Team page
[17:15:58] <ausimage> OK any other business
[17:16:16] <ausimage> anyone???
[17:16:24] <Seeker`> nope
[17:16:26] <AndrewWilliams> nope
[17:16:29] <ausimage> OK hearing none
[17:16:43] <ausimage> the meeting is over
[17:16:46] <ausimage> #endmeeting
</pre>

----
CategoryScribesTeam
