{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Raring Development
** Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* Daviey  to fix the release bugs report
* everyone look through http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
* apw, smb and Daviey to talk about a dependency break for xen-hypervisor-4.1-<arch> for some nova packages

===== Raring Development =====
* jamespage, smoser, and Daviey were looking through blueprint specs last week.  Most looked good, comments were made where additional detail was needed.  They haven't finished going through all specs yet.

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

** jcastro, m_3, smoser, and utlemming will be at https://reinvent.awsevents.com/ next week.

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

** smb and apw reviewed of Xen re-adding qemu-dm.  Could be ready to be uploaded soon, though the previous upload still in r-proposed may need to be dropped.
** apw, smb and Daviey need to talk about a dependency break for xen-hypervisor-4.1-<arch> for some nova packages
** bug 1078926 "raring instance failed to find EC2 datasource" has an upstream fix, but it may not yet be final.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Nov 27th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <hallyn> #startmeeting Ubuntu server meeting
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov 20 16:01:27 2012 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu server meeting Meeting | Current topic:
[16:01] <hallyn> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu server meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <hallyn> none on the agenda
[16:01] <hallyn> #topic Raring Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu server meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Raring Development
[16:02] <hallyn> does someone want to handle the release bugs?
[16:02] <hallyn> #link Raring Development
[16:02] <hallyn> hm
[16:02] <hallyn> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
[16:02] <jamespage> o/
[16:02] <smoser> o/
[16:03] <hallyn> that's not updated for raring, is it relevant?
[16:03] <Daviey> hallyn: Action me to fix it :)
[16:03] <hallyn> #action Daviey to remove release bugs item from agenda
[16:03] <meetingology> ACTION: Daviey to remove release bugs item from agenda
[16:03] <Daviey> (fix the report)
[16:03] <hallyn> oh
[16:03] <hallyn> #action Daviey  to fix the release bugs report
[16:03] <meetingology> ACTION: Daviey  to fix the release bugs report
[16:04] <hallyn> ok, so on to http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server i guess
[16:04] <hallyn> Daviey: do you want to drive that?
[16:04] <Daviey> hallyn: I'm sorry, i cannot.
[16:05] <Daviey> hallyn: (I'm got one foot in irc right now, but my heart on the phone)
[16:05] <hallyn> ok, waht i see is a whole lot of unassigned high priority bugs...
[16:05] <hallyn> bug 1064224 being critical
[16:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1064224 in maas (Ubuntu Raring) "IPMI detection ends up with power_address of 0.0.0.0" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1064224
[16:06] <hallyn> ah, roaxsoax isnt here but seems to be handling it
[16:06] <hallyn> jamespage: you marked it critical, any comment on it, or is it progressing ok?
[16:07] <hallyn> ok, let me just turn this into an action for everyone to go through that list.  bc i see at leaset one that i need to deal with (i.e. remove)
[16:07] <jamespage> hallyn, with regards to the maas bugs; I went through and aligned them to maas upstream in importance
[16:07] <hallyn> #action everyone look through http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
[16:07] <meetingology> ACTION: everyone look through http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
[16:07] <jamespage> most are inprogress or committed - so its OK
[16:07] <hallyn> jamespage: ok, thanks
[16:07] <hallyn> arosales: do you want to go through blueprints?
[16:08] <arosales> hallyn: hello :-)
[16:08] <hallyn> howdie :)
[16:08] <arosales> I think the main thing jamespage, smoser, and Daviey were working on was specs in blueprints
[16:08] <arosales> how is that going?
[16:09] <smoser> we made an initial pass through them last week.
[16:09] <Daviey> (Rest still to finish)
[16:09] <smoser> they generally look in good shape (other than the ones I did).
[16:09] <smoser> we made comments in the whiteboard of ones that needed more fleshing out.
[16:10] <arosales> smoser: any to bring up here?
[16:10] <smoser> if you have a blueprint that you are wondering about the status of, please ping jamespage or Daviey
[16:10] <hallyn> does anyone have questions about their blueprints they want to ask here?
[16:10] <smoser> as they are not taking long hiatus for turkey consumption shortly like I am.
[16:11] <jamespage> ta smoser :-)
[16:11] <hallyn> thanks guys, moving on,
[16:11] <hallyn> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu server meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:11] <hallyn> anything coming up?
[16:11] <hallyn> (3,
[16:11] <hallyn> 2,
[16:11] <smoser> https://reinvent.awsevents.com/ is next week.
[16:11] <hallyn> oh yeah i keep getting emails about that
[16:11] <smoser> jcastro, m_3, smoser, utlemming.
[16:11] <smoser> will be there.
[16:12] <hallyn> that's a big group
[16:12] <hallyn> can we watch an online stream (and giggle)?
[16:13] <hallyn> eh i'll have to look for one, sounds aweseome.  moving on,
[16:13] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu server meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:13] <hallyn> hggdh: around?
[16:13] <hallyn> seems not, moving on,
[16:13] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu server meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:13] <hallyn> hi smb
[16:13]  * smb takes break
[16:13] <smb> err breath
[16:14] <smb> I went through the review of Xen that adds back qemu-dm with apw. We found a few documentation/packaging improvements and I think could be uploaded soonish. Though probably need to kick out the previous upload still in raring-proposed. Which actually brings up the next topic: Daviey, I think apw talked to you already about the dependency breakage for xen-hypervisor-4.1-<arch> for some nova packages.
[16:14] <smb> One option there may be to depend on the xen-system-<arch> meta-packages which are produced since xen-4.1.3 (though those pull in xen-utils as well).
[16:14] <smb> Otherwise bug 1078926 seems to have some upstream fix. Though its not yet completely clear whether it potentially could change a bit before finally arriving there. I have added some links to test kernels to the report.
[16:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1078926 in Ubuntu "raring instance failed to find EC2 datasource" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1078926
[16:14] <smb> ..
[16:15] <hallyn> smb: Daviey is on the phone, let's give him another 30 secs to see the ping
[16:15] <smoser> smb, thanks for your work there.
[16:15] <hallyn> zul: ^ any comment on the xen packaging suggestion?
[16:15] <smoser> on that bug. you were able to reproduce locally ?
[16:15] <smb> smoser, Merely prodding upstream
[16:15] <smb> smb, Yes I was
[16:15] <smb> Actually even with xen 4.2 host
[16:15] <hallyn> smb: do i understand right that the kernel in quantal-proposed should have fixes for all the network namespace refcount bugs?
[16:16] <zul> i dont have a comment yet
[16:16] <hallyn> zul: np, thanks, just checking
[16:16] <smb> hallyn, I think the second fix is still pending to move into updates
[16:16] <hallyn> right, but fix is in proposed at least - phew
[16:17] <hallyn> ok, pls catch Daviey later :)  moving on,
[16:17] <smb> hallyn, Yes it should be
[16:17] <hallyn> thanks smb
[16:17] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu server meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:17] <hallyn> rbasak: any news?
[16:17] <rbasak> Nothing to report. Any questions for me?
[16:18] <hallyn> sounds like no,
[16:18] <hallyn> thanks, rbasak.  moving on,
[16:18] <hallyn> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu server meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Open Discussion
[16:19] <hallyn> we're saving our chatting for turkey day?
[16:19] <hallyn> ok,
[16:19] <hallyn> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu server meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:20] <hallyn> next meeting will be next Tuesday, Nov 27, at 16:00 UTC
[16:20] <hallyn> thanks everyone
[16:20] <hallyn> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:20] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Nov 20 16:20:20 2012 UTC.
[16:20] <meetingology> Minutes (wiki):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-11-20-16.01.moin.txt
[16:20] <meetingology> Minutes (html):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-11-20-16.01.html
</pre>
