{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

=== Minutes ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** smoser look at / assign bugs 1206872 , 1156932 , 1228228
** zuul look at bugs 1199791, 1223010
** rbasak / jamespage look at bugs 1231901
** zul to look at problem in python-cliff launchpad branch
** roaksoax to look at bug 1227353

* Saucy Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
* ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <adam_g> o/
[16:02] <arosales> hello
[16:02] <adam_g> heya
[16:03] <arosales> adam_g, you chairing today?
[16:03] <adam_g> yup
[16:03] <arosales> thanks
[16:03] <adam_g> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:03] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct  8 16:03:34 2013 UTC.  The chair is adam_g. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:03] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:03] <arosales> o/
[16:03] <adam_g> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:04] <adam_g> smoser look at / assign bugs 1206872 , 1156932 , 1228228
[16:04] <ubottu> bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba needs a config.sub update to support aarch64" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1206872
[16:05] <adam_g> smoser, any updates? i see bug #1228228 has some Fixed Released tags
[16:05] <ubottu> bug 1228228 in cloud-init "ubuntu is not added to sudo group" [Low,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1228228
[16:05] <rbasak> I've just verified 1228228 as fixed
[16:05] <smoser> i'll look at the others right now.
[16:05] <smoser> sorry.
[16:05] <adam_g> k
[16:06] <adam_g> #action smoser look at / assign bugs 1206872 , 1156932
[16:06] <meetingology> ACTION: smoser look at / assign bugs 1206872 , 1156932
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba needs a config.sub update to support aarch64" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1206872
[16:06] <adam_g> zuul look at bugs 1199791, 1223010
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1223010 in keystone (Ubuntu Saucy) "Use oauthlib rather than oauth." [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1223010
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1199791 in nova (Ubuntu Saucy) "nova-compute-xcp misses nova-compute.conf" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1199791
[16:07] <adam_g> hmm. zuul isn't here, neither is zul
[16:07] <adam_g> #action zuul look at bugs 1199791, 1223010
[16:07] <meetingology> ACTION: zuul look at bugs 1199791, 1223010
[16:07] <ubottu> bug 1223010 in keystone (Ubuntu Saucy) "Use oauthlib rather than oauth." [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1223010
[16:07] <ubottu> bug 1199791 in nova (Ubuntu Saucy) "nova-compute-xcp misses nova-compute.conf" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1199791
[16:07] <adam_g> rbasak / jamespage look at bugs 1231901
[16:07] <ubottu> bug 1231901 in nagios3 (Ubuntu Saucy) "Installing Nagios3 and Apache2 in Saucy does not enable the cgi mod, which is required" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1231901
[16:07] <jamespage> fixed
[16:07] <adam_g> noice.
[16:08] <adam_g> zul to look at problem in python-cliff launchpad branch
[16:08] <jamespage> adam_g, zul should be along shortly
[16:08] <adam_g> jamespage, cool.
[16:08] <adam_g> roaksoax to look at bug 1227353
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1227353 in maas (Ubuntu Raring) "Please promote maas-dns, maas-dhcp to main" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1227353
[16:08] <adam_g> roaksoax, all good there?
[16:09] <jamespage> fixed afaict
[16:09] <jamespage> oh - its is for saucy but not the other releases
[16:09] <jamespage> indicator is 'won't fix' for the other ones...
[16:10] <adam_g> ok
[16:11] <adam_g> re-actioning for zul to confirm, but i think its been fixed up
[16:11] <roaksoax> adam_g: yup, make it to saucy but we need SRU
[16:11] <adam_g> #action zul to look at problem in python-cliff launchpad branch
[16:11] <meetingology> ACTION: zul to look at problem in python-cliff launchpad branch
[16:12] <adam_g> roaksoax, can you update the bug to 'Wont Fix' for those tasks if it looks un-SRUable?
[16:12] <roaksoax> yeah will do when I get to it, thanks!
[16:12] <adam_g> cool
[16:12] <adam_g> #topic Saucy Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Saucy Development
[16:13] <adam_g> bug 1213915	
[16:13] <ubottu> bug 1213915 in ceph (Ubuntu Saucy) "Please demote ceph-mds and ceph-fs-common to universe" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1213915
[16:13] <adam_g> jamespage, any update?
[16:14] <jamespage> I suspect that won't get done in released ubuntu
[16:14] <jamespage> but no - no -update
[16:14] <jamespage> I'll ping doko again
[16:14] <adam_g> k
[16:14] <adam_g> bug 1236439
[16:14] <ubottu> bug 1236439 in neutron (Ubuntu Saucy) "switch to use hostnames like nova breaks upgrades of l3-agent" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1236439
[16:14] <adam_g> any indication this will be fixed for Havana, jamespage ?
[16:15] <jamespage> adam_g, no - I raised it upstream with ttx
[16:15] <jamespage> if there is an upstream commit I'll pull it in before release day
[16:15] <adam_g> ack
[16:15] <jamespage> adam_g, the problem is that the change was applied to fix a whole load of other issues
[16:15] <adam_g> probably the same for bug 1236875, eh?
[16:15] <ubottu> bug 1236875 in nova (Ubuntu Saucy) "unable to hotplug additional network interfaces into instances" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1236875
[16:15] <jamespage> ditto
[16:15] <jamespage> yep
[16:15] <jamespage> only hit that today
[16:16] <adam_g> sounds bad, but looks fixable
[16:16] <adam_g> bug 1156932
[16:16] <ubottu> bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1156932
[16:17] <jamespage> adam_g, agreed
[16:17] <jamespage> adam_g, that won't get fixed - I'm going to remove the series tasks for that
[16:17] <adam_g> smoser just added a comment there (python-novaclient). appears to be a low prio bug for our release
[16:17] <adam_g> k
[16:17] <smoser> adam_g, yeah. i just made it so.
[16:17] <adam_g> bug 1208455
[16:17] <ubottu> bug 1208455 in linux (Ubuntu Saucy) "general protection fault running apt-get inside double nested kvm VM" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1208455
[16:17] <smoser> andcommented that we dont really need to fix.
[16:19] <adam_g> i see stefan assigned there, not sure if his team is tracking this one for release
[16:20] <adam_g> bug 1199791
[16:20] <ubottu> bug 1199791 in nova (Ubuntu Saucy) "nova-compute-xcp misses nova-compute.conf" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1199791
[16:20] <doko> jamespage, about 1213915?
[16:20] <jamespage> doko, yes
[16:22] <adam_g> i wonder when the last time the nova-compute-xcp package was tested. that bug hasn't been touched but d/control looks as if config should be pulled in
[16:22] <jamespage> adam_g, no idea
[16:22] <adam_g> gonna comment and will wait to hear from zul
[16:22] <adam_g> bug 1210054
[16:22] <ubottu> bug 1210054 in juju-core (Ubuntu Saucy) "juju terminate-machine with local provider doesn't destroy machine" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1210054
[16:23] <adam_g> jamespage, this was fixed in 1.15.0. are good in saucy?
[16:23] <adam_g> ..doesn't look like it
[16:23] <jamespage> adam_g, not yet - the 1.16.0 release has been delayed
[16:24] <jamespage> hope to make Final Freeze for it
[16:24] <adam_g> k
[16:24] <jamespage> https://launchpad.net/juju-core/+milestone/1.16.0
[16:24] <jamespage> thats what is currently on the pending list
[16:24] <adam_g> bug 1223010
[16:24] <ubottu> bug 1223010 in keystone (Ubuntu Saucy) "Use oauthlib rather than oauth." [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1223010
[16:24] <adam_g> i think this oauth problem is a non-issue now
[16:25] <adam_g> we patch around the requirements.txt, and upstream has fixed imports such that is no longer required unless using the extension
[16:25] <adam_g> commenting for zul to confirm
[16:26] <adam_g> bug 1231970
[16:26] <ubottu> bug 1231970 in websockify (Ubuntu T-series) "[FFe] nova-novncproxy requires websockify > 0.5 - please sync from unstable" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1231970
[16:26] <adam_g> looks resolved for the moment
[16:27] <adam_g> bug 1236726
[16:27] <ubottu> bug 1236726 in lxc (Ubuntu Saucy) "lxc ubuntu-cloud template is broken due to bogus tar option" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1236726
[16:27] <adam_g> fixed ~30 minutes ago. will probably drop from our tracker soon
[16:27] <adam_g> bug 1206872
[16:27] <ubottu> bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba needs a config.sub update to support aarch64" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1206872
[16:29] <adam_g> bug 1233376
[16:29] <ubottu> bug 1233376 in hv-kvp-daemon-init (Ubuntu Saucy) "hv_kvp_daemon and hv_vss_daemon are missing from linux-tools" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1233376
[16:30] <adam_g> no utlemming
[16:31] <adam_g> Blueprints
[16:31] <adam_g> jamespage, anything you want to note?
[16:31] <jamespage> oh
[16:31] <jamespage> right
[16:32] <jamespage> last week of release; think about postponing anything that won't complete
[16:32] <jamespage> please do take time to review outstanding work items and update; I know I've been a little lax in the last 2 weeks
[16:33] <adam_g> thanks for the heads up
[16:33] <jamespage> adam_g, I think thats it - anything major that is not done now - won't get done!
[16:33] <adam_g> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:33] <adam_g> caribou, heya anything you want to add?
[16:34] <caribou> Nothing right now, still have to fetch a bug list
[16:34] <adam_g> k
[16:34] <adam_g> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:34] <adam_g> psivaa, heya
[16:34] <psivaa> no updates from us
[16:34] <adam_g> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:35] <adam_g> no smb today
[16:35] <adam_g> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:35] <adam_g> rbasak, ello
[16:35] <rbasak> No updates from me. Any questions?
[16:36] <adam_g> guess not
[16:36] <adam_g> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:36] <adam_g> ODS Hong Kong is coming up quick
[16:37] <adam_g> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:38] <adam_g> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:38] <adam_g> Next meeting will be Tuesday 2013-10-15 at 1600 UTC charied by jamespage
[16:38] <adam_g> #endmeeting
</pre>
