{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
<pre>
[18:02] <heno> #startmeeting
[18:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 12:02. The chair is heno.
[18:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[18:02] <heno> agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
[18:03] <heno> Beta testing is of course the big topic today
[18:04] <davmor2> I've nearly completed Xubuntu
[18:04] <heno> everyone has done a great job testing since images started appearing yesterday
[18:04] <heno> bad news is ... we may get new desktop CDs still
[18:05] <heno> thanks ara for finding bug 276657 :)
[18:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 276657 in ubiquity "Main menu is still in English after installation from LiveCD" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/276657
[18:05] <heno> it's apparently non-trivial to recover if we ship that on the beta CDs
[18:06] <heno> We may know by the end of the meeting
[18:06] <davmor2> Ah it's okay just means ara needs to test them all ;)
[18:06] <heno> meanwhile let's move to:
[18:06] <heno> [TOPIC] Regression bug triage
[18:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Regression bug triage
[18:06] <heno> the triage team have looked at these
[18:07] <heno> and there is at least one worrying bug, the repeat suspend bug
[18:07] <heno> bug 261084
[18:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 261084 in gnome-power-manager "Suspends again right after resume" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/261084
[18:08] <heno> bdmurray: do you want to talk about that, or raise other bugs?
[18:08] <bdmurray> heno: I think it would be good if another person could test bug 261084 just to confirm my findings
[18:09] <bdmurray> I looked through upstream bug trackers and didn't see anything similar
[18:10] <heno> yes, an impact assessment would be good here, to figure out how many machines it affects
[18:11] <ara> bdmurray: I could try that
[18:11] <ara> bdmurray: i need to install the updates first, though
[18:11] <heno> it seems too late for beta though if there is no fix in sight yet
[18:11] <bdmurray> ara: that'd be great, let me know if you need any help
[18:11] <heno> bryce: around? could you look at bug 261084 ?
[18:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 261084 in gnome-power-manager "Suspends again right after resume" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/261084
[18:11] <bdmurray> ted seemed to have an idea about what change might have done it
[18:12] <heno> ted suggests it may be X repeating the keystroke
[18:12] <davmor2> I got ubuntu still I can install it on my intel machine
[18:12] <bryce> heno, ok
[18:12] <bdmurray> right, when I spoke to him last he didn't think so
[18:12] <heno> ok
[18:12] <bdmurray> It's possible to recreate it with a Live CD, so no install would be necessary
[18:13] <heno> still, more eyeballs on it doesn't hurt
[18:13] <sbeattie> I can test it in a little while, but I've got something else on my plate at the moment.
[18:13] <bryce> heno: it's probably more likely acpi than X; X tends to be less involved in hotkey handling than before
[18:14] <heno> bryce: ok, thanks
[18:14] <heno> schwuk: do you think we could test this on the laptops in Montreal?
[18:15] <heno> install intrepid and then go around manually suspending a bunch of them
[18:15] <sbeattie> bryce: we should probably document that due to the fglrx, more ati users will likely be using -ati and as such may see regressions on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidIbex/TechnicalOverview
[18:16] <schwuk> heno: we should be able to, but - as you say - it would be manual
[18:17] <bryce> sbeattie: I'd agree - did you want to put in an initial draft of something?  I'd be happy to flesh it out.
[18:17] <heno> schwuk: right, but it would be a one-time fact-finding mission
[18:17] <heno> to find the scope of it
[18:18] <sbeattie> bryce: sure.
[18:18] <heno> schwuk: are you able to kick off the relevant installs?
[18:18] <bdmurray> heno: would it change releasing the beta?
[18:18] <bryce> heno, I'll update the bug.
[18:18] <sbeattie> [ACTION] sbeattie to put an initial draft of fglrx/-ati issue on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidIbex/TechnicalOverview
[18:18]  * sbeattie sighs at mootbot.
[18:19] <heno> bdmurray: my view would be no, but the release team decides
[18:19] <heno> it can be fixed with an update once the problem is found
[18:20] <davmor2> bdmurray: I'd of said no but put it in the release text
[18:20] <heno> while the lang-pack problem has more subtle package management implications apparently
[18:20] <schwuk> heno: I've tried connecting to montreal directly since re-installing this laptop, so probably not.
[18:21] <schwuk> I'll give it a go though.
[18:22] <heno> schwuk: ok, please look into what's needed - we can talk after the meeting about whether we actually want to do it
[18:22] <heno> perhaps we should instead devise a more general suspend-resume testing day on those machine next week
[18:24] <davmor2> could add it to the testing day
[18:24] <heno> so to continue the regression topic
[18:24] <heno> were there any other notable items that turned up?
[18:25] <bdmurray> bug 271550 is still unfixed, but I saw \sh mention something about it in #ubuntu-devel
[18:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 271550 in ia32-libs "ia32-libs missing libQtDBus, others?" [Unknown,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/271550
[18:26] <davmor2> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/275882
[18:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 275882 in ubuntu "Intrepid: Xubuntu doesn't play audio cd's" [Undecided,New]
[18:26] <bdmurray> I find it a bit slow going through the regression- ubgs
[18:27] <heno> yes it wasn't clear to me that his upload was to fix bug 271550
[18:27] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 271550 in ia32-libs "ia32-libs missing libQtDBus, others?" [Unknown,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/271550
[18:27] <heno> it's not marked fixed for Ubuntu, just Debian
[18:28] <sbeattie> bdmurray: me too. Do you have any ideas for making it better? Would it help to have the description available?
[18:28] <heno> is that just pending the upload perhaps?
[18:30] <bdmurray> "09:22 < \sh> can someone let ia32-libs*ubuntu15 go through the buildds  pls?"
[18:30] <bdmurray> From #ubuntu-devel this morning so I think so
[18:31] <heno> in fact the changelog claims 2.2ubuntu14 fixes it, ok
[18:31] <bdmurray> sbeattie: not so much the report I think but the time it takes to review the bugs
[18:32] <heno> bdmurray: what can we do to help the regression triage along? can we ask the dev teams to lend a hand for their packages?
[18:32] <ogasawara> sbeattie: would it be possible to sort each package by status and importance
[18:33] <bdmurray> heno: perhaps asking bug control to help out
[18:33] <bdmurray> sbeattie: maybe a reviewed checkbox, I think harvest has one, would help
[18:33] <sbeattie> ogasawara: within each package? Yeah, right now I'm just sorting by bug number as a secondary sort item.
[18:34] <heno> bdmurray: will you ask bug control? ogasawara: perhaps you can ask someone on the kernel team to look as well, I guess quite a few of these were kernel
[18:34] <ogasawara> sbeattie: yup, within each package
[18:35] <heno> (unless those are already well-triaged)
[18:35] <ogasawara> heno:  yes there are quite a few kernel ones, but many are in an incomplete state waiting for feedback
[18:35] <heno> ok
[18:36] <bdmurray> heno: I'll send a mail today
[18:36] <heno> let's review it again at the next meeting
[18:36] <heno> thanks bdmurray
[18:36] <heno> [TOPIC] Testing day next Monday
[18:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Testing day next Monday
[18:37] <ara> we are having our next testing day on Monday and we would focus on distribution upgrades
[18:37] <heno> ara will lead a testing day focusing on upgrades and update-manager automation
[18:37] <heno> :)
[18:38] <ara> if there are people willing to upgrade their systems, now that we reach the beta, it is a good opportunity to get some feedback
[18:39] <heno> we can ask people to try the system->VM script for multiple upgrade trials
[18:39] <heno> schwuk: you had played with that aslso right?
[18:40] <heno> schwuk: can you be around Monday to help people with that?
[18:40] <ara> heno: I haven't heard about that script, can you point to some doc?
[18:41] <schwuk> heno: I can, but if you recall my experience wasn't completely successful. I shall work with again before then.
[18:41] <heno> schwuk: so you can be there to warn people
[18:41] <heno> :)
[18:42] <heno> I was actually mvo's first pre-alpha tester
[18:43] <heno> but I'm sure it's not broken any systems since then ;)
[18:43] <heno> I can't find a link just now
[18:43] <schwuk> ara (and anyone else who's interested): https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2008-August/026017.html
[18:43] <ara> heno: np
[18:43] <heno> schwuk: do you know?
[18:43] <heno> thanks
[18:45] <heno> anyway, testing day will be great fun! :)
[18:45] <heno> moving on ...
[18:45] <heno> [TOPIC] Adding/Removing tracker test cases
[18:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Adding/Removing tracker test cases
[18:45] <heno> we have a few requests listed here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/
[18:46] <heno> I think we should also prune the case list a bit
[18:46] <davmor2> isn't the free software only for live cd too?
[18:47] <davmor2> - winfoss from edubutnu
[18:47] <heno> Edubuntu upgrade, for example, seems less important when there was no direct install in hardy
[18:47] <heno> I'd rather do an overloaded install + upgrade test
[18:47] <heno> liw and I did some of that for Hardy
[18:48] <heno> ara, schwuk can you two coordinate that this time
[18:48] <heno> weekly tests starting next week would be good
[18:49] <heno> by that I mean upgrading a large install, with 5-10000 packages
[18:49] <sbeattie> davmor2: free software is different from winfoss, it doesn't include stuff from multiverse.
[18:49] <sbeattie> but it's a regular install otherwise.
[18:49] <ara> heno, schwuk: sure
[18:49] <schwuk> heno, ara: likewise :)
[18:50] <heno> any other tests people think we should prune?
[18:50] <sbeattie> you can select the option on the live cd, but it doesn't appear to do anything.
[18:51] <davmor2> you could ask about xubuntu upgrades
[18:51] <heno> sbeattie: as in nothing at all happens or no different from normal?
[18:51] <sbeattie> no different from normal
[18:51] <heno> ok
[18:52] <davmor2> sbeattie: I know that :)  Edubuntu currently has winfoss on it rather than umenu and wubi.
[18:52] <heno> davmor2: esp. if we include xfce stuff in the large upgrade install
[18:52] <heno> davmor2: agreed, that test should be removed too
[18:53] <heno> ok, we'll add those to the list for removal
[18:53] <heno> any other topics?
[18:53] <heno> (no news on new desktop images yet, btw)
[18:53] <davmor2> do we need to re-test desktop
[18:54] <davmor2> testing suspend now
[18:55] <heno> davmor2: we may need to - don't know yet
[18:55] <heno> ok, thanks everyone!
[18:56] <heno> happy testing and triage!
[18:56] <ara> cheers!
[18:56] <heno> #endmeeting
[18:56] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 12:56.
</pre>
