{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
''first rough seperation needs work though''-- Ausimage <pre>
04:00	jono	hi all
04:00	jono	is anyone here for the community Q+A?
04:00	LoudMouthMan	Hello Jono.
=== Jucato raises his hand
04:00	omegabeta	Yep
04:00	intengu	yes
=== morgs too
04:00	jono	righteo
04:00	Jucato	ubuntu-meeting-questions seems to be empty though...
04:00	jono	yeah
04:01	jono	lets just ask questions in here
04:01	Jucato	:)
04:01	jono	please prefix a questions with QUESTION so I can see it
04:01	jono	ok, does anyone want to kick off with questions?
04:01	omegabeta	should we start on particular topics and work our way down?
04:01	jono	omegabeta: no, the plan is free form
04:01	jono	ask any questions you like
04:02	jono	so, any questions?
04:02	Jucato	are we limited to 1-2 questions per person? :D
04:02	jono	nope
04:02	jono	as many as you like
</pre><pre>
04:02	intengu	QUESTION: installed gnome main menu herd 4 in control centre groups system
04:02	jono	intengu: thats not a question :)
04:02	Jucato	heh
</pre><pre>
04:02	LoudMouthMan	QUESTION: Jono how do you feel community is doing. at this moment ?
04:03	boredandblogging	why the decision to allow only approved LoCos to have canonical hosted domains and site?
04:03	jono	LoudMouthMan: I think things are going well, I think our community is growing, we are developing some good best practise and the teams are beginning to communicate better
</pre><pre>
04:03	GazzaK	QUESTION - if I am rubbish at coding and the like, is a suitable path to ubuntu membership being active on the irc channels and also being the local town's lugmaster?  will I be able to become a ubuntu member with a lack of coding/bug fixing skills?
04:03	jono	LoudMouthMan: but there is lots of road ahead of us and we all need to work together to share information and experience better
</pre><pre>
04:03	gord	QUSTION: do you see any time in the future where ubuntu community teams will get more support from canonical, for example funding to hold conferences for local businesses or some such
04:03	jono	part of this effort is wiki.ubuntu.com/Buildingcommunity
04:04	dabaR	GazzaK: is that a serious question?
04:04	dabaR	haha
04:04	dabaR	Sorry
</pre><pre>
04:04	omegabeta	QUESTION : How do you plan to further the ease-of-use in terms of "out of the box" installs regarding display drivers/ network productivity (installation/finding) for the people that have swtiched from Windows, this seems to be the leap and biggest issue?
04:04	Jucato	GazzaK: yes!
=== Jucato did that
04:04	jono	ok
</pre><pre>
04:04	jono	QUESTION - if I am rubbish at coding and the like, is a suitable path to ubuntu membership being active on the irc channels and also being the local town's lugmaster?  will I be able to become a ubuntu member with a lack of coding/bug fixing skills?
04:05	dabaR	sup with everyone havin voice?
</pre><pre>
04:05	mobyli	QUESTION: herding cats. Companies make products and as such would no doubt like to influence the direction of upstream projects. How is this possible when you cannot use power directly as in a traditional corporate hierarchy?
04:05	jono	ubuntu membership is about proviing you are a good contributor, and if you can demonstrate commitment to the CC, you will get membership
04:05	jono	it is always recommended that when you apply for membership you have a good body of experience behind you - and there are lots and lots of people with experience in non-coding things such as locos, advocacy, docs etc
</pre><pre>
04:06	jono	QUSTION: do you see any time in the future where ubuntu community teams will get more support from canonical, for example funding to hold conferences for local businesses or some such
04:06	GazzaK	jono, thanks
04:06	jono	GazzaK: np
04:06	jono	Canonical try to support all teams where possible, and in reality, most teams don't need financial support but help and assistance getting off the ground
04:07	jono	but remember Canonical are a small company, and have a limited budget
</pre><pre>
04:07	JohnRobert	QUESTION: Why does totem have a video area when I'm playing a music file? I used to be able to resize it away..
04:07	Jucato	O.o
04:07	jono	so we try to plough resources into areas that are the most productive places for the money
04:07	jono	but yes, Canonical is always open to ideas for funding, speak to me if you want to ask
</pre><pre>
04:07	jono	QUESTION: why the decision to allow only approved LoCos to have canonical hosted domains and site?
04:07	Seveas	jono, then I have some tough questions for you later ;)
04:08	jono	Seveas: :)
04:08	jono	one of the big problems with locos and other teams is that way too much time is spent messing around setting up resources - in reality every team just needs some wiki pages and some structure, as you can see at wiki.ubuntu.com/SampleTeam
04:08	Seveas	jono, 404 on that page
04:09	jono	so by restricting these resources to approved teams, it means the team has spent their time getting a team built and stable and can then offer the next level of resources
04:09	jono	I want to see less time arguing about CMSs and more time *building community* and *building teams* - this is part of the plan
04:09	juliux	Seveas, perhaps jono mean this one https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/SampleTeam
04:09	Seveas	juliux, gracias
04:10	juliux	Seveas, prego
04:10	jono	sorry, yep https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/SampleTeam
</pre><pre>
04:10	jono	QUESTION : How do you plan to further the ease-of-use in terms of "out of the box" installs regarding display drivers/ network productivity (installation/finding) for the people that have swtiched from Windows, this seems to be the leap and biggest issue?
</pre><pre>
04:10	Eruantalon	QUESTION: How is Canonical/Ubuntu making sure that any translations, bugfixes and other improvements are sent upstream and shared with other distros? What is done to make sure we are not duplicating the effort?
</pre><pre>
04:10	Jucato	QUESTION: What is the concrete role of the user community in Ubuntu development or what impact does the user community have in developmennt. How does Ubuntu try to bridge the gap between the developer and user community? For example, how do developers know features that users want or don't want vs. features that developers want or don't want? On the other hand, how are users informed on reasons for some changes or design decisions? or should
04:10	boredandblogging	jono, makes sense, thanks
04:10	Jucato	users be entitled to such information in the first place?
04:10	Jucato	ugh too long.. sorry
04:11	jono	thats more of a technical, distro team question
04:11	jono	but one thing that is on my radar is to improve getting feedback from the community to developers
</pre><pre>
04:11	JohnRobert	QUESTION: What kind of questions are we meant to be asking here (seriously)
04:11	mooey	:)
04:11	jono	one thing we *really* need to fix is ensuring people test hardware support *before* release instead of installing a new ubuntu and complaining that stuff is b0rked
04:12	omegabeta	JohnRobert: not ones about re-sizing totem
</pre><pre>
04:12	jono	QUESTION: herding cats. Companies make products and as such would no doubt like to influence the direction of upstream projects. How is this possible when you cannot use power directly as in a traditional corporate hierarchy?
04:12	jono	ahh cool, a herding cats question, hope you guys like the presentation btw :)
=== Jucato still has to watch it :(
</pre><pre>
04:13	intengu	QUESTION: /part
04:13	jono	it depends on how companies want to influence upstreams - working with open source projects is the same for everyone, irrespective of whether you are a company or an individual - you need to understand the community development process - the problem with many companies is that they run in like a bull in a china shop and cause problems
04:13	Eruantalon	jono: Where is it?
04:13	jono	everyone has the potential to help upstreams, companies and individuals
04:14	Jucato	Eruantalon: http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=878
04:14	Eruantalon	Jucato: thx
04:14	jono	Eruantalon: http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=878
04:14	jono	ahh
</pre><pre>
04:14	jono	<Eruantalon> QUESTION: How is Canonical/Ubuntu making sure that any translations, bugfixes and other improvements are sent upstream and shared with other distros? What is done to make sure we are not duplicating the effort?
04:15	jono	Eruantalon: this is a distro team and Launchpad question, and I am not best to answer it - I do know that we always work to get translations, patches and fixes upstream though, but you will need to speak to the distro and launchpad teams about the specifics
04:15	dabaR	Eruantalon: #ubuntu-my
04:15	dabaR	soirry
</pre><pre>
04:15	jono	<Jucato> QUESTION: What is the concrete role of the user community in Ubuntu development or what impact does the user community have in developmennt. How does Ubuntu try to bridge the gap between the developer and user community? For example, how do developers know features that users want or don't want vs. features that developers want or don't want? On the other hand, how are users informed on reasons for some changes or design decisions? or sho
04:15	jono	uld users be entitled to such information in the first place?
04:16	Jucato	hehe sorry for the batch question :D
04:16	jono	users play a number of roles in ubuntu development:
04:16	jono	* telling developers what they want, defining needs through use statistics etc
04:16	jono	* giving feedback about ubuntu and what works and what doesnt
04:17	jono	* supporting other users via lists and forums
</pre><pre>
04:17	daviey	QUESTION: What is being done to encourage people with coding skills into development?  Currently it seems like a cold wall between user and dev
04:17	jono	I am really keen to improve the connection between ubuntu developers and users, but intelligently - we can't just ask users to tell devs what they want - devs are always inundated with cracktastic ideas
</pre><pre>
04:18	AnRkey	QUESTION: Who decides what is important and whats not when it comes to what needs to be worked on
04:18	dsas	like ponies.
04:18	AnRkey	?
04:18	Vorian	lol
04:18	AnRkey	rofl
04:18	jono	if anyone has any ideas how to improve this, do let me know - part of my role is to take your ideas and claim them as my own
=== jono laughs
04:18	Jucato	lol
</pre><pre>
04:18	jono	<JohnRobert> QUESTION: What kind of questions are we meant to be asking here (seriously)
04:19	juliux	JohnRobert, lol
=== JohnRobert isn't laughing
04:19	Jucato	herding ideas know are we? :D
04:19	jono	anything about the ubuntu community
04:19	JohnRobert	ta
04:19	omegabeta	humerously enough, i just applyed updates and i cant do anything except resize this irc window, everything else is frozen
04:19	juliux	JohnRobert, sorry
</pre><pre>
04:19	omegabeta	QUESTION : How do you plan to further the ease-of-use in terms of "out of the box" installs regarding display drivers/ network productivity (installation/finding) for the people that have swtiched from Windows, this seems to be the leap and biggest issue?
</pre><pre>
04:19	jono	<daviey> QUESTION: What is being done to encourage people with coding skills into development?  Currently it seems like a cold wall between user and dev
</pre><pre>
04:19	LoudMouthMan	QUESTION: I know id like to get more Face/presentation time from any developers willing to give it. is there a way a approved loco team could arrange this e.g IRC meetings or Local Lug or dinner events ?
04:20	jono	it is the responsibility of each team to encourage new users to join there teams, so I would like to see coder-friendly teams making an outreach effort
04:20	Jucato	omegabeta: that was answered already I think
</pre><pre>
04:20	JohnRobert	QUESTION: Alright then, is there a place where users can spew ideas that devs might look at? Rather than all over our blogs? Y'know, like 'wouldn't it be great if there was a nice gui tool for setting up number of times your ext3 fs is force checked'?
04:20	jono	this is another area where I would like to see solid best practise - ensuring that all teams know how to get new users
04:20	omegabeta	oops, my bad
</pre><pre>
04:21	jono	<AnRkey> QUESTION: Who decides what is important and whats not when it comes to what needs to be worked on
04:21	jono	this is largely a combination of community specs, which anyone can recommend, but the final word comes from the technical board
04:22	jono	sensible specs with people to do the work always have a good chance, and remember you are welcome to work on projects for future inclusion
</pre><pre>
04:22	jono	<LoudMouthMan> QUESTION: I know id like to get more Face/presentation time from any developers willing to give it. is there a way a approved loco team could arrange this e.g IRC meetings or Local Lug or dinner events ?
04:22	AnRkey	so how do i get them to understand that my poodle is going to be killed because of my pent up rage and the fact that my MX510 has no gui config available
04:22	AnRkey	:P
04:22	jono	this is always tough
04:22	daviey	RE: encourage coders into dev;  I would like to see more #ubuntu-classroom lectures - going through package building and such
04:22	dsas	jono: Though you should mention that non-canonical people can work on what they want.
04:22	jono	we already demand a lot of travel from our paid developers, and Canonical are reluctant to add any more
04:23	AnRkey	i feel cut off from devs
04:23	jono	dsas: indeed
04:23	jono	but every dev lives somewhere, and devs should be contacted directly for speaking appearances
04:23	LoudMouthMan	jono: yeah we understand I was thinking of more on the local . dev down the road opportunity.
04:23	jono	I am also available and do the odd bit of international travel
04:23	dabaR	you should have said that their contact info is on launchpad, so someone can contact them and make them an offer.
04:23	jono	LoudMouthMan: contact them directly
04:23	LoudMouthMan	but get it co-ordinated in the community.
04:23	dsas	LoudMouthMan: we have loads of them here :) I'm sure we could sort something out.
04:24	jono	dabaR: I think we can all figure out how to contact people :)
04:24	LoudMouthMan	dsas: guadec . hmmm .
04:24	jono	LoudMouthMan: you can't coordinate it when their time is so thin and its a local level
04:24	mooey	daviey, absolutly. i have the development knowledge to fix a few bugs, but more often than not i do not because i find working with packaging hugely intimidating. its way to complex.
04:24	AnRkey	jono: i would gladly pay the bounty for things like a mouse gui for 10 button mice
04:24	jono	why have a coordinated system when most devs will only travel within their locality - that would be a system without a problem
04:24	AnRkey	and even for a joystick config gui
</pre><pre>
04:24	jono	<JohnRobert> QUESTION: Alright then, is there a place where users can spew ideas that devs might look at? Rather than all over our blogs? Y'know, like 'wouldn't it be great if there was a nice gui tool for setting up number of times your ext3 fs is force checked'?
04:24	AnRkey	can i do this and if so how?
04:25	LoudMouthMan	jono : cheers
</pre><pre>
04:25	Seveas	QUESTION: Where is jono's cellphone?
04:25	JohnRobert	ANSWER: Someplace
04:25	Vorian	lol Seveas
04:26	jono	you are welcome to contact developers and share ideas, but the best place is to register specs with your ideas - remember though that ideas are not enough - if you can back an idea up with people who can work it, it becomes a real possibility
</pre><pre>
04:26	jono	<Seveas> QUESTION: Where is jono's cellphone?
04:26	jono	in a black cab somewhere in London
</pre><pre>
04:26	Seveas	err, i meant: QUESTION: what's canonicals position on having companies/foundations/etc associated with Ubuntu?
04:26	jono	although I have a new one now
04:26	jono	woo!!
04:26	jono	<Seveas> err, i meant: QUESTION: what's canonicals position on having companies/foundations/etc associated with Ubuntu?
04:26	Jucato	n73 :)
04:26	jono	Seveas: what do you mean?
</pre><pre>
04:26	Jucato	QUESTION: about communication between devs and users. do you have some ideas, even wild ones on how to do this? How about plans on gathering user feedback?
04:27	Seveas	jono, basically locoteam sponsoring
04:27	dsas	Jucato: There's the forum-ambassadors spec for one.
04:27	Jucato	is there a channel for the forum council?
04:27	Vorian	Jucato, what do you mean?
04:27	Jucato	dsas: what happened to that spec btw?
04:27	juliux	Seveas, intersting question;)
04:27	jono	Seveas: again, there is limited funding, but in reality, most locos don't need sponsoring - they just need "stuff" - CDs, t-shirts, flyers, posters etc, which we can supply some of, and they can provide the rest
</pre><pre>
04:27	AnRkey	QUESTION: Jono, could you give more info on adding specs. What kind of info or "backup" can i add to help out? I can design a gui but I can't really code it yet...
04:28	AnRkey	so add my design ideas or what
</pre><pre>
04:28	jono	<Jucato> QUESTION: about communication between devs and users. do you have some ideas, even wild ones on how to do this? How about plans on gathering user feedback?
04:28	Jucato	Vorian: a place to contact them for inquiries?
04:28	Vorian	Jucato, forums-council AT lists DOT ubuntu DOT com
04:28	Jucato	Vorian: thanks
04:28	Vorian	Jucato, np :)
04:28	jono	Jucato: I have lots of ideas :)
04:29	dsas	Jucato: It's being implemented I believe. I don't know too much about it
04:29	Jucato	hehe care to share? :)
04:29	jono	I think we need to ensure that user feedback makes sense in the scope of development
04:29	dabaR	well, he had the idea to make this meeting.
04:29	jono	let me telly you a little story as an example:
04:29	dabaR	oh, oh, story time!
04:29	Eruantalon	:-)
=== Jucato sits down and listens attentively
04:30	jono	every day my friend would get i from work, and the house would be freezing cold
04:30	jono	and every day he would get in and turn the thermostat up to full
04:30	jono	two other people I know did the same thing
</pre><pre>
04:30	daviey	QUESTION: is Canonical willing to share any more information on their business interest in Ubuntu?  Where do you envisage Canonical involvement in 5 years time?
04:30	jono	so I asked if other people did it, and everyone I know does it
04:30	dsas	jono: is that your favourite anecdote?
04:30	jono	its cold, so they bang the thermostat up to full
04:31	dsas	:)
04:31	jono	dsas: one of many
04:31	jono	banging it up to full does not make it heat up any quicker, but perception makes us do it
04:31	jono	so, everyone is wrong when using the thermostat - this shows that mass opinion is not always right
04:32	jono	what we need is intelligent feedback
04:32	jono	I am not saying only letting clever people share views, but getting those views intelligently and in a form in which our devs can use
04:32	Jucato	true... but devs usually have a very high standard for what's intelligent feedback...
04:32	dabaR	which is good
04:32	jono	Jucato: yes, but devs don't want to read 150 emails every day with ideas
04:33	daviey	Jucato, isn't there where bug triage's come in?
04:33	Jucato	I mean, from a user's perspective/knowledge, that's the only truth he knows...
04:33	jono	what they want is a list of ideas that are (a) doable (b) considered and (c) practical for ubuntu
04:33	jono	the biggest problem here is that user feedback is largely randomised - and we need to organise and present it effectively to developers
</pre><pre>
04:33	jono	<AnRkey> QUESTION: Jono, could you give more info on adding specs. What kind of info or "backup" can i add to help out? I can design a gui but I can't really code it yet...
04:34	Jucato	that's the hard part :)
04:34	jono	specs are registered at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/
04:34	jono	they should be detailed descriptions of a feature, how it would work, what work is required to implement it eg
04:35	jono	etc, rahter
04:35	jono	rather
04:35	jono	each spec has a wiki page associated with it
04:35	jono	that is where the spec should be fleshed out
04:35	AnRkey	jono: whould holding poodles for ransom until my demands for a mouse gui are met work?
04:35	jono	we encourage the community to register specs, and these are discussed at the ubuntu developer summit
04:36	jono	AnRkey: poodle abuse is not a good technique
04:36	Eruantalon	AnRkey: Do you really have a mouse with 10 buttons?
04:36	AnRkey	brb counting
04:36	jono	AnRkey: but a detailed spec with how it would work, be designed and some efforts in finding developers to hack on it would do wonders :)
04:36	AnRkey	8 buttons
04:36	jono	right, out of questions
04:36	jono	anything else?
04:36	AnRkey	2 extra functions
04:36	AnRkey	wheelup and wheeldown
04:36	AnRkey	10 total functions
04:37	AnRkey	and i USE them all
04:37	Eruantalon	wow
</pre><pre>
04:37	daviey	QUESTION: is Canonical willing to share any more information on their business interest in Ubuntu?  Where do you envisage Canonical involvement in 5 years time?
04:37	AnRkey	in linux i use 7 of them
</pre><pre>
04:37	jono	<daviey> QUESTION: is Canonical willing to share any more information on their business interest in Ubuntu?  Where do you envisage Canonical involvement in 5 years time?
04:37	AnRkey	Eruantalon: get an mx510 or 518 from logitech and see for yourself
04:37	AnRkey	i am in love with these mice
04:38	AnRkey	they make me feel wark when i get the latest version :D
04:38	jono	AnRkey: can you take the discussion elsewhere
04:38	jono	cheers
04:38	AnRkey	jono: sorry
04:38	frafu	maybe there should be a chart with all the ideas and a little description of their status (rejected, adopted, unconsidered yet,...). The users with new ideas could consult the chart to see whether it really is a new idea
04:38	jono	the interests are largely what you see - developing ubuntu, providing support and business services, working with other companies to support ubuntu, hardware relationships etc
04:38	jono	there is no devious or secret plan, at least that I am aware of :P
04:38	Eruantalon	jono: That'
04:39	Eruantalon	s because you're not inner circle yet!
04:39	jono	its always about making ubuntu a product that we can derive revenue from
</pre><pre>
04:39	AnRkey	QUESTION: what about a comunity voting system for working out each specs importance?
04:39	jono	Eruantalon: hehe, I am pretty close to the center and its all good :)
</pre><pre>
04:39	jono	<AnRkey> QUESTION: what about a comunity voting system for working out each specs importance?
04:39	daviey	jono, i appreciate there is no devious plan - i believe that.  But surely Canonical can't afford to fund it forever
04:40	jono	AnRkey: thats a popularity contest and its not the spirit of free software - you could get one spec called "Death To All Kittens with KDeath in Kubuntu" and get 5000 wackos to support it and it goes in
04:40	jono	specs and ideas should go in based on merit and the direction of ubuntu
04:40	jono	daviey: sure, we need to be a profitable company, and Canonical has hired a business team to develop these services - training, OEM, ISV, business services, support etc
04:41	daviey	jono, thaank you
</pre><pre>
04:41	AnRkey	QUESTION: how is the comminity involved in the choices for which spec to work on and how important it is?
04:41	jono	we offer the typical linux distro services,  but there is a lot of work in getting that infrastructure up and running
04:41	jono	part of my work is to always ensure the link between Canonical <--> Community is clear
04:41	jono	daviey: np :)
</pre><pre>
04:41	jono	<AnRkey> QUESTION: how is the comminity involved in the choices for which spec to work on and how important it is?
04:42	jono	AnRkey: each community member works on what they want to - they decide is fun and interesting and work on it
04:42	jono	any other questions?
04:42	AnRkey	jono: so i need to inspire a dev to work on it then ? :)
04:43	daviey	AnRkey, write up the spec, draw a sketch and see what happens
04:43	jono	AnRkey: write a detail spec about how you would like it to work, and what work needs doing and then go out there and encourage someone to work on it :)
04:43	jono	AnRkey: look at the existing specs
04:43	jono	to see how it works
04:43	Jucato	AnRkey: usually. you either find someone who has the same itch as you, or scratch it yourself eventually :)
</pre><pre>
04:43	daviey	QUESTION: Would the council consider bounty projects, through launchpad, with the proceeds going to ubuntu
04:43	AnRkey	jono: thanks for your time, i hope i was not too annoying
04:44	jono	of course not AnRkey :)
</pre><pre>
04:44	jono	<daviey> QUESTION: Would the council consider bounty projects, through launchpad, with the proceeds going to ubuntu
04:44	jono	bounties from who?
04:45	daviey	users
04:45	Jucato	rich users...
04:45	jono	right
04:45	daviey	ie AnRkey wants something and is willing to give say $1 - it would help
</pre><pre>
04:45	Eruantalon	QUESTION: Has it occured to Canonical that if you are really succesful in making Ubuntu a great distro then you will have trouble making money of support...(Hmm ironically my computer chrashed while writing this question)
04:45	jono	not a question for me really, thats a decision for the Launchpad and technical board - I don't see a problem myself though - don;t we support bounties for products in LP?
</pre><pre>
04:45	AnRkey	QUESTION: OK last one... Can I sponsor a bounty? So choose a spec and pay it's bounty on behalf of the community?
</pre><pre>
04:45	jono	<Eruantalon> QUESTION: Has it occured to Canonical that if you are really succesful in making Ubuntu a great distro then you will have trouble making money of support...(Hmm ironically my computer chrashed while writing this question)
04:46	jono	Eruantalon: haha, thats always the problem, but no vendor in the world has made software that easy to use - there will always be support requirements
</pre><pre>
04:46	jono	<AnRkey> QUESTION: OK last one... Can I sponsor a bounty? So choose a spec and pay it's bounty on behalf of the community?
04:46	jono	AnRkey: sure, anyone can set a bounty :)
04:46	jono	ok I think we are done
04:46	jono	seems like all the questions are in :)
04:46	AnRkey	ok outa here
04:46	AnRkey	thanks again :)
04:46	Jucato	that was fast :)
04:47	jono	this community Q+A will be a monthly meeting
04:47	AnRkey	ta
04:47	GazzaK	thanks jono, good meeting \o/
=== Jucato will keep tabs on the schedules :)
04:47	Eruantalon	same time and place?
04:47	mooey	thank you, jono
04:47	JosefK	good timing on my behalf ^^
04:47	Jucato	thanks jono!!
04:47	jono	thanks all :)
</pre>
