{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
05:02	BenC	ok, hello everyone
05:02	BenC	This is the Ubuntu Kernel Team meeting, our agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting
05:03	BenC	Unfortunately, Kyle and Tim are at UbuntuLive and wont be attending, which shortens our agenda quite a bit
05:04	BenC	A few highlights of recent things we've been working on include UME kernel (amitk), and liveCD memory issues (pkl)
05:05	BenC	amitk: would you care to elaborate on some of the work you're doing with UME, and plans for power management improvements?
05:06	BenC	ah, amit has lost connection :)
05:07	BenC	While he's regaining that connection...any questions from community folks?
05:07	zul	not me
05:07	zul	I didnt prepare anything at least
05:07	BenC	this is going to be a short meeting, so we'll have time for this sort of thing :)
05:08	zul	oh yeah ill try to get to vserver this week what about openvz?
05:08	ScottK	Would anyone be willing to work on kernel bug triage while we wait?
05:09	BenC	zul: openvz looks like it may miss the gutsy release, but we are discussing possibilities with them
05:09	zul	ok
05:09	BenC	they are still based on 2.6.20 kernel, and the reject list is huge against 2.6.22
05:10	zul	and im not touching it ;)
05:10	amitk_	I dropped out...
05:10	BenC	ScottK: you're more than welcome to do that at any time :)
05:11	BenC	amitk: saw that on the other server...we were just discussing some open topics, but I had wondered if you wanted to give an update on UME and/or power savings work in gutsy
05:11	ScottK	BenC: Unfortunately for me, when it comes to the kernel, I'm more of a triagee than a triager.
05:12	BenC	ScottK: heh, a good time for that is bug days, in which we'll have a kernel team person actively helping and working on kernel bugs
05:13	ScottK	Sure.  Just thought maybe it would be a target of opportunity while waiting.  No problem.
05:13	amitk_	nothing big really - UME kernels seem to work on the menlow platform
05:13	amitk_	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/power-management-in-ubuntu has been modified to be more focused for gutsy
05:14	amitk_	and I am now working on splitting up the test cases for laptop-testing group in order to revive it
05:14	BenC	excellent, the laptop testing sounds really promising
05:15	BenC	amitk: have you contacted heno about the test infrastructure yet?
05:15	amitk_	no I haven't. I will do that right away
05:16	BenC	hopefully they've been working on the backend already, and it will just be a matter of plugging in the explanations and reporting procedures that you come up with
05:16	BenC	pkl_: you've been tasked with livecd memory usage problems, and with virtualization (mainly xen)...how's that coming?
05:17	amitk_	I would also like to put out a call for volunteers to do some powertop hacking (www.linuxpowertop.org)
05:17	pkl_	BenC: currently suspended, looking at the critical #126964 bug.
05:18	pkl_	That's the liveCD corruption and hang bug.
05:18	BenC	ah, right
05:18	pkl_	The hang I traced last week to a race I put into Squashfs in April.  Fixed.
05:18	BenC	been able to point the blame at anything specific yet?
05:19	BenC	good, nice work
05:19	pkl_	The corruption bug is much rarer, but very nasty.
05:20	pkl_	Unfortunately the available debug info proved impossible to track this down.
05:20	BenC	pkl_: would this benefit from crashdump?
05:20	BenC	I could probably write up something, and create an ISO which can handle crashdumps capturing
05:21	pkl_	I have put in a lot more non-invasive (i.e. no spewing rubbish to dmesg) logging via a psedo file (debugfs), and got some good debug info yesterday,
05:22	pkl_	I believe I know the execeptional set of circumstances which cause the bug.  It looks like an undiscovered race condition in the Squashfs fragment cache code.
=== neversfelde|mobi [n=neversfe@82.113.106.1] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:22	BenC	ok, if you need more extensive testing, would be good to talk heno about putting out a call for that
05:22	BenC	otherwise, keep up the good work you're already doing
05:22	pkl_	Debugging is currently ongoing.
05:23	pkl_	Yeah, I've been up to 6am most nights..
05:23	pkl_	As it's Squashfs I have a vested interest in fixing it, and a certain responsibility :)
05:24	BenC	pkl_: sleep becomes a luxury at times :)
05:25	BenC	Well, unless there's some other topics people want discussed, this meeting is at an end
05:25	BenC	I'll give a short pause from the chair...
05:26	BenC	And, that's it folks :)
05:27	BenC	thanks everyone, have a good week and so you all in two weeks for the next meeting
</pre>
