{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   11:00 Seveas         Kamion, any sign of the rest of the CC yet?
   11:00 highvoltage    not as far as i'm aware
   === ploum [n=ploum@ubuntu/member/ploum] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:01 ploum          Hello DecIRC and all belgians :-)
   11:01 Cassidy        hi ploum !
   === raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:01 DecIRC         Hello ploum and everybody.
   11:02 bstqc_ostl     hello,everyone!I am Victor.
   11:02 highvoltage    hi Victor.
   11:02 lifeless       Hi Victor, I'm robert, and I'm a code junkie
   11:02 Seveas         c'est un ploum - run while you can
   11:02 bstqc_ostl     hi:highvoltage,Hi,lifeless
   11:03 ploum          Seveas: hehe ;-)
   11:03 nictuku        hi all :-)
   11:03 bstqc_ostl     nice to meet you all :-)
   11:03 dholbach       hi bstqc_ostl :-)
   11:04 nictuku        my friends seems to be sleeping. I wonder if I should remove my name from the agenda hehe
   11:04 akulah         hello!
   11:04 akulah         all
   11:04 bstqc_ostl     hi,dholback.I have waiting for this moment for a long time!
   11:04 dholbach       bstqc_ostl: I know. I just hope the Community Council turns up soon.
   11:05 thesaltydog    ciao dholbach !
   === imtheface [n=sueisfin@202.153.242.37] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:05 lifeless       piongs are progressing
   11:07 lifeless       Kamion: are you trying to reach anyone ?
   11:08 imtheface      hi all
   === zakame [n=zakame@ubuntu/member/zakame] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:09 nictuku        hi imtheface!
   11:09 zakame         hi all
   === zakame is ZakElep
   11:09 highvoltage    hi zakame
   11:10 zakame         hello highvoltage
   11:10 Seveas         (I am at a lecture right now and am the TA - so I may be unresponsive at times)
   11:12 lifeless       I'm betting they are confused because of TZ change last weekend. Or something.
   11:13 nictuku        or maybe because traditionally the meetings are on tuesdays
   11:16 DanielFaulknor how many people are missing?
   === Seveaz [n=seveas@ubuntu/member/seveas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:19 Kamion         shit, sorry, I slept in
   11:19 highvoltage    shouldn't sabdfl be here? i see he's in -devel.
   11:19 lifeless       Kamion: you're the only one here so far :{
   11:19 Seveaz         mornin' Kamion
   === sabdfl [n=mark@ubuntu/member/pdpc.silver.sabdfl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:19 sabdfl         sorry all
   11:19 Seveas         mornin' mark
   11:20 highvoltage    morning sabdfl :)
   11:20 sabdfl         morning
   11:20 lifeless       morning
   11:20 zakame         hello sabdfl
   11:20 ploum          'morning ...
   11:21 imtheface      afternoon here! :)
   === ploum just think is a fish in "The meaning of life" :-D
   11:21 sabdfl         where are we on the agenda?
   === iceman [n=iceman@physInfo-mac26.ulb.ac.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:21 Kamion         we aren't
   11:21 DecIRC         good morning sabdfl
   11:21 sabdfl         hi kamion, do we have quorum?
   11:21 lifeless       you have 2 so far
   11:21 Kamion         sabdfl: you and me so far
   11:21 lifeless       claire is phoning elmo
   11:21 sabdfl         elmo's on EST
   11:21 bstqc_ostl     hello,sabdfl
   11:21 Kamion         elmo said last time he'd get up if he needed to
   11:22 sabdfl         he's getting up
   11:22 Seveas         claire is waking the beast ;)
   === elmo [n=james@83-216-156-21.jamest747.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:23 sabdfl         morning
   11:23 sabdfl         Kamion: do you want to put the quorum idea forward as a suggestion?
   === silbs [n=jane@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:24 Kamion         the TB consider == 50% to be quorum, whereas we require > 50%
   11:25 Kamion         perhaps we should move into sync with them for smaller issues so that we don't have so many quorum problems
   11:25 sabdfl         that's fine by me with CC for memebrships, loco, issues that don't involve a change of policy
   11:25 sabdfl         elmo?
   11:26 elmo           umm, I'm not thrilled by the idea - I mean, have we actually cancelled more than one meeting because of quorum issues?
   11:26 sabdfl         not that i'm aware. seveas?
   11:26 Seveas         no, but the decisions were delayed
   11:27 Seveas         there always have been 3 out of 4 votes
   11:27 elmo           I realise the whole last minute phoning to get quorum thing is less than ideal, but OTOH, I think things like membership sometimes benefit from a wider coverage of CC staff
   11:27 elmo           IMHO
   11:27 Seveas         one exception: when a few community members got to vote since sabdfl had to leave
   11:28 elmo           so, err like, -0.5 from me or something
   11:28 Seveas         Maybe having an extra CC member will help
   11:28 Seveas         then 3 out of 5 should be around instead of 3 out of 4
   11:29 sabdfl         agreed
   11:29 Kamion         we have had to process memberships and wait for a third member to ack them later, a few times
   11:29 Kamion         I take elmo's point though
   11:29 sabdfl         we might grow an AsiaPac council member to help with timezones too, right now we cover americas and europe well
   11:30 sabdfl         will take that under consideration
   11:30 Seveas         with my sleeping rhythm I cover all timezones ;)
   11:30 sabdfl         let's hold off on the quorum == 50% thing for now
   11:30 sabdfl         and get started on today's agenda
   11:31 sabdfl         highvoltage: you behind the edubuntu loco idea?
   11:31 sabdfl         want to tell us a bit about it?
   11:31 highvoltage    sabdfl: yes
   11:31 highvoltage    thank you
   11:31 highvoltage    Hi Ubuntu Community Council
   11:31 highvoltage    I don't expect a final answer on this now, but I would certainly appreciate your input on this.
   11:31 highvoltage    We have received a request from an Italian community member (Andrea Veri) to start an Edubuntu loco team.
   11:32 highvoltage    He's already quite active, especially with regards to Edubuntu Advocacy in his surrounding areas, speaking to different schools about the benefits of Edubuntu in schools.
   11:32 highvoltage    We don't currently have Edubuntu loco teams, and we're wondering if it's wise to split loco teams into Edubuntu and Ubuntu loco teams, since Italy already has a loco team.
   11:32 highvoltage    There are good reasons, imo, ot have a seperate team, and to keep it as one group.
   11:32 highvoltage    What it comes down to, is, having split groups will mean that theres overlap in goals, and possible duplication of work. On the other side, I can understand why someone would want an Edubuntu specific team, that focusses on schools and their needs specifically.
   11:32 highvoltage    The best solution for this I could think of, is to have them seperate, but still integrated.
   11:32 highvoltage    So you might have an Edubuntu loco in your country, but it is still part of the bigger loco team. And perhaps there should be some policy to say that the bigger loco should accept the smaller interest-specific groups into the bigger team.
   11:32 highvoltage    Those are just the lines I thought along, but we would just like to see what's best for the Edubuntu community. Any thoughts on this from CC?
   11:33 Seveas         How about an edubuntu subteam in the existing locoteam, just like the edubuntu team is a subteam of Ubuntu ?
   11:33 sabdfl         the advantage is - folks get to focus on the thing they are passionate about
   11:33 sabdfl         edubuntu may diverge in future, if it gets sufficient mass and theres a need to do so
   11:33 highvoltage    yep
   11:34 sabdfl         the disadvantage is there is an opportunity for unhealthy rivalry
   11:34 highvoltage    some people are very specific in what they'd like to do with schools, and some people more specifically, have a bigger educational focus
   11:34 elmo           with the increasing number of derivatives, I worry about scalability problems with entirely separate groups - I'd prefer we try subgroups or other solutions in the first instance until we come up with a clear need/use case for entirely separate groups?
   11:34 sabdfl         say, for example, two guys in a loco team don't get on, one goes off to start the "edubuntu" loco team, but in reality it's just an excuse to demarcate turf
   11:35 sabdfl         we already do have multiple overlapping loco teams, like country teams and city teams
   11:35 sabdfl         so i don't actually have a problem with this at all
   11:35 sabdfl         unless its abused to fuel factionism
   11:35 highvoltage    perhaps there should be some kind of policy for loco teams, that they have to work together with other, more specific loco teams, at least to a degree (and where there's overlap)
   11:35 Seveas         sabdfl, indeed. If the teams cooperate, any structure will do.
   11:37 highvoltage    if this is the way to go (having an edubuntu loco), should the edubuntu loco team go through the same approval process as an ubuntu loco team?
   11:37 sabdfl         how about we say yes, and see what happens? i expect we will have kubuntu loco teams soon too
   11:37 sabdfl         highvoltage: yes, definitely
   === Lure [n=lure@external-7.hermes.si] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:37 highvoltage    great.
   11:38 highvoltage    is CC okay that we do this? we can add the Italian loco team to the list for the next CC meeting then?
   11:38 sabdfl         elmo: w.r.t. use cases, we do have some guys wanting a team focused on edubuntu already
   11:38 sabdfl         we should have some sort of "principle of least interference"
   11:39 sabdfl         which suggests that, unless we have a CoC type issue, community members who want to organise in a particular way should get the freedom to try it
   11:39 lifeless       Ubuntu's Prime Directive ?
   11:40 sabdfl         unless its because of social problems, in which case we need to climb in and resolve those
   11:40 sabdfl         (i.e. the forum forking discussion)
   11:40 elmo           *shrug*
   11:40 elmo           ok
   11:40 Seveas         lifeless, ubuntu's prime directive is the CoC
   11:41 lifeless       Seveas: I was being humourous, sorry.
   11:41 Kamion         I have the same scalability issues as elmo for the record; Edubuntu does seem to have a good use case for being separate, but I can't see a good use case for Kubuntu in the same way
   11:41 highvoltage    lifeless: and that counts for edubuntu, kubuntu, and xubuntu as well
   11:41 lifeless       Seveas: 'principle of non interference'
   11:41 Kamion         in that Edubuntu is going out and talking to a very very different set of people
   11:41 highvoltage    Kamion: i agree with you there.
   11:41 Kamion         whereas Kubuntu is just "people who like KDE", which is a whole lot more nebulous
   11:41 Kamion         likewise Xubuntu
   11:42 zakame         hmm increasing granularity
   11:42 sabdfl         people do get quite passionate about the whole kde / gnome thing, though :-)
   11:42 highvoltage    kubuntu, xubuntu and ubuntu are really pretty much the same in terms of users, target market, etc. while edubuntu has some very distinct differences there.
   11:42 sabdfl         i think people will generally be more energetic if they feel they can associate with the parts of the "ubuntu project" which most closely aligns with their own interests
   11:43 Seveas         sabdfl, definitely
   === jsgotangco [n=jsg@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:43 elmo           sabdfl: right, but unless the teams cooperate, there's going to be a lot of duplicated/wasted effort
   11:43 elmo           (but OTOH, I get your non-interference thing, so I'm just saying)
   11:43 elmo           I mean there's a reason ubuntu, kubuntu, xubuntu etc. all share the same archive
   11:43 highvoltage    elmo: couldn't that be fixed on policy level, so that teams know they're not supposed to "compete"?
   11:44 sabdfl         elmo: how about we make it clear that we are all in this together and specialisation is not the same as competition?
   11:44 Seveas         sabdfl, sounds like a nice amendment for the CoC
   11:44 sabdfl         i think having a strong edubuntu team in a city is a big help to the ubuntu loco team, for example
   11:44 elmo           sure, that'd be good
   11:45 sabdfl         as long as they don't compete and trashtalk one another
   11:45 highvoltage    members who do that should be dismissed, imho
   11:45 sabdfl         i can think of one bad scenario, say, where a school district wants to deploy ubuntu, and is looking for contractors, and members of those teams start competing for the work
   11:46 sabdfl         talking down ubuntu / edubuntu as a proxy for competing for the funding
   11:46 thesaltydog    one solution could be to consider edubuntu loco a branch of the ubuntu LoCoTeam..
   11:46 sabdfl         could equally well happen with kubuntu
   11:46 highvoltage    sabdfl: an answer to that might be, that they should start another team for commercial work, and that the loco group is for community work. or does that go against how things are currently set up?
   11:47 sabdfl         ultimately, it's the underlying people and how they feel that matter
   === jsgotangco peeks
   11:47 sabdfl         let's deal with those sorts of issues when they arise, and just resolve to say we expect the highest standard of collaboration between all ubuntu loco teams, regardless of their particular focus, whether its regional, or vertical
   11:48 sabdfl         is there an obvious loco team guidelines page we could amend to that effect?
   11:48 highvoltage    that sounds good. could almost be copied and pasted in CoC just as you wrote it there :)
   === kbrooks [n=kbrooks@unaffiliated/kbrooks] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   11:48 Seveas         sabdfl, LocoTeamRunning perhaps
   11:49 Kamion         urk, hope we don't have to amend the CoC again. :)
   === Kamion idly notes that after kiko pestering him enthusiastically for CoC 1.0.1, launchpad still only shows CoC 1.0
   11:50 highvoltage    there's https://wiki.edubuntu.org/LoCoTeamHowto and https://wiki.edubuntu.org/LoCoTeams, which might benefit from the ammendment
   11:50 Seveas         Kamion, in that case: skip 1.0.1 and jump to 1.1 immediately with these amendments
   11:50 elmo           Kamion: oh, I can fix that
   11:50 Kamion         I sent a copy to launchpad@ a while ago if you want to fish it out of there
   11:51 lifeless       Kamion: doh. I forgot there was a 1.0.1, I've still only signed 1.0.
   11:51 elmo           yeah, I still have it ticked in my launchpad mail folder in case it got lost
   11:51 Kamion         lifeless: it's just typographical corrections, don't worry about it
   11:51 lifeless       Kamion: ok.
   11:52 Kamion         ok, are we done with this agenda point?
   11:52 Kamion         if so, let's move on to the Belgian locoteam
   11:53 ploum          Hello :-)
   11:53 highvoltage    from my side, I'm okay with it. I will ask Andrea to add the edubuntu-loco-it team agenda item to the next CC meeting.
   === Kamion is planning to disassemble his laptop this morning and can't do so until we finish the meeting :)
   11:53 ploum          (ok belgians, let's go to sing our song !)
   11:53 Cassidy        hi :)
   11:53 Cassidy        ploum: the one about bear and frites ?
   11:53 DecIRC         hi
   11:53 Cassidy        beer ;)
   11:53 Seveas         hello belgian team
   11:53 JanC           hi
   11:54 sabdfl         hey guys
   === Seveas hands the microphone to ploum
   11:54 ploum          So we are a small country with many differents languages
   11:54 ploum          But a big team :-)
   11:54 ploum          We have worked on a Ubuntu-be guideline for quite some weeks : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam
   11:55 ploum          Then we had a meeting at FOSDEM (with jdub)
   11:55 ploum          We want to promote Ubuntu locally, not to create yet another forum-wiki-support website
   11:56 ploum          Our first big goal is a very commercial looking website for the Dapper release and a Dapper party where we will invite the community and the press
   11:57 ploum          ATM, we have a mailing list with 69 members, and we are speaking a mix of french-dutch-english all the time
   11:58 ploum          In fact, we also have the secret goal to show that Belgian people can still do thing together, regardless of their language
   11:58 ploum          (this is a big problem in Belgium)
   === Ubugtu_1 [n=bugbot@81.171.100.21] has joined #Ubuntu-meeting
   11:58 elmo           (ploum: btw, it's not relevant to this process, but I saw some (less than constructive) criticism of the Dutch in your ubuntu-be announce post - you might want to get a native speaker to look over any future multi-lingual posts?)
   11:59 Kamion         (ok, in fact I do need to take my laptop down for disassembly now. I'll still be following along, just a little more slowly
   11:59 Kamion         )
   12:00 ploum          elmo: ?  I don't remember that
   12:00 sabdfl         ok, thanks ploum
   12:00 JanC           elmo: you mean on ubunu-announce ?
   12:00 sabdfl         anything we can do to help out at this stage?
   12:00 ploum          sabdfl: yes
   12:00 sabdfl         go ahead
   12:00 ploum          In order to work on the website and promotionnal flyer, we want to be sure we can use ubuntu-be.org
   12:00 ploum          http://ubuntu.carolinux.be/ : the first draft of the website we are working on (content is mostly in french I think)
   12:02 Seveas         quite empty draft ;)
   12:03 ploum          Seveas: yes, we have not yet putted the content in the website..
   12:03 jsgotangco     heh
   12:03 sabdfl         i've no problem with ubuntu-be.org.
   12:03 ploum          and we have to translate all
   12:03 DecIRC         Seveas, it is less empty if you choose "Je parle Franais" in place of "I speak English"
   12:03 sabdfl         ploum: probably best to be conservative with the number of pages, since everything has to happen three times
   12:03 Seveas         you can pull dutch translations from ubuntu-nl.org ;)
   12:04 ploum          sabdfl: that's indeed our goal. (and people don't read much more thant 4 pages anyway)
   12:04 sabdfl         elmo: what's the process for pointing an ubuntu-xx.org domain at a loco server?
   12:04 JanC           I will look at the translations in Dutch  ;-)
   12:04 elmo           sabdfl: it's still managed by smurfix
   12:04 elmo           well the DNS
   12:04 elmo           the loco servers are done by heno
   12:04 sabdfl         ok, ploum, ask smurfix to point at your server, and off you go
   12:04 elmo           err, kind of
   12:05 sabdfl         anything else, or can we get to the members?
   12:05 ploum          thanks sabdfl :-)
   12:05 DecIRC         dears, I'm the technical responsible for the hosting of this site on my dedicated server. So you can either point the A record to the ip of the server of define it as primary dns
   12:05 sabdfl         DecIRC: chat with smurfix
   12:05 ploum          sabdfl: thanks for your time.
   12:05 sabdfl         ok, members, members, members!
   12:06 Cassidy        thanks for your support guys !
   === sabdfl tries to impersonate sballmer. Developers! Developers! nevermind
   12:06 dholbach       hahaha :)
   12:06 lifeless       throw a chair!
   12:06 DecIRC         sabdfl, and others, thanks for ... everything :)
   12:06 sabdfl         yer welcome
   12:06 sabdfl         lifeless: you're up
   12:06 lifeless       hiya
   12:06 JanC           lifeless: throwing chairs at people is against the CoC  ;)
   12:06 elmo           -2
   12:07 lifeless       so, I'd like to become a MOTU
   12:07 elmo           oh wait, is it not time to vote for lifeless yet? ;-)
   12:07 lifeless       elmo: thanks!
   12:07 Simira         haha, isn't lifeless a member yet?
   12:07 highvoltage    JanC: unless it's a chaire made out of cake!
   12:07 lifeless       I've setup all the wiki pages and documentation the newmembers process requests
   12:07 lifeless       https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RobertCollins
   12:08 lifeless       and I've been hanging out and helping in #ubuntu-motu from nearly when it started
   12:09 ajmitch        & he's been quite helpful there too
   12:09 lifeless       sorry for the lag there, finding my description  to paste
   12:09 lifeless       I work for Canonical coordinating the combination of Bazaar-NG and Launchpad (which we hope will provide a fantastic feedback loop to any community using Bazaar-NG), and am a Quality-Czar - I rove between Bazaar-NG, Launchpad and Ubuntu providing input (and Code!), aiming to make it easier to make high quality creations across all our efforts.
   12:09 sivang         sabdfl: ah ah ah!
   12:09 sabdfl         lifeless: do you think your testing stuff will land in the distro, or be more LP-ish?
   12:09 lifeless       sabdfl: I want to do some work on the deb testing project
   12:09 sabdfl         ok
   12:09 lifeless       I think its very under-potential at the moment
   12:10 sabdfl         can you point to some ubuntu-specific contributions you've made over the past year or two?
   12:10 sivang         lifeless: referring to automating testing framework by Ian?
   12:10 lifeless       sivang: yes
   12:10 sabdfl         (fwiw folks, Robert Collins was is the longest-running Canonical dude)
   12:10 sabdfl         was is
   12:10 sabdfl         nice :-)
   12:10 lifeless       sabdfl: sure. more recently - https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/pornview/+bug/2397
   12:10 lifeless       a patch for pornview
   === JaneW [n=JaneW@dsl-146-191-135.telkomadsl.co.za] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:10 elmo           ...
   12:10 sabdfl         can't believe you took that bait :-)
   12:10 lifeless       :)
   12:11 sabdfl         ok, +1 from me
   12:11 lifeless       hey, a chance to get porn in the meeting log ?
   12:11 dholbach       . o O { based on the pornview patch }
   12:11 sivang         heh
   12:11 jsgotangco     my hero!
   12:11 sabdfl         dholbach: i feel every bug
   12:11 dholbach       haha :-)
   === dholbach hugs sabdfl
   12:11 Kamion         I've got no problem with lifeless obviously, particularly if it gets more people paying attention to autotesting
   12:12 sabdfl         ok, 2/3
   12:12 Kamion         he's made plenty of contributions on/off over the years
   12:12 elmo           well, lifeless was going to be +2 from me, but he loses a point for wasting time on pornview.  so +1
   12:12 sabdfl         4/3 then :-)
   12:12 lifeless       thanks guys!
   12:13 nictuku        congratulations :-)
   12:13 sabdfl         elmo: don't foist your taste for ascii art on us here
   12:13 sabdfl         "britney"
   12:13 ogra           congrats lifeless :)
   12:13 sivang         congrets lifeless !
   12:13 sabdfl         nictuku: i think you're up next
   12:14 freeflying     lifeless: congrats
   12:14 nictuku        thank you.
   12:14 nictuku        i'm afraid none of my friends showed up - only MarioMeyer (Meyer) but he seems to be asleep (07:00AM here), but i'll try it anyway ;-).
   12:14 nictuku        I'm Yves Junqueira, a 24 years old Python hacker. I live in Braslia, Brazil, and work a sysadmin and python developer in a Federal Government Ministry, although being graduated in International Relations. I've founded #ubuntu-br in circa december/2004 and I code and package some cool software: nwu - Network Wide Updates - and python-sysinfo. Nwu is based on a spec by mvo. Since january/2005 I've been  dedicating many daily hours of free tim
   12:14 nictuku        e to the project so we can have a tool similar to RedHat's RHN and Microsoft's SUS, but GPL. I administer a few dozen servers and I know how helpful a software that handles packages installation and upgrades automatically could be. With the help of MarioMeyer, a good friend, I'm also working on packaging nwu and the required python-sysinfo and they are both in revu.  The history of changes is linked in the profile. These have been months of t
   12:14 nictuku        ruly hard work and lots of love for Ubuntu :-).Besides wanting to work even harder on nwu - specially making a cool PyGTK interface -, I want to keep helping the Ubuntu-BR LoCoTeam any way I can, either contributing to the planet or helping users on the IRC channel. If I'm honored with the Ubuntu Member status, though, my voice will be lowder I'll be able to spread even more ubuntu love (and installations) to the government agencies, in which
   12:14 nictuku        Ubuntu already has a great market share. Thanks :-)
   12:15 sabdfl         wow, that's a great contribution!
   12:15 sabdfl         what do you think of the revu process?
   12:16 sabdfl         how could we make it better?
   12:16 nictuku        thank you. I think it's great already, although maybe if non-motu could also write unofficial reviewes, that would be great.
   12:17 sabdfl         we are keen to extend revu to main as well, in dapper+1 timeframe
   12:17 nictuku        I really would like to become a MOTU sometime, by the way.
   12:17 dholbach       nictuku: that's great to hear.
   12:17 nictuku        dholbach, thanks
   12:18 dholbach       i see, you're hanging around in #ubuntu-motu already. :-)
   12:18 ogra           what will python-sysinfo gain us over hal and its hardware data ? is there added value a later hwdb client ycould use ?
   12:18 sivang         sabdfl: for every package or just new packages ?
   12:19 nictuku        dholbach, yes, despite in my time zone and the time I have to be on IRC doesn't match with most european members :-(
   12:19 sabdfl         ok  +1 for Yves from me, based on sustained work on nwu at https://dev.ubuntubrasil.org/trac/nwu/timeline?daysback=180
   12:19 sabdfl         sivang: every package
   12:19 sabdfl         to make community contributions to main smoother
   12:19 sabdfl         but ore on that another time
   12:20 Seveas         sabdfl, cool
   12:20 sabdfl         will be, i think :-)
   12:20 nictuku        hal wouldn't provide all data we need. It's abstraction for the packaging system, not only for hardware.
   12:20 sivang         sabdfl: nice
   12:20 Kamion         +1 on nictuku based on plenty of nwu work etc. and a good thoughtful wiki page
   12:20 Seveas         nictuku, there are many ubuntu-br members who already applied for membership. Why did you wait so long?
   12:20 ogra           nictuku, so could hwdb benefit from it ?
   === wold [n=wold@ev-217-129-81-225.netvisao.pt] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:21 nictuku        Seveas, I really didn't know if my contributions  was relevant.. I don't do much translation and bug report (low karma on LP, you see..)
   12:21 ogra           (it needs more data than hal offers actually, i'd love to have one unique HW info backend :) )
   12:22 nictuku        ogra, it's more like the opposite. python-sysinfo is dumb, it's more like a parser.
   12:22 ogra           ah
   12:22 nictuku        but it does aggregates a lot of information from different sources
   12:22 elmo           ack
   12:22 sabdfl         ok! welcome aboard
   12:22 nictuku        currently it uses lshw to collect hardware info, for example.
   12:22 nictuku        :-)
   12:22 Seveas         nictuku, congratz!
   12:22 sladen         the karma system could benefit on 'external plugins'  (eg. mailing posts to lists.ubuntu.com, or posts on ubuntoforums.org)
   12:22 sabdfl         approved in lp
   12:23 nictuku        you guys have no idea how happy I am. Thank you very much!
   12:23 sabdfl         sladen: +1
   12:23 ogra           ah :) cool
   12:23 ogra           i'll look at it once the package is in :)
   12:23 sabdfl         would be very useful to get mailman and forums into the karma infrastructure
   12:23 sabdfl         we'll get uploads, reviews etc in due course too
   12:23 ogra           nictuku, congrats btw :)
   12:23 Mithrandir     sabdfl: trivial to do for mailman, at least.
   12:23 Seveas         eyequeue seems to be missing
   12:23 dholbach       congratulations nictuku
   12:24 nictuku        even then my karma would still be low, as I'm basically a "upstream coder".
   12:24 elmo           yes, but not by integrating into mailman
   12:24 sabdfl         eyequeue's not around
   12:24 Seveas         imtheface is
   12:24 elmo           you'd do it like ud-echelon, by subscribing to the lists
   12:24 Mithrandir     as long as you have a way to guesstimate from poster to launchpad id.
   12:24 nictuku        Seveas, ogra, dholbacht hank you  :-)
   === imtheface ready?
   12:24 Mithrandir     elmo: oh, why?
   12:24 elmo           Mithrandir: because I don't want lists.u.c tied to LP
   12:24 sabdfl         Mithrandir: email, mostly
   12:24 elmo           and more relevantly because there's no need to
   12:24 sabdfl         ud-echelon?
   12:24 Mithrandir     elmo: well, that's a possibility, too.
   12:25 elmo           sabdfl: debian's userdir-ldap has an echelon system that keeps track of "last seen" for Debian developers by subscribing to Debian  lists and matching From line's to DDs and checking signatures
   12:25 Mithrandir     elmo: I was thinking generating a state file which lp grabbed daily or something.
   12:25 sabdfl         elmo: we do want to make it easy to create a mailing list for an LP team
   12:25 sabdfl         ah, right
   12:25 nictuku        sabdfl, thank you for being supportive about my small contributions :-)
   12:25 sabdfl         nice name :-)
   12:25 Seveas         can we move on to imtheface ?
   12:26 elmo           sorry, yes, this isn't CC-relevant
   12:26 Seveas         ok, imtheface please give us your 3-liner
   === G0SUB [n=ghoseb@ubuntu/member/g0sub] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:26 imtheface      born as andy apdhani in jakarta, indonesia *and still there*. i'm bachelor in economics, as well as a huge fan of Free Software and also a dreamer! :)
   12:26 imtheface      wiki: [ https://wiki.ubuntu.com/imtheface ]  - lp: [ https://launchpad.net/people/imtheface ]  - in ubuntu mostly i contribute on translation, and provide support for local user on indonesian milist and forum.
   12:26 imtheface      in future i would like to help on documentation especially by making it avalaible in local language. last is to translate more apps & doc into indonesian.
   12:26 imtheface      okay done
   12:27 jsgotangco     its nice to see a fellow south east asian active :)
   12:27 imtheface      thx u!
   12:28 sabdfl         great translation work, andy
   12:29 imtheface      savdfl: still a lot more to translate :)
   12:29 jsgotangco     have you worked with Belutz?
   12:29 jsgotangco     (Andi Darmawan)
   12:29 sabdfl         one string at a time, we will shortly add a way to prioritise the different templates in dapper
   12:29 imtheface      yes ... mainly we talk in milist
   === Sergi0 [n=serge@ip227-28-166-62.adsl.versatel.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:30 sabdfl         ok, +1 from me for imtheface on the basis of lots of translation suggestions
   12:31 imtheface      sabdfl: kewl
   12:31 elmo           ack from me too
   12:32 sabdfl         Kamion, do you have a keyboard at this point?
   12:32 Kamion         yeah, imtheface +1, plenty of translation work and apparently localised documentation too although I can't read it :)
   12:32 sabdfl         ok, welcome aboard andy!
   12:32 nictuku        imtheface, congrats!!
   12:32 imtheface      Kamion: put it on lp then! :)
   12:32 imtheface      thx u all
   12:33 sabdfl         imtheface: did you request to join ubuntumembers in LP?
   12:33 imtheface      sabdfl: no yet!
   12:33 sabdfl         could you do that and ping me quickly, please?
   12:33 jsgotangco     imtheface: welcome
   12:34 imtheface      jsgotangco: thx u again
   12:34 sabdfl         we should have an efficient way to mail "all the people waiting to join ubuntumembers"
   12:34 sabdfl         note to self
   12:35 sabdfl         ok, david symons
   12:35 bimberi        hi all - i'll try a single paste...
   === bimberi is David Symons - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DavidSymons
   12:35 bimberi        I'm an software-engineer/IT-manager from Canberra Australia.  Ubuntu user since November 2004.  I've been helping people regularly on IRC (initially #ubuntu, later #kubuntu and #edubuntu also) since June 2005 averaging a couple of hours per day.
   12:35 bimberi        Other contributions: ubotu factoid editing, wikipage editing, laptop testing, testing for developers who've sought volunteers, bug reporting, spurious webpage reporting, active in the Australian LocoTeam and successfully submitting a recipe for the Official Ubuntu Book.
   12:35 bimberi        I see availability of local support as important to IT managers considering the Ubuntu alternative - so I'm lobbying the company I contract through to become an Ubuntu Support Provider.  Other plans are to get into bug triage (an area of great need I perceive), participate in Ubuntu marketing/advocacy fora, and continue the above.  Cheers!
   === olive [n=olive@o.o6.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:36 Seveas         \o/ from me for #ubuntu support - not the most active person but smart and doing good contributions
   12:36 sabdfl         bimberi: can you comment on the current state of #ubuntu, #kubuntu, #edubuntu?
   12:36 bimberi        Seveas: thanks
   12:37 Seveas         sabdfl, (on a reated node: bans in several channels are now tracked, see http://bugbot.ubuntulinux.nl/bantracker )
   12:37 sabdfl         Seveas: that's excellent - thanks!
   12:37 sabdfl         link's busted though
   12:37 Seveas         ehrm.. s/bantracker/bans.cgi/
   12:38 nictuku        the link in the main page to the ban tracker is borked too
   12:38 bimberi        sabdfl: #ubuntu is, of course, so busy - frantic at times.  It works very well IMO.  #kubuntu and #edubuntu are quieter
   12:38 ogra           Seveas, oh, a keylogger to get you our LP passwords ? *G*
   12:39 Seveas         ogra, lp_auth code can be viewed online
   12:39 ogra           yes, #edubuntu gets very specific questions :)
   12:39 Seveas         http://bugbot.ubuntulinux.nl/lp_auth.py
   12:39 ogra           Seveas, i wasnt serious :)
   12:40 Seveas         ogra, I am - I know this question will come up sooner or later
   12:40 bimberi        sabdfl: the op coverage in #ubuntu has improved in recent times with the recent additions
   12:40 Seveas         bimberi, do you think it's good enough ?
   12:41 bimberi        Seveas: yes i do :)
   12:41 sabdfl         bimberi: what's your biggest "wishlist" item for ubuntu?
   12:42 bimberi        sabdfl: to see it break though the mind-barriers of IT Managers as a windows replacement
   === juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Verlassend"]
   12:42 sabdfl         and any suggestions as to the top things we need to do to make that happen?
   === dholbach [n=daniel@i577B04FE.versanet.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:44 bimberi        sabdfl: marketing to existing IT Service providers to identify the existing FOSS-capable resources in their midst and foster them into a team capable of providing an excellent service
   12:45 sabdfl         sounds good, yes
   12:45 sabdfl         +1 for bimberi from me, on the back of sustained contributions to support in #ubuntu
   12:45 sabdfl         bimberi: have you seen the LP support tracker?
   12:45 bimberi        sabdfl: from my point of view ubuntu has made leaps and bounds with addressing little things that annoyed people FOSS - such as copy and paste between apps.  Continuing to do that to do...
   12:46 bimberi        sabdfl: no
   12:47 dholbach       bimberi: http://launchpad.net/support
   12:47 sabdfl         it's in very early stages, but will become the main channel for tracking support requests
   12:47 sabdfl         links into the bugtracker where needed etc
   12:47 bimberi        Continuing to focus on those little things too stop people dismissing it quickly (as used to occur when I demonstrated other distros)
   12:47 sabdfl         fyi
   12:47 sabdfl         kamion, elmo?
   12:47 Kamion         bimberi +1 for #ubuntu work and Australian team work
   12:47 elmo           ack
   12:48 bimberi        sabdfl: ah, yes  thankyou :)
   12:48 bimberi        thankyou all :-))
   12:48 Kamion         bimberi: little things> definitely yeah - there's just so many of them :-)
   12:49 bimberi        Kamion: haha - and Launchpad makes it so easy to report them :-)
   12:49 sabdfl         ok, updated in LP
   12:50 Kamion         ok, any other business?
   12:50 bimberi        sabdfl: cheers :)
   12:50 Seveas         yes
   12:50 sabdfl         when shall we n meet again?
   12:50 Seveas         bstqc_ostl, aka victor39 is around today
   12:50 bstqc_ostl     Hello,everyone.I am Victor.My irc name is bstqc_ostl.
   12:50 bstqc_ostl     my wiki page is:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Victor39
   12:50 Kamion         ah, ok, one more
   12:50 bstqc_ostl     I am a software testing engineer in Beijing Software Testing Center.Beijing Software Testing  Center is a professional third-part company .
   12:51 bstqc_ostl     I and my colleagues have done an all-sided testing on ubuntu-5.04 and dapper flight2.Our  testing includes functionality testing,setup testing,compatibility testing and performance  testing.I filed all the bug fond into bugzilla and malone.And I have published our testing  report to community.
   12:51 sabdfl         hi victor!
   12:51 bstqc_ostl     I have tested for flight2 on dell latitude d600.And I am the contact of dell latitude d600  laptop testing in LaptopTestingTeam.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/DellLatitudeD600
   12:51 bstqc_ostl     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/
   12:51 bstqc_ostl     hi,sabdfl
   12:51 bstqc_ostl     In January and February,2006,we asist Canonical to visit Beijing as a part of Ubuntu Asia  Business Tour.
   12:51 bstqc_ostl     Now we are testing dapper for the release in June.
   12:51 bstqc_ostl     Thanks!
   12:51 sabdfl         +1 from me for victor on the basis of excellent help on ABT and ongoing testing feedback and support
   12:52 elmo           sabdfl: you just +1'ed him 'cos he has a photo of you on his wikipage, didn't you
   12:52 Seveas         I've been talking to victor before and \o/ from for his enthousiasm
   12:52 jsgotangco     haha
   12:52 bstqc_ostl     thank you,sabdfl.
   12:52 sabdfl         elmo: you got it in one
   === Kamion needs to actually start looking over those testing reports
   12:52 sabdfl         elmo: this of course is one advantage from not running away when people point cameras at one
   12:52 dholbach       yeah, I was amazed by the work he did and he and I will sit together for integrating the OSTL test plans in http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing
   12:52 Kamion         it will get easier once they're distilled into bug reports in malone
   12:53 jsgotangco     yeah the last test was with a dapper milestone though that i got to host
   12:53 dholbach       Kamion: the last bunch of defect reports were filed into malone/bugzilla
   12:53 Kamion         I've got no problem with Victor though, sustained lab testing is excellent and sorely needed
   12:53 Kamion         dholbach: ah, good
   12:54 elmo           yeah, ack from me too
   12:54 Seveas         bstqc_ostl, congratz !
   12:54 sabdfl         kamion, that a +1?
   12:54 Kamion         sabdfl: yes
   12:54 bstqc_ostl     thanks, dholbach.thanks,all!
   12:54 sabdfl         ok, welcome aboart victor
   12:55 freeflying     bstqc_ostl: congrats
   === Sergi0 wondering what is going on here
   12:55 bstqc_ostl     sabdfl:cheers!
   12:55 dholbach       that's excellent news, bstqc_ostl :-)
   12:55 sabdfl         very welcome indeed
   12:55 sabdfl         ok, when do we want to meet again?
   12:56 bstqc_ostl     dholbach: :)
   12:56 bstqc_ostl     can I get a mail address named bstqc_ostl@ubuntu.com?Because we are a team  working for ubuntu.Besides me,there are other members in our open source testing lab.I am  only a representative.
   12:56 nictuku        congrats bstqc_ostl :-)
   12:56 Seveas         sabdfl, in 2 weeks, preferably on a different time
   12:56 sabdfl         april 17 is easter monday
   12:56 Seveas         (I'm actually giving a class now)
   12:56 bstqc_ostl     ths,nicuku!
   12:56 sabdfl         bstqc_ostl: i think you automatically get your LP preferred email  @ubuntu.com
   12:57 sabdfl         for some value of automatic, after elmo reviews it
   12:57 ogra           why is the CC meeting on a monday anyway ?
   12:57 Simira         I knew something was wrong! It's monday today
   12:57 jsgotangco     yeah
   12:57 Seveas         ogra, to fit some peoples schedule
   12:57 ogra           i thought that was an exception
   12:57 Simira         sabdfl: who not the 18th?
   12:57 jsgotangco     i blinked twice when i saw activity
   12:57 bstqc_ostl     sabdfl:I see.
   12:57 sabdfl         i'm on the road to Rhodes tomorrow
   12:57 Seveas         proposal: april 18, 22:00 UTC?
   12:57 sabdfl         i could do the 18th
   12:58 Kamion         I'm on holiday on the 18th
   12:58 sabdfl         would prefer a little earlier, since DST kicked in
   12:58 ogra           ++
   12:58 ogra           20:00 UTC ?
   12:58 sabdfl         21:00 is 22:00 local in the UK
   12:58 Seveas         +1 on 21:00
   12:58 sabdfl         elmo? mako should be able to make either
   === Kamion won't make it; if both elmo and mako can though, and you don't mind me excusing myself, no objection
   12:59 sabdfl         Kamion: np, enjoy the holiday
   12:59 elmo           I can make that
   12:59 sabdfl         ok, 21:00 UTC it is
   12:59 Kamion         it's my stepson's birthday, I missed it last year due to UDU so I'm not missing it this year ;-)
   01:00 Seveas         ok, see you all in 2 weeks!
   01:00 jsgotangco     nice meeting
   01:00 Seveas         I'll poke robitaille to put the meeting on the fridge
   01:00 sabdfl         updated the agenda
   01:01 sabdfl         ok, thanks everybody
   01:01 sabdfl         sorry for waking you up elmo!

</pre>
