{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** No previous ( 3rd) actions to follow up on.
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===
* Feature Freeze Definition for 14.10 was 6/19/2014.
* Alpha 1 Build for Server done.
* Blueprints are approved with one more to approve.
* QA team reports no major issues.
* smb preparation merge proposal for review by rbasak, still todo -- not high prio.
* No upcoming events to discuss.

===== Meeting Actions =====
* No actions for this week

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, July 1st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <smoser> o/
[16:00] <gnuoy> o/
[16:00] <lutostag> o/
[16:01] <coreycb> o/
[16:01] <jamespage> o/
[16:02] <rharper> o/
[16:03] <lutostag> alright, lets go
[16:03] <lutostag> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:03] <lutostag> and no bot..., anyways
[16:03] <lutostag> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <beisner> o/
[16:04] <lutostag> just refresh bug status page, done
[16:04] <lutostag> #topic Utopic Development
[16:04] <lutostag> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
[16:04] <lutostag> Feature Definition Freeze was last Thursday, I think gaughen got them all approved; we'll look at BPs in a bit
[16:04] <smoser> We will have an alpha-1 for cloud images.
[16:05] <smoser> server will not have a official cloud image.
[16:05] <gaughen> lutostag, yup blueprints are approved. there may be one outstanding.
[16:05] <gaughen> o/
[16:05] <lutostag> yay, alpha-1 is next and smoser says were good :)
[16:05] <lutostag> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:06] <lutostag> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:06] <lutostag> One high
[16:06] <lutostag> clamav http://launchpad.net/bugs/1317587
[16:06] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1317587 in clamav (Ubuntu Utopic) "ClamAV 0.98.1 is Outdated" [High,In progress]
[16:07] <lutostag> looks like in progress, but last comment was 5-10
[16:08] <lutostag> looks like it needs a pkg sync from debian
[16:08] <jamespage> lutostag, I think that's done
[16:08] <jamespage>  clamav | 0.98.4+dfsg-1                      | utopic            | source, amd64, arm64, armhf, i386, powerpc, ppc64el
[16:08] <lutostag> cool, wanna close that one out jamespage ?
[16:09] <jamespage> lutostag, nah - ScottK looks to be on it and it needs multiple SRU's - lets leave it to him
[16:09] <lutostag> alright, fun for him :)
[16:09] <jamespage> (thanks ScottK)
[16:09] <lutostag> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:09] <lutostag> subtopic Blueprints
[16:09] <lutostag> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
[16:10] <lutostag> now that all of these are accepted, I guess its time to get pumping on them
[16:11] <lutostag> anything else to say about these?
[16:11] <lutostag> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:11] <lutostag> caribou: anything for us?
[16:11] <caribou> nothing for this week
[16:12] <lutostag> alright, thanks!
[16:12] <lutostag> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:12] <lutostag> psivaa: ?
[16:13] <lutostag> guess not
[16:13] <lutostag> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
[16:13] <smb> Hi, I have nothing new
[16:14] <sforshee> me neither
[16:14] <lutostag> cool, you got your MP from last week sorted?
[16:14] <smb> Err no, mostly to it not being highest prio
[16:14] <psivaa> lutostag: sorry, just was afk, nothing much from the smoke testing side.
[16:14] <smb> I also want to try to whether PVM can be supported
[16:15] <lutostag> smb: alright, just bugging you :)
[16:15] <smb> Thank you! :)
[16:15] <lutostag> psivaa: cool, thanks
[16:15] <lutostag> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:15] <lutostag> anything coming up? nothing I know about
[16:16] <hallyn> psivaa: have you made progress with using events to detect rebooted installing images for smoke testing?
[16:16] <psivaa> hallyn: not really, sorry. dint have luck in finding a proper machine to test the fix.
[16:16] <hallyn> ok
[16:16] <psivaa> hallyn: will do in a couple of days
[16:17] <lutostag> #topic Open Discussion
[16:17] <lutostag> anything else?
[16:18] <lutostag> ...
[16:18] <lutostag> .
[16:18] <lutostag> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
[16:18] <lutostag> Next meeting: +7days
[16:19] <lutostag> #endmeeting
</pre>
