{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon Mar 26 16:31:46 2018 UTC
* '''End''': 16:56:40
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Emily Ratliff (ratliff)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson
* ratliff
* leosilva

=== Not present ===
* sbeattie
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Generalist role rotation
** CVE Triage: leosilva, Bug Triage: sarnold, Community: ratliff, Happy Place: sbeattie, mdeslaur
** Contributions
** Simon Quigley (tsimonq2) provided an update in xenial for atril (LP: #Bug:1735418)
** Simon Quigley (tsimonq2) provided updates in xenial and artful for plasma-workspace (LP: #Bug:1748247)

** Ubuntu Security team is <nowiki>[[https://boards.greenhouse.io/canonical/jobs/1084137#.WqvsZ6jwaUk|hiring for the Tech Lead position]]</nowiki>
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** emergency PRs for 18.04 related to systemd and glvnd breakage
** steam-support interface
** lxd partial confinement not working bug
** org.gnome.Shell.Screencast interface
** mdeslaur
** track down unixodbc regression
** test wayland updates
** security updates
** sarnold
** MIRs
*** volume-key
*** python-nacl
** !ChrisCoulson
** Firefox updates
** thunderbird updates
** !AppArmor auditing changes
** nodejs updates
** embargoed issue
** internal issue
** ratliff
** interview candidates
** leosilva
** zsh updates
** security updates
* Highlighted packages
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2018/ubuntu-meeting.2018-03-26-16.31.moin.txt
