{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=01&day=12&year=2015&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jan 12th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Lev Lazinskiy (levlaz) provided a debdiff for precise for nginx (LP: #1370478). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
** snappy
** pending issues
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: community
** pending updates (openssl)
** embargoed issue
** sbeattie
** pending updates (various yaml packages)
** !AppArmor patch review
** binutils security update
** pick up pie-on-amd64
** tyhicks
** pending updates (git)
** help with Bug:1408106 - attach_disconnected not sufficient for overlayfs
** get back to Bug:1362469 - AppArmor unrequested reply protection generates unallowable denials
** jjohansen
** monthly !AppArmor meeting
** !AppArmor patch review
** Bug:1408833
** Bug:1408106 - attach_disconnected not sufficient for overlayfs
** !AppArmor upstreaming
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
*** pending updates (coreutils)
*** MIR audits
** chrisccoulson
** mozilla updates
** Bug:1377198 - CertificateError is not cancelled if you stop the pending navigation
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** tyhicks asked the !AppArmor devs if there was anything else needed to help the patch review for his patches. They responded "more time"

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-01-12-17.12.moin.txt
