{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

10:06 mdke         who's around?
10:07 LaserJock    I am
=== manicka nods
10:08 mdke         cool
10:08 mdke         shall we get straight into it?
10:08 trappist     let's do, this is the only thing keeping me from going home :)
10:08 mdke         agenda is: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/MeetingAgenda
                   first up, Author attribution - proposal is to have the author of every
10:09 mdke         document as the Documentation Team, with the team email address. Individual
                   contributors can then be listed in the <legalnotice> tag.
10:09 mdke         we've already discussed this briefly in the chan
10:09 mdke         anyone have any clarifications/questions/worries?
10:09 LaserJock    ok, so where exactly are we setting this?
10:09 LaserJock    in bookinfo.xml or the omf file?
=== Bigredman74 [n=Bigredma@68.62.169.39] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:09 mdke         in each document, wherever it is relevant
10:10 mdke         it's in the <bookinfo> tag yeah, but that may not always be a separate file
10:10 Burgwork     works for me
10:10 trappist     I'm not sure I like it - I think that info is less useful than an actual
                   author's name
10:10 mdke         to my mind, the ideal example is this:
                   https://docteam.ubuntu.com/repos/trunk/generic/packagingguide/C/bookinfo.xml
10:10 trappist     but I haven't really thought it through
10:10 trappist     what's the argument for it?
10:11 mdke         trappist, i think docs look better when they come from a team, rather than
                   individuals.
10:11 Burgwork     we have a single contact, the doc team
10:11 mdke         and it's better for contact details, as Burg says
10:11 Burgwork     because as some of us have seen, sometimes teams are revolving doors, while
                   the team is constant
10:11 LaserJock    mdke: ok, but what about the omf files. They have <creator>, <maintainer>,
                   and <contributor> tages?
10:11 trappist     that does make sense
10:12 mdke         LaserJock, i would say creator+maintainer = team, and contributor =
                   individuals
10:12 mdke         not sure
10:13 LaserJock    the only thing I would like to have is some separation a far as what doc
                   team members are "in charge" of each doc
=== Bigredman74 [n=Bigredma@68.62.169.39] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
10:13 mdke         LaserJock, yes, that's why I like the way you've done it in the packaging
                   guide bookinfo
10:13 LaserJock    I agree ;-)
10:13 LaserJock    but I think I need to change the omf file
10:14 mdke         yes
=== jjesse [n=jjesse@mail.ftpb.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:14 mdke         hi jjesse
10:14 jjesse       hello
10:14 mdke         jjesse, we're on item 1
10:14 jjesse       ok, grabing the agenda
10:16 jjesse       any decision made on that?
10:16 trappist     so author=team, maintainer=maintainer and contributors=a list?
10:16 mdke         jjesse, the general feeling is pro, what are your views?
10:16 mdke         trappist, precisely
10:16 jjesse       i have no problem with it
10:17 trappist     mdke: as opposed to author/maintainer=team
10:17 jjesse       for example in the release notes i included some authors in the list but
                   missed some and was asked about it
10:17 jjesse       i like trappist idea author=team maint. = maintainer
10:18 manicka      a contributor list should be more than enough
                   trappist, yes. in
10:18 mdke         https://docteam.ubuntu.com/repos/trunk/generic/packagingguide/C/bookinfo.xml
                   you'd have the maintainers and contributors in the <legalnotice> tag, and
                   the author (docteam) in the <authorgroup> tag
10:19 trappist     I don't see a maintainer - as in, who's "in charge of" that particular doc
10:19 mdke         trappist, right, that would be added to that file
10:19 trappist     which is useful info, at least for me
10:19 trappist     gotcha
10:19 jjesse       confused a little
10:20 jjesse       maintainer would be the person "in charge" of that doc, like laserjock for
                   kubuntu destkop guide
                   a bit like this:
10:20 mdke         https://docteam.ubuntu.com/repos/trunk/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/bookinfo.xml
                   except maybe the maintainer list could be separate from the contributors
10:20 jjesse       ?
10:20 trappist     in that case, +1 to the proposal as I understand it
10:20 mdke         jjesse, sure, except its robotgeek :)
10:20 jjesse       grin i never keep it straight
=== mdke inserts an apostrophe in "its" before trappist sees
=== trappist puts away his apostrophe-shaped cluebat
10:21 mdke         ok, everyone seems in favour
10:21 mdke         any more comments?
10:21 jjesse       so for the docs we have to redo and add a bookinfo.xml file?
10:21 jjesse       cause i know releasenotes and about kubuntu don't have them
10:21 mdke         jjesse, no no. You can do it all in one file too
10:21 mdke         jjesse, it's in the <bookinfo> tag in release-notes.xml and
                   about-kubuntu.xml
10:22 jjesse       ah sorry, brain is fried from a long work week
10:22 mdke         i know the feeling :/
10:22 mdke         all clear?
10:22 jjesse       yes
10:22 LaserJock    I think so
10:23 mdke         LaserJock, go ahead if it's not
10:23 LaserJock    mdke: so the packaging guide is ok? I just need to adjust the omf file
10:23 mdke         LaserJock, you should adjust the list in bookinfo.xml so that it is clear
                   you are the maintainer. Maybe even split the list into two lists
=== Fujitsu|zZz is now known as Fujitsu
10:23 mdke         IMO
10:24 LaserJock    mdke: ok, maybe you should send a sample (template) to the list so everybody
                   can see
10:24 mdke         ok
10:24 mdke         it's two lists already actually
10:25 LaserJock    I just split it into "doc team members" and "contributors"
10:26 mdke         LaserJock, something like this: http://pastebin.com/608084
10:26 mdke         except without the grammatical errors
10:26 LaserJock    that looks good to me
10:26 mdke         note: I've also changed the authorgroup to use the entity, but that is
                   trivial
10:27 LaserJock    and then in the omf I would have author == doc project and maintainer ==
                   laserjock
10:28 mdke         creator == doc project, I suppose. there isn't an "author"
10:28 trappist     that does make more sense
10:28 LaserJock    there isn't?
10:28 LaserJock    doh, there isn't
10:28 LaserJock    ok, I'm all good
10:29 mdke         great
=== netzmeister [n=netzmeis@p549F8D01.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:29 mdke         next item:  Internal doc freeze dates? What/when are we giving docs to
                   translators?
10:30 mdke         we haven't heard back from the TB about the doc freeze yet
10:30 jjesse       remember that this will be the first time that kubuntu docs will be included
                   in rosetta
10:30 LaserJock    ok, so I was talking with Keybuk in -devel about the doc freeze
10:30 mdke         me too
10:30 mdke         he seemed happy but said to wait for the rest of the TB
10:31 LaserJock    he thought the present scheme on wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperReleaseSchedule was
                   good
10:31 mdke         erm
10:31 mdke         that is kinda the opposite of what we've been saying on the thread on the
                   mailing list
10:31 mdke         it is a 6 week delay
10:32 LaserJock    exactly
10:32 LaserJock    that is my point
10:32 jjesse       i thought on the mailing list we talked about a 2 week delay for the docs
10:32 mdke         when I spoke to him today he was happy about amending that to 2 weeks
10:32 LaserJock    mdke: ok, I talked to him yesterday I think
10:32 LaserJock    he must have changed his mind ;-)
10:32 mdke         LaserJock, I'm pushier than you :)
10:32 mdke         I'm really against a 6 week delay
10:33 LaserJock    well, the point he brought up was that UI Freeze was also pushed 6 weeks
10:33 mdke         those poor translations are gonna have like 10 times the strings they had
                   for breezy, and even then it wasn't enough time
10:33 LaserJock    so we will freeze before UI Freeze
10:33 mdke         I don't have a problem with that, as I said in my email. what do others
                   think?
10:34 trappist     I don't have my head around what needs to be done or how much time we
********** need*, so I don't really have an opinion.
10:34 LaserJock    Corey didn't think that the UI freeze would affect much and I tend to agree.
                   I think the changes should be pretty small
10:34 LaserJock    but I'm not writing a doc heavily using the UI ;-)
10:35 mdke         I agree too. I think that any changes can be sorted out by us changing and
                   notifying the translator list
10:35 mdke         but I'm still keen on freezing early formally, rather than informally
10:35 LaserJock    agreed, so +2 weeks on all docs?
10:36 mdke         can the packaging guide handle it?
10:36 LaserJock    I sure hope so
10:36 mdke         heh
10:36 LaserJock    2 extra weeks will good
10:36 LaserJock    It might not have as much polish as the rest of the docs
10:36 trappist     I can polish
10:36 mdke         any more thoughts on this? votes +1 or -1 for 2 weeks (subject to TB
                   approval):
10:36 LaserJock    +1
10:37 trappist     +1
10:37 mdke         +1
10:37 mdke         Burgwork, jjesse, mgalvin, manicka ^
10:37 manicka      +1
10:37 Burgwork     +1
=== Burgwork has no idea what he just voted for
10:38 mdke         lol
10:38 mdke         Burgwork, 2 week extension on the freeze, rather than 6
10:38 Burgwork     sounds good
10:38 mgalvin      +1
10:39 LaserJock    my biggest concern with the packaging guide is that it won't have much
                   developer review, but I think I'll have to wait for Dapper+1 for that
10:39 mdke         ok, that brings us onto the next one
10:39 mdke         Current doc status. Where are we at with each doc?
10:39 mdke         go LaserJock
10:40 LaserJock    umm, well, uhhh
10:40 LaserJock    I'm getting there
10:40 LaserJock    I'm pretty happy with the introduction and getting started chapters
10:40 LaserJock    I think trappist could work his magic there
10:41 mdke         so, packaging guide and server guide would appear to be good targets for
                   trappist and other like minded magic-workers
10:41 mdke         the desktop guide is looking good, I think. How about kubuntu stuff? <--
                   jjesse
10:41 LaserJock    I was supposed to get help from other MOTUs etc. but that hasn't shown up. I
                   think I'll have to brute force it :(
10:41 trappist     I've already been busy on serverguide.  I can make time for packaging guide
                   once LaserJock's got it stable.
10:42 mdke         trappist, any idea which chapters are missing from serverguide? it's nearly
                   there, right?
10:42 LaserJock    ok, so I wanted to bring up status reports in relation to this
10:42 trappist     yeah, it is.  some network-config stuff, a lot of email stuff and maybe some
                   firewall stuff still needs work iirc
10:43 mdke         LaserJock, what's on your mind?
10:43 trappist     oh and wireless.
10:43 LaserJock    ok, I think all the docs should have status reports, and we should be using
                   them for this stuff
10:43 trappist     I totally agree.
10:44 LaserJock    I'm not sure exactly what I need to do that
10:44 mdke         LaserJock, we've been getting better at status reports recently. they are
                   generally up to date, I think. BUT there is one major problem
10:44 trappist     the serverguide has one that seems pretty up to date and it's been very
                   useful to me, looking for stuff to work on
10:44 mdke         if you take a look at http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/status/sg-report.html,
                   you'll see that far too many sections have tags
=== dsas [n=dean@host86-143-88-74.range86-143.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:44 mdke         even the really minor sub-sub-sub sections have them
10:44 mdke         which is really confusing
10:44 LaserJock    I agree
10:45 trappist     mdke: what about a tree-view status report, then?
10:45 mdke         we could write up a wiki page about status tags
10:45 mdke         trappist, that would rock. no idea how to do it
10:45 trappist     how are these status reports generated?
10:46 mdke         trappist, in the Makefile, in a similar way to the html previews
10:46 trappist     I'll look into that and see if I can make it happen
10:46 LaserJock    ok, so looking at the Projects wiki, I don't see links to many of the
                   Kubuntu doc status reports or the packaging guide and style guide
10:46 mdke         I would tend to prioritise that quite low
10:46 mdke         maybe even dapper+1, if we only have 3 weeks left
10:47 trappist     yeah
10:47 LaserJock    mdke: so do I need to tweak the Makefile to generate a status report?
10:47 mdke         LaserJock, you may have to add an entry for the packaging guide yeah
10:47 LaserJock    ok
10:47 mdke         LaserJock, and you'll need status tags in the doc, if you haven't got them
                   already
10:48 LaserJock    I've got 1 so far for trappist ;-)
10:48 LaserJock    but I'll go through and add the rest
10:48 mdke         cool
10:48 mdke         the various tags are at the bottom of the Projects wiki page
10:49 LaserJock    ok, so I guess I'll put "review" when I'm ready for some word nazi action?
10:49 mdke         that's it
10:49 LaserJock    k, I'll get it done ASAP
10:50 mdke         okies. next issue
10:50 mdke         Screenshots? How many and for what docs? How will the UI Freeze affect them?
10:50 LaserJock    ok, so that was for Madpilot kinda
10:50 LaserJock    I noticed there was some discussion about including screenshots in the user
                   guides
=== mdke nods
10:51 mdke         placeholders need to be in before string freeze, but they can be
                   taken/updated after that, if things change before UI Freeze.
10:51 LaserJock    yeah, and they wouldn't be translated ...
10:51 trappist     I think nobody should be taking screenshots until after the ui freeze
10:52 LaserJock    should we make a list of screenshots we need for each doc? maybe on a wiki?
10:52 trappist     so there won't be any wasted effort, and we should have time then, due to
                   the string freeze
10:52 mdke         LaserJock, they should just be inserted into the document, in my opinion.
                   then they can be taken later, as trappist says
                   I was just thinking that the authors could put up a list of screenshots
10:54 LaserJock    (that need to be done) for each doc and then people could attach them. It
                   might go a little faster that way
10:54 LaserJock    just a thought
=== LaserJock notes the silence. Must have been a grand though ;-)
10:55 LaserJock    thought
10:55 mdke         it might work. But making a list of screenshots is not a lot slower than
                   adding placeholders into the doc directly
10:55 mdke         slower/faster *
10:56 LaserJock    mdke: I mean after the placeholders are in
10:56 trappist     mdke: but looking at a list is faster than looking for placeholders
10:56 mdke         ah sure
10:56 mdke         yes, agreed
10:56 mdke         we should have plenty of time to do that after the strings are frozen, as
                   trappist says
10:56 LaserJock    I was thinking that way that the author could solicit screenshots ;-)
10:56 mdke         yeah, good plan, my bad
10:57 LaserJock    ok, so we use placeholders until after the UI Freeze, right?
10:57 mdke         that's right
10:58 LaserJock    ok, next item?
10:58 mdke         Do we have any prioritization of wiki pages (cleanup) that should be done
                   before Dapper is released?
10:58 mdke         Burgwork, good item for you if you're around
10:58 LaserJock    I was just thinking that maybe some wiki pages need to be prioritized for
                   the release
10:58 trappist     do we even have an unprioritized list?
10:59 mdke         trappist, CategoryCleanup
10:59 LaserJock    or https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WikiToDo maybe
11:00 trappist     holy crap that's a lot of wikis
11:00 trappist     how does stuff get onto/off of that list?
11:00 LaserJock    you fix it ;-)
11:00 trappist     I can get on that
11:01 LaserJock    at the bottom of the page is usually the list of categories a page belongs
                   to
11:01 mdke         yeah, just delete the reference to CategoryCleanup once it's clean :)
11:02 trappist     got it.
11:02 mdke         trappist, for future word-nazi-ing reference, you call them "wiki pages"
                   rather than "wikis"
11:02 trappist     check.
11:02 mdke         "This wiki page is a guide to etc"
11:02 LaserJock    anyway, I could be totally wrong, but I thought that maybe we need to make
                   sure that all the most important wiki pages are ready for dapper
11:02 Burgwork     we are looking for a list of priority pages?
11:02 trappist     I dunno if I can maintain a 10-a-day pace until release, so yeah I guess
                   prioritization will be helpful
11:02 mdke         but LaserJock's item is a valid one
11:03 Burgwork     BinaryDriverHowto is badly in need of a rewrite
11:03 mdke         a number of things will need updating for dapper
11:03 mdke         codecs have changed packages etc
11:03 Burgwork     we need to decide what to do with DVD support in Dapper
11:04 LaserJock    arggh
11:04 mdke         heh
11:04 mdke         that is rather waiting on upstream tbh
=== mgalvin has to run, will catch the log later
11:04 Burgwork     dvd support has not been ported to gstreamer0.10
11:04 mgalvin      later guys
11:04 mdke         Burgwork, it's been ported, but some features are missing
11:04 Burgwork     ugh
11:04 mdke         menus, subtitles are missing
11:04 Burgwork     all I know is there is not a package yet available. I call that not ported
11:04 mdke         apparently there is a chance of it getting fixed for dapper, but only a
                   chance
=== raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:05 mdke         I was led to believe there is a package
11:05 LaserJock    I think so
11:05 Burgwork     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PageHits <-- this is a good guideline for figuring
                   out what needs to be done
11:05 mdke         good point
11:05 LaserJock    nice
11:05 trappist     great link
11:06 Burgwork     I will create a subpage of WikiTodo called CheckedForDapper and list some
                   that need to be checked
11:06 Burgwork     once someone has checked a page, sign off on it on that page
=== stevelab [n=steve@c-66-30-219-182.hsd1.ma.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:06 mdke         maybe even a category?
11:06 Burgwork     page is easier, we don't need extra categories, IMHO
11:07 mdke         alright, if you don't mind doing the list
11:07 Burgwork     I will do it tonight
11:07 LaserJock    way cool
11:07 mdke         cool
11:08 LaserJock    ok, so I just wanted to briefly mention that I was able to get the Ubuntu
                   docs to register with doc-base
11:08 mdke         yay
11:08 LaserJock    but I haven't done the Kubuntu docs yet
11:09 LaserJock    it looks like they should be easier
11:09 mdke         yep, they are all under /usr/share/doc/kde/en/HTML/kubuntu
11:09 mdke         will be hell to localise, stupid kde
11:10 LaserJock    so I just have to add the proper control files and tweak the packaging
11:10 LaserJock    and then build a test kubuntu-docs package
11:10 LaserJock    man they take a long time to build
11:11 mdke         do you want a user account on our server?
11:11 mdke         the builds are fast
11:11 mdke         in fact they should be fast on any reasonable computer
11:11 LaserJock    perhaps that might be useful
11:12 mdke         ok
11:12 LaserJock    what every you want. If I could use my dual core iMac maybe it would be
                   faster ;-)
11:12 mdke         heh
11:12 mdke         any other business, can we wrap things up?
11:13 trappist     I got nothin
11:13 dsas         quick question: I take it that will there be a meeting after dapper release
                   to discuss the next cycle?
11:14 LaserJock    many, many meetings ;-)
11:14 dsas         sounds fun ;)
11:15 mdke         yeah
=== trappist &
11:16 mdke         me too

</pre>
