{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon May 9th 2016 16:30 UTC
* '''End''': 16:55 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* !ChrisCoulson

=== Not present ===
* tyhicks

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to Otto Kekäläinen for his help on security updates for the community supported mariadb-5.5 last week. Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Touch bluetooth policy
** pull request reviews for new interfaces
** land seccomp argument filtering pending MP review
** policy recompiles for apparmor upgrades on Snappy
** help with snappy sprint as needed
** docker interface as have time
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: CVE triage, community
** security updates for openssh
** more upstream samba regression cleanups
** patch pilot
** updates as have time
** sbeattie
** weekly role: bug triage
** kernel USNs
** glibc update
** work with Foundation on gcc-4.8 in trusty-security
** sponsored openjdk-6 update
** working through PIE build failures on yakkety
** tyhicks (did not attend)
** weekly role: sprinting
** jjohansen
** finish up xace investigation
** fixing apparmor kernel stacking bugs
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** MIR follow-up emails
** source code searching tool
** MIRs
** imagemagick update
** !ChrisCoulson
** firefox security update
** thunderbird security update
** Oxide security update
** finish fix for bug:1326697 (move to git, migrate to GN)
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** none

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-05-09-16.30.moin.txt
