{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: IRC team, 27 Oct at 21:03 &mdash; 21:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-10-27-21.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review last meetings action items ====
The discussion about "Review last meetings action items" started at 21:04.

** ''ACTION:'' ircc to do the cloak removals

==== Open items in the IRCC tracker ====
The discussion about "Open items in the IRCC tracker" started at 21:07.

==== Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council ====
The discussion about "Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council" started at 21:08.

==== Operator Applicants ====
The discussion about "Operator Applicants" started at 21:08.

==== Membership applications ====
The discussion about "Membership applications" started at 21:17.

==== Any Other Business ====
The discussion about "Any Other Business" started at 21:17.

** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc-council/+members 

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items ===

* ircc to do the cloak removals

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (47)
* IdleOne (7)
* meetingology (4)
* genii (2)

=== Full Log ===

 21:03 <AlanBell> #startmeeting IRC team

 21:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Oct 27 21:03:51 2013 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 21:03 <meetingology> 

 21:03 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 21:04 <AlanBell> not been very organised about advance notifications for this meeting, but here we are

 21:04 <AlanBell> and I have been kinda busy/mostly offline for a while

 21:04 <AlanBell> #topic Review last meetings action items

 21:05 <IdleOne> o/

 21:07 <AlanBell> there were no action items recorded, but we were going to do the cloak removals of expired members, don't think we got far with that

 21:07 <AlanBell> #action ircc to do the cloak removals

 21:07 * meetingology ircc to do the cloak removals

 21:07 <AlanBell> I will have a crack at it this week

 21:07 <AlanBell> #topic Open items in the IRCC tracker

 21:07 <AlanBell> none, just checked it

 21:08 <AlanBell> #topic Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council

 21:08 <AlanBell> no bugs

 21:08 <AlanBell> #topic Operator Applicants

 21:08 <AlanBell> we are at the start of a new development cycle, Trusty Tahir

 21:09 <AlanBell> nope, got that wrong

 21:09 <AlanBell> Trusty Tahr

 21:09 <AlanBell> and we have a general intake of operators in line with the development cycle, so it is time to process the queues and see what applicants there are

 21:10 <IdleOne> Anybody who is disillusioned enough to believe they can make a difference?

 21:10 <AlanBell> **** Team **** #kubuntu-devel IRC Operators

 21:10 <AlanBell> 14517 https://launchpad.net/~smartboyhw Howard Chan

 21:10 <AlanBell> just the one :)

 21:11 <IdleOne> go ahead and +o him then :)

 21:11 <AlanBell> hang on, might be some more

 21:14 <AlanBell> **** Team **** #ubuntu-offtopic IRC Operators

 21:14 <AlanBell> 44 https://launchpad.net/~robtongue Rob Tongue

 21:14 <AlanBell> **** Team **** #xubuntu IRC Operators

 21:14 <AlanBell> 13 https://launchpad.net/~mystic-scientist Kaulbach

 21:14 <AlanBell> 21:08 >> OpenURL 12

 21:14 <AlanBell> **** Team **** #ubuntu IRC Operators

 21:14 <AlanBell> 44 https://launchpad.net/~robtongue Rob Tongue

 21:14 <AlanBell> that seems to be it

 21:15 <AlanBell> Rob Tongue is phunyguy

 21:16 <IdleOne> I think genii is a given

 21:16 <AlanBell> yeah, existing operators are basically a given

 21:16 <AlanBell> anyhow, I will go through that with the rest of the IRCC and we will make fairly swift decisions I imagine

 21:17 <IdleOne> Sounds like an action plan

 21:17 * genii sips

 21:17 <AlanBell> #topic Membership applications

 21:17 <AlanBell> none today

 21:17 <AlanBell> #topic Any Other Business

 21:17 <AlanBell> anyone else got any comments or questions?

 21:18 <IdleOne> none right now for me

 21:19 <AlanBell> ok, I will note that we will be kicking off the next IRCC election next month, we expire at the end of December

 21:20 <AlanBell> charter and details are here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcCouncil

 21:20 <IdleOne> do we know how many seats will be up for grabs?

 21:21 <AlanBell> in fact, as we have to do a shortlist to the CC before we can open voting I think we should kick it off sooner rather than later to give people time to do wiki pages and the like

 21:21 <AlanBell> I think all 5 of us expire at the same time

 21:21 <AlanBell> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc-council/+members

 21:23 <genii> Strange, on most boards, terms are offset so that there is never a complete turnover in a single election.

 21:23 <AlanBell> we actually syncronised it kind of intentionally

 21:24 <AlanBell> Tm_T joined 6 months after the others, but the expiry date was brought into line

 21:25 <AlanBell> mainly so we don't have more elections to manage than neccessary

 21:25 <AlanBell> we are all able to stand again, multiple terms are fine, I would be surprised at a complete turnover, but we haven't really discussed intentions around standing again

 21:27 <AlanBell> anyhow, I would expect a more full discussion of the election process next month, but I will probably send an initial email to the list and announce in a few places that people thinking of standing for election to the IRCC should familiarise themselves with the process and check their wiki page

 21:27 <AlanBell> anything else for now?

 21:28 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
