{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
{{{
18:59	MootBot	Meeting started at 18:59. The chair is heno.
18:59	MootBot	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
19:00	heno	I added a topic since the email went out
19:01	heno	[TOPIC] Dapper verification testing - does the QA team have any oustanding tests here?
19:01	MootBot	New Topic:  Dapper verification testing - does the QA team have any oustanding tests here?
19:01	heno	bdmurray: I know you have been working on this
19:01	heno	and reported a failed test
19:01	heno	what's the status of that?
19:02	bdmurray	heno: I think there are a couple more I could do
19:02	bdmurray	I don't recall the failed test you are talking about
19:04	heno	bdmurray: bug 153152
19:04	ubotu	Launchpad bug 153152 in hplip "[Gutsy SRU request] Fax utility not adding files to job." [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/153152
19:04	heno	looks like work is ongoing to re-fix it
19:04	heno	arg, gutsy, sorry
19:05	heno	nevermind :)
19:05	heno	bug 57233 and bug 164449 are the main blockers ATM AFAIK
19:06	ubotu	Launchpad bug 57233 in linux-source-2.6.15 "Minor revision 2.6.15-26 doesn't detect attached SCSI disks to LSI 1030ST" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/57233
19:06	ubotu	Launchpad bug 164449 in linux-backports-modules-2.6.15 "undefined symbols in mptspi driver" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/164449
19:06	heno	ogasawara, bdmurray: is any of this stuff we can test?
19:06	heno	or does it need special HW?
19:07	ogasawara	heno:  I don't have the hw for 57233
19:07	bdmurray	heno: nor I
19:08	heno	I have a conf call about this tomorrow. I'd appreciate a review of what's going on with those two bugs from ogasawara (technical background so I can grok the issues) and an overview from bdmurray on what testing we have done for 6.06.2 and what else we might contribute
* ogasawara nods
19:08	heno	bdmurray, ogasawara: could you email me your views on that today?
19:08	bdmurray	heno: no problem
19:09	ogasawara	heno: I'll send it after the meeting
19:09	heno	thanks!
19:09	heno	[TOPIC] No-package bug-day
19:09	MootBot	New Topic:  No-package bug-day
19:09	heno	How is it going? :)
19:09	pedro_	I'm getting flooded by bug email that's a good sign :-)
19:10	heno	the green on the page looks nice and the graph too :)
19:10	bdmurray	Pretty well, I think.
19:10	bdmurray	The graph shows some huge drops due to some work I did earlier this week
19:10	heno	seems people have made a head start
19:10	bdmurray	I've stopped that for today though so it only shows bug day work.
19:11	heno	ok
19:11	bdmurray	We had some help on the list from the LoCo teams last Friday
19:11	heno	what packages do these end up with mostly?
19:11	heno	just a rough idea
19:11	bdmurray	I'd guess kernel
19:12	bdmurray	However, I think I could write a query to find out better
19:13	heno	bdmurray: will the new kernel package appear automatically on the top 100 bug list or do you have to add it?
19:13	heno	It had 50 when I looked this morning
19:13	bdmurray	heno: It will have to be added and that was done yesterday
19:14	heno	ah, thanks
19:15	heno	bdmurray: to http://people.ubuntu.com/~brian/testing_graphs/ ? I don't see it
19:16	bdmurray	In the "complete-graphs" section - http://people.ubuntu.com/~brian/complete-graphs/linux/
19:18	heno	ok, the ng-graphs. must update my bookmarks :)
19:18	heno	[TOPIC] Selecting the next bug day theme. see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/BugDayFocus
19:18	MootBot	New Topic:  Selecting the next bug day theme. see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/BugDayFocus
19:18	heno	should we be doing this at the meetings or is this done by decree of the bugmaster? ;)
19:19	bdmurray	I'm open to discussing it, but reserve the right to veto. ;)
19:20	Burgundavia	why not have people suggest this to bdmurrary and then he chooses?
19:20	Burgundavia	this suggestion stuff should probably happen out of band, to avoid wasting time at meetings
19:21	heno	Burgundavia: there is already a list of the key candidates at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/BugDayFocus , but yeah
19:21	Burgundavia	just my 2 cents, butting out now
19:21	heno	ok, so moving on :)
19:21	heno	[TOPIC] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/TODO - any takers for these?
19:21	MootBot	New Topic:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/TODO - any takers for these?
19:21	bdmurray	I think it is important that the package that we pick have debugging documentation and a stock reply
19:22	ogasawara	bdmurray: +1
19:22	heno	bdmurray: good point
19:22	bdmurray	So with that in mind it might be worth letting the compiz people know that they are a candidate for a bug day but we would need some stuff from them
19:22	heno	I've added a point about wiki pages to  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/TODO
19:23	ogasawara	I'll sign myself to some tasks on the the TODO
19:23	pedro_	I'll take the tags ones
19:23	ogasawara	cool, I'll take the 1st replies then
19:23	bdmurray	My intent with the To Do list was to have stuff for the community to do
19:23	bdmurray	Not y'all
19:24	pedro_	sourcercito: wanna take some ? :-)
19:24	heno	davmor2 also adds by email: "I would however like to ask if we could have a pop at improving the docs for the team. "
19:24	heno	sound like he's volunteering for that then ;)
19:25	heno	I wondered if we should add a 'was this page useful?' question to our pages
=== juliux is now known as juliux_hsv
19:25	sourcercito	i'll take the tags task
19:25	heno	and set up a malone product to track improvement requests on the debugging pages
19:25	sourcercito	if it's ok
19:26	pedro_	sourcercito: it's totally ok, thanks you!
19:26	heno	then we can assign those bugs to the responsible devs :)
19:26	sourcercito	noprob, anytime
19:26	bdmurray	In regards to the tags task I had a larger idea about that
19:26	bdmurray	The tags for a package should be listed at it's debugging page and the Bugs/Tags page should have an include for specific packages
19:27	bdmurray	To reduce redundancy and number of places to edit things
19:28	heno	you still have some generic tags, but yeah that makes sense
19:28	heno	how many tags do we expect for a given package though?
19:29	bdmurray	heno: in regards to the was this helpful maybe a table a the bottom with || Helped || Didn't Help ||  ?
19:29	heno	the kernel will have up to 10 perhaps, nm 2-3?
19:29	heno	bdmurray: yeah, where would the links go?
19:29	bdmurray	I personally think that going forward tags will be a useful to divide a package with a lot of bugs into more managable subgroups.
19:29	bdmurray	s/useful/useful way/
19:30	heno	we need a voting plugin moin ...
19:30	heno	bdmurray: so you imagine the same tags being used on a range of packages then
19:31	bdmurray	So the number of tags could grow a fair bit - especially with the kernel
19:31	bdmurray	heno: I think some tags apply across packages (metabug) and some can subdivide a package (feisty2gutsy for update-manager)
19:31	bdmurray	The majority being useful to subdivide a package
19:31	heno	ok, as long as we are systematic about it, that sounds fine
19:32	bdmurray	sourcercito: If you just want to add the tags to the Bugs/Tags page though that would be great.
19:32	heno	should we visit this TODO list regularly at these meetings?
19:33	sourcercito	bdmurray, sure
19:33	heno	ok, next
19:33	heno	[TOPIC] UDS activity report posted here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Boston/Proceedings
19:33	MootBot	New Topic:  UDS activity report posted here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Boston/Proceedings
19:34	heno	This is just FYI, since I asked for input last time
19:34	pedro_	cool!
19:34	bdmurray	Looked good to me
19:35	ogasawara	same here
19:35	heno	[TOPIC] Moving kernel bugs to the 'linux' package - how is that going; how can others help? -- https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/
19:35	MootBot	New Topic:  Moving kernel bugs to the 'linux' package - how is that going; how can others help? -- https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/
19:36	heno	56 bugs so far
19:36	heno	that may grow
19:36	ogasawara	I'm sure it will
19:36	ogasawara	I've done most of the 'hardy-kernel-candidate' ones
19:36	ogasawara	there's just a handfull left that I'm waiting for responses on
19:37	heno	I'm surprised there weren't more. Did you close some along the way?
19:37	ogasawara	yah
19:37	bdmurray	ogasawara: did you look into disabling the l-s-2.6.24 package somehow?
19:37	ogasawara	bdmurray: haven't looked into that yet
19:37	heno	right, so these are ones where the sumbitters are active, cool
19:38	ogasawara	heno: there are a lot of existing bugs in Gutsy that still need to be addressed
19:38	heno	does apport DTRT now with package name?
19:38	ogasawara	no idea
19:38	bdmurray	I don't think apport reports kernel crashes yet
19:39	heno	ogasawara: indeed. Is there a plan/schedule for that; can other's help?
19:39	ogasawara	other's can definitely help
19:39	bdmurray	We should be able to automate some of that
19:39	ogasawara	I've got a stock reply for testing the Hardy kernel
19:39	heno	would a bug day be appropriate?
19:39	ogasawara	definitely
19:39	bdmurray	I think we should wait until there is a Live CD with 2.6.24 though
19:39	heno	I guess volunteers often find kernel bugs tricky to triage
19:40	ogasawara	bdmurray: agreed.  I think reporters are a little hesitant to manually install
19:40	bdmurray	When is Alpha 2 scheduled for?
19:40	pedro_	is that planned for an Alpha?
19:40	pedro_	jeje
19:40	ogasawara	Alpha2 should have the new Hardy kernel
19:40	heno	dec 19th?
19:41	bdmurray	That's unfortunate with the brak
19:41	bdmurray	s/brak/break/
19:41	ogasawara	oh yah
19:41	heno	20th in fact
19:41	heno	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseSchedule
19:43	heno	we could do a kernel day the 19th ; it should be on the CDs by then
19:44	ogasawara	sounds good to me
19:44	heno	I'll make some periodic stabs at Gutsy kernel bugs as well (seeking guidance when needed)
19:44	heno	great, any other topics?
19:45	bdmurray	Any news on qa.ubuntu.com?
19:46	heno	I met with James yesterday and made the case for it again ...
19:46	heno	So, any day now :)
19:46	heno	We are not the only team having some trouble with this :/
19:47	heno	There are no real blockers apart from IS time
19:47	bdmurray	Okay.
19:48	bdmurray	I'm surprised at the quantity of bugs without a package coming in.
19:48	heno	bdmurray: I'll follow up with an email. could you send me a bullet point list of how you want to use the machines, for graphs queries etc.?
19:49	bdmurray	heno: sure
19:49	heno	bdmurray: coming in just now, or the existing pile?
19:49	bdmurray	It seems like every 5th bug or so doesn't have one
19:50	bdmurray	And assigning packages is not something I want to do all the time
19:50	ogasawara	bdmurray:
19:50	ogasawara	https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs
19:50	bdmurray	So I think we need to better advertise FindRightPackage and Help -> Report a problem
19:50	ogasawara	so I was noticing on there the "report a new bug" link defaults to just Ubuntu
19:51	bdmurray	Right, but before that I've put in the 2 things I just mentioned
19:51	heno	the LP page should have links to info and we should circulate links better
19:51	bdmurray	Maybe writing up Help -> Report a problem for the Fridge would help
19:51	bdmurray	Burgundavia: we could do that right?
19:52	heno	anyone care to comment on my mail to to bugsquad list about advertising these pages
19:52	heno	that's a good idea
19:53	bdmurray	heno: I personally try to educate bug reporters when I modify the bug and have added some of that to the Bugs/Replies page
19:53	bdmurray	Information about how to change the status of a bug and the importance of reporting it about a package etc
19:54	heno	yes, it could link to an even more generic page though
19:54	heno	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures IMO
19:55	bdmurray	I think that is reasonable for the domain specific stock replies
19:55	heno	and https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs even
19:55	Burgundavia	bdmurray: absolutely
19:56	bdmurray	"Please include the information requested at BLAH which is part of the Debugging Procedures page at BLAH-BLAH"
19:56	heno	creating a header linking between the pages will help
19:56	bdmurray	s/page/series/
19:57	heno	For further information on debugging see <URL>
19:58	heno	Ok, so we are 1 min from an hour
19:58	heno	let's close the meeting here
19:58	heno	#endmeeting
19:58	MootBot	Meeting finished at 19:58.}}}
