{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
06:03	fabbione	should we get started guys?
06:03	cjwatson	I'm just going through the list to figure out whom to ping
06:03	cjwatson	I assume Kees is off due to Thanksgiving as well
06:04	cjwatson	doko is on holiday
06:04	cjwatson	ogra is in Poland somewhere
06:04	pitti	Kees is there
06:04	cjwatson	seb128 has an appointment
06:05	cjwatson	ok, we'll see if Adam and Kees turn up later
06:06	cjwatson	general idea of this meeting is to go through specs and figure out which ones are on track for approval by next Thursday
06:06	cjwatson	or, more importantly, which ones aren't and may need to be rescued
06:06	pitti	@all: since Kees officially reports to elmo now, mdz said that Kees is not officially required for distro team meeting
06:06	cjwatson	pitti: aha, thanks
06:06	cjwatson	BenC: could you start? I have a phone call, brb
06:06	Mithrandir	cjwatson: given that it's 0400 in Adam's TZ, I suspect he might just have crashed.

06:06	BenC	* driver-device-manager: Drafting: will have this finished and approved by Nov 30th. Actually started on writing this already.
06:06	BenC	* retire-optimized-kernels: Retroactive spec, need to draft it.
06:06	BenC	* linux-kernel-crash-dump: Retargetted to feisty. Few small bits still to implement.
06:06	BenC	* libata-for-all-ata-disks: Retargetted to feisty. Have switched a few drivers to pata in 2.6.19. Ran into some issues with initramfs-tools not including them in the initrd, but fixed as of yesterday. Still some issues to figure out with regard to generic/ide-generic and ata_generic/pata_legacy migration.

06:07	Keybuk	BenC: we really really should talk about d-d-m given #u-k today.  let's schedule that for when you're less turkey-centric
06:07	BenC	Keybuk: definitely
06:07	pitti	BenC: do you really need to invest much effort for retire-optimized-kernels if it's done already anyway?
06:07	BenC	pitti: It's just a spec to record what we did
06:07	Keybuk	can we make kylem our bitch to write the kernel patches?
06:07	BenC	I only mention it because it's assigned to me :)
06:08	cjwatson	(Adam's moving to elmo's team as well, AFAIK, so ...)
06:08	cjwatson	BenC: ok, you seem to have an easy time :)
06:08	cjwatson	which of course makes you a prime target for rescuing other people's stuff ...
06:08	BenC	cjwatson: I'm willing to take on some other stuff if need be
06:09	BenC	I can delegate

06:09	cjwatson	  feisty-ubiquity: Approved. I should do some of this, but some would make good bite-size tasks for new developers. Should I be the assignee anyway?
06:09	cjwatson	  increase-hwdb-participation: Approved. None of this is actually going to happeen in the installer, so I'd appreciate somebody else volunteering as the assigneee here.
06:09	cjwatson	  intel-mac-support: Did not get discussion at UDS or allhands. I know roughly what needs to be done, so I intend to draft it anyway and we can at least make the situation a lot better than it is now.
06:09	cjwatson	  setup-console-under-usplash: Approved; working my way through the merge pile before uploading; unfortunately we have to merge xkeyboard-config first.
06:09	cjwatson	  simplify-oem-installation: Still in requirements gathering. There are some fairly obvious things we can do listed at the bottom of the brain-dump, but I don't know how far we can take this without better commercial input.
06:09	cjwatson	  ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: No more work done since just before UDS, but it's still just as approved as it was before.
06:09	cjwatson	  ubiquity-automation: Approved. We went for a fairly conservative set of options which should be a quick win.
06:09	cjwatson	  ubiquity-driver-updates: Drafting. We loosely agreed the business side at allhands, so I just need to put the pieces together and get it approved now.
06:09	cjwatson	  ubiquity-more-user-config: Discussion. We still need to talk to Launchpad developers about account creation; I didn't manage this at allhands ...
06:09	cjwatson	  ubiquity-oem: Not really started. Doesn't need significant discussion, but Maria indicated at allhands that this wasn't a priority for the Canonical OEM team, so I'll only complete it if I have time.
06:09	cjwatson	  ubiquity-release-notes: Approved. Should be easy.
06:09	cjwatson	  ubiquity-slideshow: Approved. Installer side should be straightforward, but it also needs artwork. Who should be the assignee?
06:09	cjwatson	note in case it's lost: looking for volunteers to implement increase-hwdb-participation
06:09	cjwatson	I suspect I'll need to ask mdz later about the who-should-be-assignee questions
06:10	cjwatson	ubiquity-more-user-config is really the one in most trouble, so I'll try to get that rescued somewhat tomorroow
06:10	cjwatson	-o
06:11	cjwatson	seriously tempted to ignore the oem stuff as I doubt I'm going to get clear enough requirements

06:11	pitti	cjwatson: will that replace the current oem-config package? or will both be supported?
06:12	pitti	(I'm asking because oem-config seems to have quite a number of hiccups)
06:12	cjwatson	pitti: the plans in simplify-oem-installation were to improve oem-config; one of my suggestions in there was to build it from ubiquity, since internally they're similar
06:12	pitti	ah, that's great
06:12	cjwatson	I suspect regardless of spec approval I'll at least try to fix bugs *shrug*
06:13	Mithrandir	cjwatson: is increase-hwdb-participation as simple as it looks?
06:13	cjwatson	Mithrandir: as specced, I think so
06:13	cjwatson	anyway, we can talk about it later
06:13	mvo	I would be interessted in increase-hwdb-participation but I supsect that I will not have time because of my specs
06:14	Mithrandir	cjwatson: if so, I can probably do it.  It _looks_ like an hour or so of work, mostly in casper.
06:14	cjwatson	Mithrandir: needs to be outside casper I think, due to the after-first-reboot requirement
=== mvo thinks the improved-hwdb spec should include the goal to make hwdb-client transltable
06:14	cjwatson	anyway, later :)
06:14	cjwatson	is dholbach around anywhere, or on holiday?
06:14	Mithrandir	he was around earlier today.

06:14	cjwatson	fabbione: next
06:14	fabbione	Done
06:14	fabbione	* clean up a couple of specs.
06:14	fabbione	* merges.
06:14	fabbione	* extra bug fixing in mdadm to have bootable feisty.
06:14	fabbione	* SRU for lvm2 (dapper and edgy).
06:14	fabbione	* debugging pata_via init race.
06:14	fabbione	* update some other packages (ocfs2-tools, openais, redhat-cluster-suite).
06:14	cjwatson	(later => #ubuntu-devel)
06:14	fabbione	* wrote metacode for MAU support in the kernel.
06:14	fabbione	* recovering from jetlag (on going).
06:14	fabbione	To do
06:14	fabbione	* start working specs implementations.
06:14	fabbione	* get last specs approved.
06:14	fabbione	* change meeting report layout to match specs status.

06:14	cjwatson	fabbione: EXPN MAU?
06:15	fabbione	cjwatson: it's a math unit optimized to do some mul for ssl
06:15	cjwatson	mvo: talk with ogra about that when he's around
06:16	fabbione	cjwatson:  i am deliberatly avoiding SSL accelerator because it's like a dedicated FPU that does only 3 things
06:16	fabbione	cjwatson: and *casually* they are very often used in SSL operations
06:16	cjwatson	fabbione: is that for sparc64-niagara-ssl-accelerator?
06:17	fabbione	cjwatson: yes
06:15	mvo	cjwatson: dholbach is on the road, he send his meeting notes to mdz AFAIK
=== cjwatson tries to mentally transform fabbione's report into per-spec
06:17	fabbione	cjwatson: yes sorry.. if forgot the spec format for this meeting
06:17	fabbione	<fabbione>  * update some other packages (ocfs2-tools, openais, redhat-cluster-suite). -> feisty-ha-clusters
06:17	cjwatson	so you have ubuntu-feisty-ha-clusters (low), integrity-check (low) to get approved as well as s-n-s-a
06:18	fabbione	i have more but they are pending approval orhave been excluded from discussion at uds
06:18	cjwatson	but they're pending-approval so presumably those are not too badly off
06:18	fabbione	exactly
06:18	cjwatson	ok, thanks

06:18	cjwatson	heno: next
06:19	heno	* access-gdm - Should be simple enough with upstream doing work on it. Our default GDM theme is not a11y-capable yet though -- need to look into that.
06:19	heno	* braille-support - Pending Review. cjwatson and Keybuk should have another look at it.
06:19	heno	* color-filters - Spec still needs completing. Libs vare available for testing from upstream but no config GUI has been made AFAIK.
06:19	heno	* common-at-conf -- spec needs to be tightened and recent upstream work needs taking into account.
06:19	heno	* multilingual-speech - Should be split up into a Fiesty and a Fiesty+1 spec, with the former adding more language files to our repos (universe and multiverse) and the later would include UI and Just Works stuff.
06:19	heno	* orca-laptop-support - Approved. good progress -- laptop layout now available for testing from upstream.
06:19	heno	* atspi-testing-by-default -- I'd like feedback from the team on this. It is already implemented in test builds of Gnome; does that mean we get it automatically? Are there any major objections to this? ... it will slow systems down a bit.

06:19	cjwatson	heno: most of your specs still seem to be in New. Is that an accurate reflection?
06:20	cjwatson	mouse-tweaks, onboard-desktop-control, onboard-switching?
06:20	heno	cjwatson: some will not be going forward due to general lack of community support, what should be done with those?
06:21	heno	Yes, I posted several such specs before UDS but they don't have steam ATM
06:21	cjwatson	if they're just a bad idea, there's an Obsolete status or similar, and use the status whiteboard; if they won't happen *yet*, I think Deferred
06:21	heno	the onboard stuff needs time from chris, etc
06:22	cjwatson	but at any rate note the status in the whiteboard
06:22	heno	ok, I'm drafter, registrant, but was not planning to have them assigned to me
06:22	heno	esp. the onboard ones
06:22	heno	ok, will do
06:23	Keybuk	who were you planning them to be assigned to?
06:23	cjwatson	my main concerns about atspi-testing-by-default are (a) if it's *too* broken it could seriously impede development, (b) how do we arrange to turn it off again for people who install milestone releases of feisty and then upgrae?
06:23	cjwatson	upgrade
06:23	heno	community members
06:24	heno	cjwatson: I agree on both of those. I can research (b) a bit
06:24	cjwatson	if they're understood but just lack implementation time, please try to get them drafted so that people can pick them up even if there's nobody available right now
06:25	heno	Chris Jones may still work on onboard stuff
06:25	heno	cjwatson: right, ok
06:25	heno	some might be suitable for next years GSoC
06:26	cjwatson	ok, thanks heno; we can discuss further later

06:26	cjwatson	iwj: next
06:26	heno	we are planning a joint pool of specs/candidates across several FOSS projects
06:26	iwj	automated-testing-deployment: Approved, implementation Deferred from edgy.  Work will continue.
06:26	iwj	udev-lvm: Pending Approval by mdz.
06:26	iwj	gnome-app-install-codecs: Drafting.  Awaiting final details of the codec specifier string; apparently gstreamer folks are working on this.
06:26	iwj	winmodem-support: New.  Spec is unclear and I think needs discussion, I suggest deferring to feisty+1.
06:26	iwj	package-dependency-field-breaks: Approved / Beta Available.  Should be ready for full deployment now; I will rerun my search-for-candidates.
06:26	iwj	usb-adsl-modems: Approved / Unknown.  Lacking an Assignee.  It would be nice to assign this to someone who understands the subject.
06:27	iwj	consistent-login-screen: Review.  There seems to be a shortage of reviewers today.  It seemed odd to review my own spec, so I didn't.
06:27	iwj	dbus-restarts: Drafting.  This needs discussion I think.  Why was it declined for uds-mtv ?
06:27	iwj	edgy-fontconfig: New.  There is no spec and the subject needs discussion.  I suggest deferring (or rejecting).

06:28	rodarvus	iwj, edgy-fontconfig is a good spec. the real problem is that we basically got no one with deep fontconfig knowledge at UDS MTV
06:28	cjwatson	I think dbus-restarts was declined because it was controversial and properly belonged upstream (note: just the messenger)
06:29	cjwatson	rodarvus: err, we had Keith Packard - how much more knowledgeable do you want? :P
06:29	iwj	cjwatson: Um.
06:29	Keybuk	actually it was declined because nobody subscribed to it
06:29	iwj	Keybuk: That's fair enough.
06:29	Keybuk	mdz only wanted things to be on the schedule if there were multiple people to discuss it
06:29	rodarvus	cjwatson, keithp was there for one morning, and had specs during all the time he was there :)
06:29	iwj	cjwatson: dbus-restarts really needs to be done and every one of us knows that upstream are on crack.
06:29	Keybuk	where only the assignee/drafter was there, they may as well just draft it themselves and get it approved as a release goal directly
06:29	cjwatson	iwj: I agree
06:29	rodarvus	but you're right, of course
06:30	iwj	So it's not controversial here and we should just do it.  But I can't draft it because I don't know dbus quite well enough.
06:30	cjwatson	iwj: gnome-app-install-codecs> do we have a timescale for gstreamer feedback?
06:30	iwj	Ryan Lortie says `actively being worked on'.
06:30	cjwatson	any volunteers for usb-adsl-modems? I have some experience with one of the models in question, but no time
06:30	pitti	iwj: dbus-restart doesn't seem painfully urgent; and it is yet to be seen whether it's a good idea for a package to restart a daemon in the user's session
06:30	iwj	Mail yesterday at 1700Z.  No reply from the people who are `actively [working] ' on it ...
06:31	cjwatson	I've made a note to review consistent-login-screen
06:31	iwj	pitti: uh ?  That's not the suggestion.  But let's not have the bof now.
06:31	iwj	cjwatson: Thanks.
06:31	cjwatson	perhaps you two can discuss it in #ubuntu-devel later
06:31	pitti	right
06:31	iwj	Right.
06:32	cjwatson	also to talk to mdz about edgy-fontconfig
06:32	iwj	Anyway, I'll chase the codec thing.
06:32	iwj	It does seem to have momentum, we just need to make sure the communication is working.
06:32	cjwatson	winmodem-support is annoying but if we do usb-adsl-support at least we'll improve the most common modern class of dialup
06:32	cjwatson	er, dialup-a-like
06:32	iwj	*snort*
06:33	cjwatson	and there is not a lot of developer traction, unfortunately
06:33	iwj	Yes.
06:33	cjwatson	ok, thanks, I have copious notes now :)
06:33	iwj	It's a shame that towsonu2003 couldn't make it to uds to explain it to us.
06:33	cjwatson	I'll have another read through it and see if there's low-hanging fruit

06:33	cjwatson	Riddell: next
06:34	Riddell	done:
06:34	Riddell	* all of KDE main merged and updated, send patches upstream, packaging koffice 1.6.1, and security fun with
06:34	Riddell	todo:
06:34	Riddell	* merge rest of Kubuntu packages and others with my name on them
06:34	Riddell	* on holiday next week
06:34	Riddell	specs:
06:34	Riddell	1 being reviewed:
06:34	Riddell	  kubuntu-ubiquity-migration-assistant
06:34	Riddell	bunch needing approval:
06:34	Riddell	  (community) kubuntu-multimedia-simplification, kubuntu-samba-integration, kubuntu-feisty-laptop, kubuntu-feisty-networking
06:34	Riddell	  (artwork) kubuntu-feisty-artwork*
06:34	Riddell	  (mine) kubuntu-feisty-adept-changes, kubuntu-ubiquity-migration-assistant
06:34	Riddell	approved specs:
06:34	Riddell	  kubuntu-feisty-kde4-plan, would be a good task for an abitious MOTU
06:34	Riddell	  kubuntu-update-manager, most important one, still trying to contact upstream with questions about embedded konsole
06:34	Riddell	  kubuntu-feisty-language-selector, approved and qt 4 port already done by josef
06:34	Riddell	  kubuntu-feisty-ubiquity, sebas volunteered to help with qt 4 port

06:34	Riddell	fabbione: iwj was good enough to review kubuntu-ubiquity-migration-assistant, so hopefully that'll need approval soon too
06:35	fabbione	Riddell: ok
06:35	cjwatson	I'll try to pick up approvals tomorrow/Monday once I'm done with my own specs
06:35	cjwatson	what's the * beside kubuntu-feisty-artwork?
06:36	Riddell	cjwatson: it's about 5 specs for each of the artwork parts
06:36	Riddell	the specs themselves are very short
06:36	cjwatson	oh I see, a wildcard
06:37	cjwatson	kubuntu-gdebi, kubuntu-hwdb-usability, kubuntu-feisty-hal-device-manager, kubuntu-onboard?
06:37	Riddell	all deferred
06:38	cjwatson	ok, can you mark them as such?
06:38	Riddell	sure
06:39	cjwatson	thanks

06:40	cjwatson	kylem: anything from you? I know you probably don't have much in the way of specs (yet) ...
06:40	kylem	moo.
06:40	kylem	done:
06:40	kylem	* ubuntu-dapper-updates.git up to date with patches from community
06:40	kylem	* ubuntu-edgy-updates.git up to date with backports/patches from dapper-updates
06:40	kylem	* both trees built on i386/generic
06:40	kylem	* pushed to kernel.org
06:40	kylem	todo:
06:40	kylem	* receive more marching orders
06:40	kylem	* figure out why git on rookery hates me
06:40	kylem	specs:
06:40	kylem	* none assigned

06:41	cjwatson	there's a kernel in dapper-proposed (IIRC) that I need to figure out what to do with
06:41	pitti	kylem: we need a kernel security update soon; I would like to talk to you about that
06:41	cjwatson	it's like ten weeks old, but we should probably talk through it at some point
06:41	kylem	ok.
06:42	cjwatson	right, I assume Ben will take care of most of your marching orders for now. Are you taking primary responsibility for stable release maintenance?
06:42	kylem	you'd have to ask Ben :)
06:43	pitti	alright, let's talk about this in #u-k tomorrow
06:44	kylem	sure.
06:44	cjwatson	ok, thanks

06:44	cjwatson	pitti: next
06:44	pitti	Done:
06:44	pitti	* vacation until yesterday
06:44	pitti	* caught up with email backlog, security review, and kernel security issues
06:44	pitti	Todo:
06:44	pitti	* find a spare month to catch up with my fat bugs inbox, which I didn't dare to open in the last two weeks
06:44	pitti	* start implementing cleanup-audio-jumble and zero-configuration-networking, since these are most urgent and block other specs
06:44	pitti	My feisty goals:
06:44	pitti	* zero-configuration-networking: approved, did not start any implementation yet; played around with the stuff locally, avahi-autoipd works nicely, current libnss-mdns does not work at all for me, needs more work; approx. 2 days work
06:44	pitti	* cleanup-audio-jumble: pending approval; didn't have an assignee yet, I signed up for this one; did some initial tests, looks good; required code changes will take about a day, changing the system to use pulse consistently another day
06:44	pitti	* gnome-mount: approved, and used by default in feisty; still needed: security overhaul of hal backend, and de-gnome-ification of password dialog to make it appropriate for XFCE; approx. 3 days work
06:44	pitti	* mount-all-local-filesystems: approved, not started yet; shoulnd't take more than one or two days to get it working
06:44	pitti	* apport-improvements: not discussed at UDS; did some talks to kylem and BenC for getting the kernel side right, and talked to lifeless about python crash interception and general code structure cleanup; a lot of work to implement all improvements, but not scheduled for feisty, so low-prio
06:44	pitti	* crash-reporting: not discussed at UDS, got an ad-hoc session on allhands; client/apport side isn't too complicated, but writing the server side is a considerable amount of work; needs more discussion with stub and LP team
06:45	pitti	* bug-reporting-tool: pending approval, current assignee is sfllaw, but since most of this spec deals with apport changes, I'll probably end up doing the client side (I estimate 1-2 days); I have no idea how much work the Malone side is (cloakroom and linking submitted stuff to bug)
06:45	pitti	* malone-cve-tracking: only got a private ad-hoc session with keescook; not a high-pri

06:45	cjwatson	bug mailbox> I feel your pain
06:45	pitti	*shudder*
06:45	Keybuk	I've actually caught up on my bugs
=== pitti bets 500 bugs and grabs another ace from his sleeve
06:45	Keybuk	I spend most of today on it
06:45	Mithrandir	pitti: hmm, how does zero-configuration-networking hook into network-roaming?
06:46	kylem	bug mailbox? you mean you don't use inbox?
06:46	Keybuk	Mithrandir: requires n-m to start avahi-autoipd for "create/join other network"
06:46	pitti	Mithrandir: the spec talks about the things that n-m needs to learn
06:46	iwj	pitti: mount-all-local-filesystems> what about the mad journal replay problem ?
06:46	pitti	Mithrandir: like invoking avahi-autoipd, etc.
06:46	cjwatson	kylem: I did until it crushed me
06:46	Mithrandir	pitti: ok.  Can we talk about this later or tomorrow?
06:46	pitti	Mithrandir: sure
06:46	pitti	this certainly requires some coordination
06:46	rodarvus	kylem, I suppose you subscribe to kernel bugs, right?
06:46	cjwatson	pitti: automatic-printer-conf?
06:46	kylem	rodarvus, indeed.
06:47	pitti	iwj: no clue, can we discuss this in #u-d?
06:47	iwj	Sure.
06:47	pitti	cjwatson: not scheduled for feisty, and I'm afraid I won't have time for that
06:47	pitti	cjwatson: however, when we get printerdrake this will mostly implement itself
06:48	cjwatson	pitti: apport-improvements is currently medium; we should probably talk about how much is possible
06:48	pitti	I'd really like to use the new kernel's 'pipes in core patterns' approach
06:49	pitti	but that requires a kernel fix
06:49	cjwatson	it would be nice to get that one at least drafted so that others can be found to help out
06:49	tkamppeter	printerdrake is an approved spec, and pitti told me on the UDS that he wanted to download my tarball and start a first adaptation to Ubuntu around two weeks after the UDS.
06:49	pitti	right, I'm trying to do that ^
06:49	pitti	cjwatson: I'll draft a subset of the improvements then
06:49	tkamppeter	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/printerdrake
06:49	cjwatson	pitti: ok, thanks

06:50	cjwatson	mvo: next
06:50	mvo	Approved specs:
06:50	mvo	- auto-dist-upgrade-testing
06:50	mvo	- binary-driver-education
06:50	mvo	- common-customizations
06:50	mvo	- enabling-additional-components
06:50	mvo	- server-upgrade-tool
06:51	mvo	Pending approval:
06:51	mvo	- dist-upgrader-fixes
06:51	mvo	Drafting:
06:51	mvo	- dynamic-mirror-decisions: I need to add input from James that I got during AllHands
06:51	mvo	- apt-sha256: not sure it needs a full spec, its straightforward to implement
06:51	mvo	- apt-sync: work on integrating the SoC work on incremental updates into apt
06:51	mvo	- dist-upgrader-arch-any: make sure the upgrader can use binary-any components (e.g. backports). Its pretty clear how to implement it, not sure it needs a full spec

06:52	cjwatson	incremental updates> not pdiffs, right? does that require LP integration?
06:53	mvo	cjwatson: no, zsync/rsync based updates. it would require apt-ftparchive/soyuz integration, but its all pretty experimental currently, not sure it can be done in feisty timeframe
06:53	mvo	I have a test repository working on people
06:53	cjwatson	I'm not concerned about apt-sha256 or dist-upgrader-arch-any from the sound of things
06:53	Keybuk	given the size of the soyuz team, I'd imagine it'd be hard finding the resources
06:53	Keybuk	unless you want to hack on LP
06:53	cjwatson	well, except that apt-sha256 probably needs a soyuz change
06:53	cjwatson	yes, anything that needs LP integration needs to be done massively far in advance
06:54	mvo	cjwatson: right, but the apt-sha256 change should be small, it only writes the Release file itself, the rest is done via apt-ftparchive
06:54	cjwatson	mvo: dependency-removal?
06:54	cjwatson	mvo: ... assuming that soyuz keeps on using apt-ftparchive, which doesn't seem entirely definite
06:55	mvo	cjwatson: I'm not sure why it is in NEW. it was fully speced and approved. and its in edgy. its just not turned on by default (it just prints)
06:55	mvo	cjwatson: oh? it seems to me that if the soyuz team is very small and has trouble keeping up that rewriting apt-ftparchive might not be the best thing to do
06:56	cjwatson	mvo: feel free to draft whatever's still needed and move it out of new (possibly pointing it at a different wiki page or something)
06:56	mvo	cjwatson: thanks, I will
06:56	cjwatson	mvo: well, I agree, but they've always had performance concerns with apt-ftparchive and want to just dump the data out of the database
06:56	cjwatson	anyway, later
06:57	mvo	*nod*
06:57	cjwatson	mvo: dynamic-mirror-decisions does not seem to address automatic selection at all yet - is that planned?
06:57	mvo	cjwatson: yes, it was unclear to me what is really needed. but I talked to James during allhands and have a pretty good idea now
06:57	mvo	I need to add it to the spec though
06:57	cjwatson	ok, please do
06:57	cjwatson	thanks

06:58	cjwatson	rodarvus: next
06:58	rodarvus	- accelerated-x: under review. I asked Scott to hold the Approval of this spec until we received release notes from Christina. This is well underway, so please feel free to Review it now
06:58	rodarvus	- composite-by-default: drafting. Scope has changed since last BoF meeting on UDS MTV. Was "composite *not* really by default, but easily enabled", now became "composite by default". The three remaining focal points of the drafting are:
06:58	rodarvus	  - Making a table, with an in depth comparison of Beryl and Compiz, plus features that need to be met by both of them, so the Technical Board can make the decision when the time comes (Feature Freeze, I suppose?). This comparison is underway, I expect to have it ready tomorrow
06:58	rodarvus	  - Inheriting stuff from 'desktop-effects' package into a semi-novelty design, to accomodate the fact that we'll be the first distro using composite by default. This information will also be added to the spec
06:58	rodarvus	  - Researching graceful fallback of Beryl/Compiz to Metacity (and how to store that into the config file).
06:58	rodarvus	- bullet-proof-x: needs to be drafted, but is blocked by 'composite-by-default', which is of higher priority
06:58	rodarvus	- simple-x-mode-selection: likewise
06:58	rodarvus	- maemo-on-ubuntu: we had almost a day of discussion at UDS MTV for this spec, but it needs legal feedback from Nokia, before I can actually draft it. (so problems are not of technical nature, and I'm not sure if it will happen for feisty)
06:58	rodarvus	- I also have two other edubuntu-related specs, which I plan to talk to ogra about, when he is here (but they are already approved)
06:58	rodarvus	Remarks:
06:58	rodarvus	- I expect composite-by-default to be ready for the first round of Review tomorrow. Hopefully the first two remaining items will be addressed. 'graceful fallback' is not quite there, unfortunately
06:58	rodarvus	- the two specs *will* be ready before Nov 30th. I'll finish them on Monday, even if composite-by-default is not there yet

06:59	Keybuk	rodarvus: Feature Freeze is the plan
06:59	rodarvus	*nods*
06:59	cjwatson	or distro sprint?
=== pitti wonders how Feisty's goal of 'good hardware support' and 'compiz by default' go together
06:59	cjwatson	pitti: fallback to metacity
06:59	rodarvus	heh
06:59	Keybuk	that way teams can coalesce around both projects, and we can evaluate how much support we're likely to get, as well as what shape they're both in
07:00	rodarvus	pitti, the challenge of having good hardware support, with composite window manager is the biggest challenge of accelerated-x and composite-by-default
07:01	cjwatson	how is simple-x-mode-selection blocked by composite-by-default?
07:01	rodarvus	and the reason why these two specs are hard to get approved and implemented right
07:01	pitti	rodarvus: (just bitching that feisty breaks both my computers ATM, but nevermind)
07:01	zul	is there going to be a way of manually turning off compiz?
07:01	rodarvus	cjwatson, just time constraints
07:01	rodarvus	as mentioned above, I'll draft the two remaining specs monday, regardless if I have composite-by-default ready for review by the
07:02	rodarvus	then
07:02	cjwatson	rodarvus: ah, I misunderstood "likewise"
07:02	cjwatson	ok, thanks, let me know when I can look over bullet-proof-x
07:02	rodarvus	-EBADGRAMMAR
07:02	rodarvus	cjwatson, sure
07:03	rodarvus	Keybuk, please take a look at accelerated-x when you can. I hope it won't need another round of drafting, but you never know

07:02	cjwatson	Keybuk: next
07:03	Keybuk	Spec Status
07:03	Keybuk	udev specs: these are only a few hours work each, yet eliminate a major source of race conditions and problems that we have.  My plan is to implement these as a set once the upstart changes have been done.
07:03	Keybuk	- udev-device-mapper: [approved]
07:03	Keybuk	- udev-mdadm: [implemented]  with fabbione's merge of mdadm, and my upload of udev, this should be working
07:03	Keybuk	- udev-evms: [pending approval - mdz]
07:03	Keybuk	- udev-lvm: [pending approval - mdz]
07:03	Keybuk	   + I don't believe there were major concerns with the above two specs, just drafting issues.
07:03	Keybuk	slick boot specs: one of Mark's goals for feisty.  Fortunately there's not much "real work" here.
07:04	Keybuk	- slick-boot: [pending approval  - sabdfl]  this mostly ended up as a todo list spec
07:04	Keybuk	- setup-console-under-usplash: [really cjwatson's]  almost done?
07:04	Keybuk	- usplash-fsck-progress: [drafting]  not yet started on this one, it's one of those things that's probably more effort to draft than it is to implement.
07:04	Keybuk	- boot-messages: [drafting]  coupled with above really, needs some discussion and decisions how to implement - will land quite late in the cycle; if it misses, the edgy stuff is "good enough"
07:04	Keybuk	- no-usplash-timeout: [review - cjwatson]  trivial spec just to make things more seamless
07:04	Keybuk	- usplash-until-desktop: [blocked and declined]  it turns out that this isn't possible; most X drivers need to start in a text mode, otherwise they can't set the mode back when you Ctrl-Alt-F1 back later.

07:04	cjwatson	Keybuk: slick-boot depends on usplash-until-desktop, which can't happen, doesn't it?
07:04	Keybuk	replacement-initscripts: [drafting]  Spec has a draft brain storm, this one will be in flux until it's actually implemented.  Basically like streamlined-boot before; the spec will document what happened, not what's planned.
07:04	Keybuk	automake-transition: [deferred from edgy - implemented!]  Debian have almost finished this transition, marked it implemented as it's only half a dozen unmaintained packages that haven't been transitioned now.  Automake 1.10 FTW!
07:04	Keybuk	techboard-2006: [pending approval - sabdfl]  Can mdz poke him? :p
07:04	Keybuk	new-pci-ids: [new]  someone (mdz!) stuffed this in my queue.  the summary is bogus, it's practically impossi
07:04	Keybuk	impossible to do today.  we could do this properly with some heavy kernel hackery that would give us lots and lots of wins.
07:04	cjwatson	Keybuk: new-pci-ids is supposed to use the new_id thing in /sys
07:04	Keybuk	cjwatson: I could rename it to "slickish-boot", but I can't be arsed :p  the other gains are worthwhile
07:04	Keybuk	cjwatson: which doesn't work
07:04	cjwatson	uh?
07:05	cjwatson	#ubuntu-devel
07:05	Keybuk	indeed, or read the #ubuntu-kernel log from today
07:05	Keybuk	this dovetails nicely with BenC's device-driver-manager thing
07:05	Keybuk	we both want to do the same evil thing to the kernel
07:05	Mithrandir	Keybuk: usplash-until-desktop> too hard to save the mode in the initramfs?
07:05	cjwatson	setup-console-under-usplash should land tomorrowish at which point testing would be very nice
07:06	cjwatson	I'll go and read up on the kernel stuff later
07:06	Keybuk	Mithrandir: it's an X driver thing apparently, mjg59 knows more
07:07	cjwatson	I think the X driver saves the registers
07:07	cjwatson	</handwave>
07:07	cjwatson	I browsed through replacement-initscripts briefly; the big graph melted my eyes but didn't make me scream too badly
07:08	cjwatson	will look again later
07:08	Mithrandir	cjwatson: yes, and we should (COUGH) be able to save that when usplash starts.  Might be bloody painful, though.
07:08	cjwatson	Keybuk: syslog-improvements?
07:08	Keybuk	cjwatson: not accepted for feisty
07:08	Keybuk	I doubt I'll have time
07:08	cjwatson	Keybuk: how come all the obsolete upstart specs?
07:09	Keybuk	not accepted for feisty
07:09	cjwatson	that seems like Deferred not Obsolete
07:09	Keybuk	and some of them make more sense under /products/upstart
07:09	mjg59	There's no practical way to avoid a switch to text mode before a switch to X
07:10	mjg59	Since otherwise X has no idea what mode to switch back to
07:11	Mithrandir	mjg59: as I've said earlier; assuming we can easily grab that bit of code out of X, usplash could grab it and save it somewhere and X could be taught to use that.
07:11	mjg59	Mithrandir: "that bit of code" is per-driver
07:12	rodarvus	mjg59, until we have randr 1.2, I suppose?
07:12	rodarvus	(which should be 7.3)
07:12	mjg59	rodarvus: 7.2.1 with luck, but still, no
07:13	rodarvus	I thought this bit was about to be generalized into randr 1.2

07:10	cjwatson	Keybuk: thanks

07:10	cjwatson	I have seb128's update
07:11	cjwatson	specs:
07:11	cjwatson	* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/easy-codec-installation: spec approved, first version of the library packaged (not uploaded yet, should be soon). Next step is waiting for gstreamer upstream
07:11	cjwatson	* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/tab-consistency:
07:11	cjwatson	pending approval, not started yet
07:11	cjwatson	* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-slab:
07:11	cjwatson	pending review, package available to universe
07:11	cjwatson	.
07:11	cjwatson	Done:
07:11	cjwatson	* started catching up on mails backlog
07:11	cjwatson	* got debug backtraces for a stack of edgy crashers before updating to
07:11	cjwatson	feisty
07:11	cjwatson	* started cleaning up the bugs backlog
07:11	cjwatson	* started on GNOME 2.17 packaging
07:11	cjwatson	.
07:11	cjwatson	To do:
07:11	cjwatson	* syncs with Debian
07:11	cjwatson	* keep catching up with bugs and mails backlog

07:12	cjwatson	seb seems well enough sorted, once review happens

07:12	cjwatson	Mithrandir: next
07:12	Mithrandir	misc: learning the ropes as an archive team member.  Doing a few merges, been feeling ill-ish since I got home, so trying to recover.  Discussion with mdke about how to handle string changes post-stringfreeze (and in SRUs).
07:12	Mithrandir	specs: no progress; I haven't started working on those.
07:12	Mithrandir	next week: Herd 1

07:13	cjwatson	installer is about two-thirds merged, but ubiquity is going to need some substantial changes for the new partman-auto, so we'll see how well things work for next week
07:13	cjwatson	going as fast as I can on that
07:14	Riddell	Mithrandir: I'm on holiday next week, I'll ask the other kubuntu developers to help with herd 1, but it may not happen for kubuntu
07:14	Mithrandir	Riddell: ok
07:14	Mithrandir	cjwatson: I'd be somewhat surprised if we manage to release on time, but I'll try.
07:15	cjwatson	Mithrandir: all your specs are approved with the exception of get-rid-of-etc-resolv-conf (not happening?) and grub2 (mostly there last time I checked)
07:15	Mithrandir	cjwatson: g-r-o-e-r-c might not be happening; I'd like to discuss it a bit in-person
07:15	Keybuk	Mithrandir: that name still scares the willies out of me every time I see it
07:15	cjwatson	might make more sense for feisty+1
07:15	Keybuk	Ubuntu Herd CD 1
07:16	Keybuk	SO WRONG
07:16	Mithrandir	grub2 is pending approval, I think it should be fine.
07:16	Mithrandir	Keybuk: you read it as Hurd?
07:16	Keybuk	Mithrandir: exactly
07:16	rodarvus	Mithrandir, FeistyReleaseSchedule doesn't mentions which day the archive will be frozen. Do you have any specific day in mind?
07:16	cjwatson	rodarvus: particularly with early releases, it inevitably depends on whether stuff actually works
07:17	cjwatson	there's no real point freezing until the installer is in place and the system at least kind of boots sometimes
07:17	Mithrandir	rodarvus: usually the day or two days before, but that's a per-release thing.
07:17	cjwatson	which I hear has been a bit rocky to date in feisty ;)
07:17	cjwatson	ok, thanks Mithrandir
07:17	rodarvus	*nods*, I was assuming "if all goes well", of course
07:17	rodarvus	thanks

07:17	cjwatson	tkamppeter: do you have anything?
07:17	tkamppeter	Yes.\
07:18	tkamppeter	Report Nov  3 - Nov 23, 2006
07:18	tkamppeter	FEATURES WITH ME INVOLVED:
07:18	tkamppeter	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/people/till-kamppeter/+specs
07:18	tkamppeter	UDS outcomes:
07:18	tkamppeter	- "Easy configuration of printer sharing" -> Accepted
07:18	tkamppeter	- "Replace gnome-cups-manager by printerdrake" -> Accepted
07:18	tkamppeter	- "Automatic download of printer drivers through the internet" -> Pending
07:18	tkamppeter	  Approval
07:18	tkamppeter	- "Automatic hotplug printer configuration" -> Waits for draft by pitti
07:18	tkamppeter	Had no sessions on UDS:
07:18	tkamppeter	- "PPDFileStructureSpecification" -> Fixes on Foomatic done to avoid
07:18	tkamppeter	  duplicate or unusable entries, new FHS extension for printer drivers
07:18	tkamppeter	  and PPDs (in LSB 3.2) assures that also third-party drivers and PPDs
07:18	tkamppeter	  integrate well
07:18	tkamppeter	- "applications-printing" -> Common printing dialogs and interfaces are
07:18	tkamppeter	  worked out by Portland and OpenUsability projects, so no application
07:18	tkamppeter	  hacking for Ubuntu recommended, will appear at the earliest in Feisty+1.
07:18	tkamppeter	- "Make PDF "Printer" functionality for CUPS as default" -> Not much missing
07:18	tkamppeter	  for implementing it, best is to report appropriate bugs against the
07:18	tkamppeter	  cups-pdf package.
07:18	tkamppeter	DONE:
07:18	tkamppeter	- Submitted foomatic-db_20061122-0ubuntu1: Fixes bug 19437, bug 39847,
07:18	Ubugtu	Malone bug 19437 in foomatic-db "OKIPage 4W printer problems" [Medium,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/19437
07:18	Ubugtu	Malone bug 39847 in ubuntu-meta "ubuntu-desktop should depend on linuxprinting.org-ppds for PostScript PPDs" [Medium,Fix committed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/39847
07:18	tkamppeter	  bug 49805, bug 51944, bug 64238, bug 70425, bug 71871, and several bugs
07:18	Ubugtu	Malone bug 49805 in foomatic-db "PPD for LaserJet 6MP does not have an option for auto tray selection" [Medium,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/49805
07:18	Ubugtu	Malone bug 51944 in foomatic-db "Brother MFD8820 driver is not present" [Low,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/51944
07:18	tkamppeter	  reported on http://forums.linuxprinting.org/
07:18	Ubugtu	Malone bug 64238 in foomatic-db "HP 4240 and 4250 ppd files appear to have syntax errors" [Low,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/64238
07:18	Ubugtu	Malone bug 70425 in foomatic-db "Default driver for Samsung ML-1750 is not "perfect"" [Low,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/70425
07:18	tkamppeter	  In addition, printer setup tools with direct CUPS support (KDE Printing
07:18	Ubugtu	Malone bug 71871 in foomatic-db "Kyocera Mita FS-1010 driver is perhaps incorrect" [Medium,In progress]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/71871
07:18	tkamppeter	  Manager, foomatic-gui, and system-config-printer AFAIR) will not show
07:19	tkamppeter	  entries for drivers with empty command line prototype.
07:19	tkamppeter	- Submitted foo2zjs_20060625dfsg-4ubuntu1: Fixes bug 65618
07:19	Ubugtu	Malone bug 65618 in foo2zjs "Firmware upload to LJ 1000/1005/1008/1020 broken (fix to be proposed as Edgy update)" [Medium,Fix committed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/65618
07:19	tkamppeter	- Submitted foo2zjs_20060625dfsg-2ubuntu2: Fixes bug 65618 in Edgy
07:19	tkamppeter	- Answered to bug reports
07:19	tkamppeter	Ubugtu? Where are you?
07:19	tkamppeter	linuxprinting.org-ppds is split into linuxprinting.org-ppds (3.5 MB) and linuxprinting.org-ppds-extra (10MB) now, so the most important manufacturer PPDs can go onto the Feisty desktop CDs as linuxprinting.org-ppds. Ready for assessing size increase and putting into the appropriate seeds.

07:20	pitti	yay PPD file split :)
07:20	cjwatson	pitti is unlikely to have time to work on automatic-printer-conf, from the sounds of things earlier
07:20	pitti	tkamppeter: for the record, the package is uploaded, should sit in NEW now
07:20	pitti	cjwatson: well, I won't have much time to work on printerdrake code/gui, and we need that for automatic-printer-conf
07:21	pitti	a-p-c itself is not much work then (just some g-v-m integration)
07:22	pitti	for printerdrake, I have some community members in mind which might want to help
07:22	pitti	(ivoks, Kagou)
07:22	cjwatson	tkamppeter: re 65618, I think it would be useful if you could please try not to use "tested in Mandriva 2007" as a justification - it doesn't correlate well with working in Ubuntu, particularly in areas like udev that differ a fair bit between distributions
07:22	tkamppeter	pitti, I have seen that foomatic-db is uploaded, therefore I have closed the bugs. What is missing is that a person with appropriate rights adds linuxprinting.org-ppds to the seeds for the desktop CDs.
07:22	Ubugtu	Mandriva bug 2007 in Installation "Switching to alternate screens during install crashes X" [Normal,Resolved: fixed]  http://qa.mandriva.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2007
07:23	pitti	tkamppeter: I thought that was already shipped?
07:23	cjwatson	tkamppeter: 65618> note that you must upload to edgy-proposed, not edgy
07:23	cjwatson	see http://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates
07:24	tkamppeter	pitti, unfortunately, the PPDs did not make it onto the Edgy desktop CDs, there was some confusion.
07:24	cjwatson	tkamppeter: "appropriate rights" => ubuntu-core-dev
07:24	sfllaw	tkamppeter: I think we had a discussion about this during UDS.
07:24	sfllaw	tkamppeter: Please follow StableReleaseUpdates and all will be good.
07:24	cjwatson	ok, we're running short on time; further printing discussion => #ubuntu-devel

07:24	cjwatson	sfllaw: anything from you?
07:24	sfllaw	Done:
07:24	sfllaw	* Specs:
07:24	sfllaw	  - bug-workflow: Done with input from mpt and bjorn and sabdfl
07:24	sfllaw	  - scalable-installation-testing: Worked with pitti.  Need to spec out UI bits, but that's something I can do this weekend.
07:24	sfllaw	* Verification
07:24	sfllaw	  - xorg: Done
07:25	sfllaw	  - vino: Doing it now
07:25	sfllaw	* Interviewed intern candidates.
07:25	sfllaw	To do:
07:25	sfllaw	* More verification, since -proposed has stuff waiting.
07:25	sfllaw	* Review interviewees and pick [0-2] .
07:25	sfllaw	* Bug triage

07:25	fabbione	sfllaw: did you get my mail about lvm2/clvm?
07:25	fabbione	(SRU dapper/edgy)
07:25	sfllaw	fabbione: I didn't specifically notice it.  Is it tagged verification-needed?
07:25	sfllaw	If so, it will show up on my todo list.
07:25	sfllaw	Is it also a priority?
07:25	fabbione	sfllaw: yes the bug is
07:25	cjwatson	sfllaw: sorry about the vast influx into *-proposed
07:26	sfllaw	Well, it could have been worse.
07:26	fabbione	sfllaw: i followe SRU and mailed you
07:26	cjwatson	I think I've largely cleared the queue now, with the exception of a few more recent requests
07:26	sfllaw	Then I will get to it in order.
07:26	sfllaw	Important things I will do first, if you ping me about them.
07:26	cjwatson	although I haven't yet gone through everything that the SRU team is subscribed to, and there's openoffice.org coming next week
07:27	sfllaw	That's going to be a fun one.
07:27	sfllaw	Any other questions?
07:27	cjwatson	I've been telling all submitters to contact you after accepting their uploads
07:27	cjwatson	ok, thanks

07:27	cjwatson	zul: anything from you?
07:28	zul	this week:
07:28	zul	- amd64 xen fixing
07:28	zul	- porting paravirt-ops
07:28	zul	- kernel monkey collecting patches
07:28	zul	next week:
07:28	zul	- merges
07:28	zul	- testing paravirt-ops
07:28	zul	- kernel monkey
07:28	zul	specs:
07:28	zul	* xen-fiesty - pending approval - need to update spec to mention paravirt-ops

07:28	cjwatson	porting paravirt-ops> does that assume that we're going with 2.6.19 rather than 2.6.20? I understood that if we went with 2.6.20 we got it for free
07:29	zul	yes 2.6.20 should have it
07:29	zul	2.6.19 is for me to test it and get acquainted with it
07:29	cjwatson	ok
07:30	cjwatson	right, any other business?
07:30	zul	also if something breaks on the xen side the theorty is we can get it fixed quite quickly
07:30	cjwatson	going once
07:30	cjwatson	going twice
07:31	Keybuk	WAIT!
07:31	Keybuk	just kidding
07:31	cjwatson	adjourned. Remember everyone, all specs for feisty to be approved by next Thursday.
07:31	pitti	thanks all!
07:31	mvo	thanks everyone
07:32	fabbione	thanks *
</pre>
