{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
{{{
16:03	MootBot	Meeting started at 16:03. The chair is heno.
16:03	MootBot	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
16:03	liw	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam has the agenda
16:03	heno	Welcome all! Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam
16:04	heno	[TOPIC] Cool QA stuff happening
16:04	MootBot	New Topic:  Cool QA stuff happening
16:04	heno	This shouldn't require much discussion, just FIY
16:05	heno	all very cool though :)
16:05	liw	I have a quick question
16:05	heno	ok
16:06	liw	ogasawara, how close are you to accepting random new sources of information with the weather report? I'm thinking that the hardy piuparts results might be a good addition
16:06	ogasawara	liw: should be easy enough, it's basically just a template that I dump the data to
16:07	liw	ogasawara, ok, in that case could you e-mail me what you would need from me? I can adjust the piuparts output to what you need easily
16:07	ogasawara	liw:  will do
16:07	liw	ogasawara, when you're ready to add things, that is, no hurry yet from me
16:08	heno	liw: how would you plan to condense it? Total number of errors, warnings, etc?
16:08	liw	ok, I'm done on this topic :)
16:08	liw	heno, in useful ways that I haven't decided yet :)
16:08	heno	ok
16:08	heno	anyone else on this topic?
16:09	heno	moving on
16:09	heno	[TOPIC] Spec status: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs
16:09	MootBot	New Topic:  Spec status: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs
16:10	heno	any notable achievements or blockage on specs?
16:10	ogasawara	none here
16:10	heno	(this meeting item will become more central later in the cycle)
16:10	liw	nothing from me; I haven't really started work on the automated desktop testing thing, having spent my time wrestling with piuparts and qemu and wandering about the Spanish plains
16:11	pedro_	none here either, just waiting for the QA feedback module
=== ubotu changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 12 Dec 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 12 Dec 23:00 UTC: Kubuntu Developers | 13 Dec 14:00 UTC: Desktop Team Development | 18 Dec 15:00 UTC: Server Team meeting | 20 Dec 14:00 UTC: Desktop Team Development
16:11	heno	liw: the lintian and piuparts stuff could have been represented by a spec I guess
16:11	liw	heno, I guess
16:12	heno	ok, next
16:12	heno	[TOPIC] QA hardy bug list - we are preparing a list of long-standing and 'popular' bugs for hardy which we will present to the development community shortly
16:12	MootBot	New Topic:  QA hardy bug list - we are preparing a list of long-standing and 'popular' bugs for hardy which we will present to the development community shortly
16:12	heno	I just sent an email to the QA list about this
16:13	heno	I've had feedback from Pedro by email so far
16:14	liw	I think it sounds like a great idea; I don't have any particular bugs to suggest, though
16:14	heno	I guess the main question is: can we do this in ~10 days?
16:14	liw	(except anything I've reported myself, obviously ;-)
16:15	heno	yes, that would be why I didn't post it to the ubuntu-users mailing list :)
16:15	heno	every bug in LP would be nominated
16:15	heno	bdmurray, ogasawara: views?
16:16	liw	this list is going to be compiled with the best possible taste, I guess, not by voting?
16:16	heno	liw: drawing on the accumulated knowledge of our esteemed triage team, yes
16:16	bdmurray	heno: I think I can get mine done by then
16:16	ogasawara	heno: yah, seems reasonable
16:16	bdmurray	The next hug day should be pretty easy to setup I think
16:17	heno	bdmurray: focusing on this list?
16:17	pedro_	we also have a few nominations here : https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+nominations
16:17	bdmurray	heno: I meant it won't take that much of the rest of my time
16:17	heno	pedro_: yep, I'll take on looking at those
16:18	heno	bdmurray: ok cool
16:18	pedro_	ok!
16:18	heno	any other meeting topics?
16:18	bdmurray	ogasawara: and I have talked about it but we were thinking kernel bugs for the 19th
16:19	bdmurray	asking people to test with Alpha 2
* liw has no more topics for today
16:19	heno	bdmurray, ogasawara: sounds good
16:20	bdmurray	We could start doing some statistic collecing on the +nominations . . .
16:21	heno	bdmurray: what sort of stats?
16:21	bdmurray	heno: just numbering gathering - the standard stuff
16:21	bdmurray	er number gathering ;)
16:21	Hobbsee	heno: forums should be able to help you with that, too
* heno still has a fair number of +nominations to go through
16:22	bdmurray	interestingly 18 of the hardy ones are New
16:22	heno	Hobbsee: yep, jono is looking at that
16:23	heno	most of the gutsy ones i've looked at were new
16:23	heno	(now generally something else)
16:24	Hobbsee	heno: cool
16:24	bdmurray	Will everybody be around on the 2nd of January for the next Hug Day?
16:24	ogasawara	bdmurray: I'll be here
16:24	heno	I will
16:24	bdmurray	pedro_: ?
16:24	pedro_	yep me too
16:24	liw	I will, too
16:24	liw	assuming it is of any help
16:25	bdmurray	sure it is
16:25	heno	finally note that there is a bug day today as well! focusing on ubiquity bugs. -> #ubuntu-bugs
16:25	heno	#endmeeting
16:25	MootBot	Meeting finished at 16:25.}}}
