{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC +1
<pre>
03:01	dholbach	welcome everybody for a desktop team meeting - who do we have here?
03:01	Hobbsee	hiya
03:02	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting is our meeting agenda
03:02	dholbach	and it's very short today
03:03	dholbach	we want to figure out what's on our todo lists for the next two weeks
03:03	dholbach	there'll be 2.19.5 next week
03:03	seb128	indeed
03:03	coNP	hey everyone
03:03	dholbach	anything else on anybody's todo list which we should highlight?
03:04	dholbach	hey coNP
03:04	dholbach	welcome coNP everybody - Aron's been doing amazing work on the team in the last weeks
03:04	seb128	we can also discuss things we can change in the team organisation if you have some suggestions
03:04	dholbach	looks like he got the lion share of gnome 2.19.4 done :-)
03:04	seb128	coNP: good work!
03:05	coNP	thanks dholbach, seb128 :)
03:06	seb128	do we have anybody who would be interested to take special care of a package?
03:06	seb128	like being the "maintainer" or one member of a team of people looking after it?
03:06	Hobbsee	i'm slightly worried about why you're discussing plans for edgy on that agenda...
03:06	dholbach	Hobbsee: 'Old Agendas'
03:07	dholbach	siti has been taking care of ekiga and friends in the last time, which has worked out really really well
03:07	Hobbsee	oh, point
03:07	dholbach	siti: is there any new ekiga release planned anytime soon?
03:07	siti	I think 3.0 is meant to be released in time for the next gnome
03:07	seb128	nice
03:07	dholbach	woah - great
03:07	siti	it's UI is much better1
03:07	siti	!*
03:07	seb128	siti: is ekiga uptodate in gutsy at the moment ?
03:08	siti	it's the latest stable
03:08	dholbach	that'll give us some time to get it tested properly for gutsy release
03:08	seb128	good :)
03:08	seb128	siti: thanks for working on it!
03:09	Hobbsee	seb128: if you're having maintainers on the gnome side, who is a volunteer, what does that mean about other people being able to upload to it, if the maintainer is inactive?
03:09	seb128	there is a bunch of untriaged bugs on launchpad for ekiga apparently
03:09	siti	yeah, most of the bugs are due to the old ekiga, so I've been lazy...
03:10	siti	almost everyone fixes there problems by updating to 2.0.9
03:10	seb128	Hobbsee: yeah, we don't have any lock, that's just it's easier to know that some people are looking after a package
03:10	dholbach	so setting to needsinfo and asking for confirmation with gutsy would help most of them?
03:10	siti	I think so
03:11	seb128	good
03:11	Hobbsee	seb128: so you dotn have a policy for what happens if someone was doing the regular releases, and then drops off the face of the planet?
03:11	dholbach	ok, maybe we should add that as a 'todo task' to our page
03:11	seb128	should we clean this list on wednesday for the bug day?
03:11	seb128	that seems a reasonable goal
03:11	dholbach	yeah, it sounds like a very good idea
03:11	seb128	Hobbsee: no, we have a wiki page where we list work to be done and claim things we are working on
03:11	Hobbsee	seb128: fair enough
03:12	seb128	we usually update if there is no reaction from the usual maintainer in the next days after a new version
=== Hobbsee nods
03:12	Hobbsee	interesting, thanks for letting me butt in :)
03:12	seb128	np :)
03:13	seb128	siti: would you be interested to hand on #ubuntu-bugs on wednesday for the bug day and help cleaning the ekiga list?
03:14	siti	I don't know what I am doing on wednesday, but I can start going through the bugs soon
03:15	seb128	k, so let's note this list on the weekly TODO
03:15	dholbach	rock and roll
03:15	seb128	we will try to give an hand and get it cleaned ;)
03:15	dholbach	is the TODO page working OK for everybody?
03:15	siti	thanks
03:15	seb128	another small goal somebody would like to add?
03:16	seb128	so we have
03:16	seb128	- update GNOME to 2.19.5
03:16	seb128	- clean the ekiga list of bugs
03:16	dholbach	- update remaining tarballs
03:17	dholbach	should we add 'regular bug tasks' like "reviewing all bugs wit patches" or "cleaning old needsinfo bugs" or other bug lists on DesktopTeam/Bugs?
03:18	dholbach	of course add:
03:18	dholbach	- get exciting new stuff packaged
03:18	dholbach	;-)
03:18	seb128	I think we should have a short list of goals for between now and the next meeting
03:18	seb128	and a regular TODO for tasks like cleaning needsinfo, etc
03:19	dholbach	ok, I'll add a "regular tasks" section to the page
03:19	dholbach	maybe we should do the "weekly goals" thing as a wiki include
03:19	dholbach	that way we could have it on the frontpage and on todo
03:19	dholbach	and in other places, where like to plug it
03:19	seb128	looks good
03:20	seb128	you are the wiki master, if you know how to do it ... :)
03:20	dholbach	alrighty, I'll do that
03:20	seb128	thanks
03:20	dholbach	cheers
03:20	seb128	anybody else with ideas for a better organisation, things you would like to work on, things you thing that should be done for gutsy?
03:20	dholbach	hiya fernando
03:20	seb128	hey fernando
03:21	fernando	hey dholbach
03:21	fernando	hey seb128
=== coNP does not know the exact schedule of the upstream Gnome release - packaging - sync - merge cycles: is it happening continously towards 2.20 / 7.10 or are there any changes in the meantime?
03:23	seb128	coNP: there is a new GNOME unstable every 2 weeks usually
03:23	seb128	we merge with Debian on start of the new cycle usually and then only when there is changes we want
03:24	seb128	right now we are mostly done with merges for gutsy
03:26	seb128	anything else?
03:26	seb128	anybody with some cools idea or things he wants to work on? ;)
03:27	Hobbsee	seb128: replace gnome with kde!  :P
03:27	Hobbsee	ahem.
03:27	seb128	Hobbsee: you are already working on that, aren't you? :p
03:27	Hobbsee	seb128: erm...cant confirm or deny, on the basis that it may incriminate me.
03:27	seb128	doesn't seem to be working though ;)
03:27	Hobbsee	seb128: you just wait for KDE 4....
03:27	seb128	you just wait for GNOME 3 :p
03:28	fernando	fight
03:28	Hobbsee	now that has no ETA at all :P
03:28	seb128	;)
=== Hobbsee gets out the lightning bolts... :P
03:28	seb128	k, look like not a lot of other things to add
03:28	seb128	dholbach: ?
03:28	seb128	the meeting was short but we didn't have one for some time
03:29	dholbach	no, not from me - I'd just like us to make an effort to get all the gnome-ish stuff reviewed
03:29	seb128	we have some goals for the coming weeks and we will try to have a better list for next one
03:29	dholbach	I know that REVU is not perfect, but it's what's used mostly these days
03:29	seb128	would be nice if people could add easy goals, or make list of bugs which can be tackled in a bug day like the ekiga one
03:29	seb128	so we can keep going with easy tasks weekly
03:30	seb128	and show that things are done
03:30	seb128	dholbach: right
03:30	dholbach	I can make a list of those and add it to the weekly todo, if you like
03:30	dholbach	link them from there
03:30	dholbach	also for this weeks goals, I'll add all the remaining tarballs, if you don't mind
03:31	seb128	dholbach: no problem
03:31	dholbach	ok super
03:31	coNP	and s/June/July/ :)
03:31	seb128	should we have a page where tasks for the week stay
03:31	dholbach	I'll let you know once it's done
03:31	seb128	and get a green line when they are done
03:31	dholbach	yes, I'll make that https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/WeeklyTODO
03:31	dholbach	working on it now
03:32	seb128	cool
03:32	dholbach	should we try to agree on a time and date for next week?
03:32	dholbach	erm
03:32	dholbach	next meeting
03:33	dholbach	what about same time in two weeks?
03:33	dholbach	does that work well for everybody?
=== coNP goes on holiday then, but it is not a problem for me
=== coNP seems to have difficulties in dealing with multiple personalities :)
03:35	seb128	dholbach: not sure it's ideal, that's during GUADEC ;)
03:35	dholbach	hehe :)
03:35	dholbach	ah right
03:35	seb128	3 weeks?
03:35	dholbach	fine with me, although I'll probably be at ubuntulive
03:35	seb128	dholbach: will you be there in 2 weeks?
03:36	dholbach	no, the week after guadec
03:36	seb128	no, I mean available for a meeting
03:36	seb128	in which case let's do it in 2 weeks
03:36	seb128	you will be around since you don't go to GUADEC
03:36	dholbach	yes, that's fine with me
03:36	seb128	and I'll be around for the next one when you are on holidays
03:37	seb128	I mean be able to join from GUADEC also
03:37	seb128	I expect they will have wireless there ;)
03:38	dholbach	yeah, I should think so :)
03:38	dholbach	ok, let's go with 2 weeks from now, same time
03:39	dholbach	everybody ok with that?
03:41	seb128	yes
03:42	dholbach	super
03:42	dholbach	anything to add? any problems you see at the moment? anything we should make sure to get done soon? anything you'd like to let the team know?
03:45	dholbach	ok, probably not
03:45	dholbach	let's adjourn then
03:45	dholbach	thanks everybody for turning up
03:46	dholbach	let's bring up everything else on ubuntu-desktop@lists.ubuntu.com then
03:46	dholbach	have a nice day
</pre>
