{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
  
   10:02 LaserJock ok, who all is here for the Doc Team meeting?
   10:04 manicka   I'm here
   10:05 LaserJock hmm, doesn't look promising
   10:05 manicka   no
   10:06 robotgeek i'm here too
   === Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   10:10 LaserJock hmm, well if naaman isn't here...
   10:10 manicka   there's not much to talk about...
   10:14 LaserJock hmm, well does anybody have suggestions for the next meeting?
   === bustacap [n=bustacap@ubuntu/member/bustacap] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:16 bustacap  hello all, is the doc meeting on now?
   10:16 manicka   hi
   10:16 bustacap  oh poo where is mdke??
   10:16 robotgeek bustacap: naaman isn't here
   10:16 manicka   lol
   10:16 bustacap  haha naaman is bustacap :D
   10:17 robotgeek bustacap: oh, my bad. lol
   10:17 bustacap  hehe
   === robotgeek smacks himself
   10:17 LaserJock hmm, ok so not many people here then
                   I just woke up underneath my coffee table in the lounge room
   10:18 bustacap  (did not know how I got there) at 7am (2100 UTC) thinking "oh
                   shit, it's the Doc Team meeting"
   === jjesse [n=jjesse@mail.ftpb.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:18 jjesse    not around for much longer
   10:18 bustacap  well, if there isn't any senior members in attendance - I
                   will convene it...
   === bustacap looks at the MeetingAgenda
   10:19 bustacap  I am still in my work clothes from yesterday (I had a decent
                   drinking session straight after work ;) )
   10:20 bustacap  OK onto the meeting..
   10:20 LaserJock well, I think that we might want to try a bit harder to get
                   some agenda items for next time
   10:20 bustacap  we will just put issues to the next meeting without the
                   people here to represent them
   10:20 bustacap  but onto the first one..
   10:21 bustacap  using common files in the DocBook documents
   10:21 bustacap  does anyone else (other than mdke) have something to bring up
                   about this..
   10:21 LaserJock I think a far amount of docs are using the common preface
   10:22 bustacap  I think this issue has been brought up before at a previous
                   meeting..
   10:22 robotgeek the Kubuntu docs use the common kde entities mostly
   10:22 manicka   there's a fair maount on commonality between the ubuntu and
                   kubuntu dg's
   10:22 bustacap  is this the same as the ubuntu .xml files?
   10:23 robotgeek manicka: hmm, i havent seen many common ones, to be honest
   10:23 bustacap  manicka, I think mdke is after is a common look and feel to
                   all of the ubuntu documentation..
   10:23 manicka   ah, ok
   10:25 robotgeek well, i don't know if we can discuss this without mdke being
                   here
   10:25 bustacap  well to add my two cents - perhaps the preface might be a
                   little different in the guides
   10:26 bustacap  but - the getting-help.xml should be exactly the same
   10:26 bustacap  it should point to the same web-help resources..
   10:26 LaserJock what mdke and I were thinking about is about having a common
                   preface
   10:26 LaserJock and perhaps other common elements
   10:26 robotgeek bustacap: for examsple the, mailing lists are different
   10:26 bustacap  for the getting help??
   10:27 robotgeek bustacap: yes, ubuntu-users and kubuntu-users
   10:27 bustacap  well I think that the getting-help should encompass all
                   versions of ubuntu
   10:27 jjesse    and the different channels
   10:27 bustacap  it should say in the USG - for help with Ubuntu -> go here;
                   for help with Kubuntu -> go here..
   10:28 jjesse    i don't think there is enough commonality to get common files
   10:28 robotgeek jjesse: +1
   10:28 bustacap  it is documented in the USG to convert over to Kubuntu in the
                   USG
   10:28 jjesse    USG == Ubuntu Server Guide?
   10:28 robotgeek bustacap: then the KDG takes over :)
   10:28 bustacap  so there should be help resources on where to go as well..
   10:29 bustacap  ok - fair call..
   10:29 robotgeek bustacap: it's Ubuntu Desktop Guide, the "starter" term is
                   removed now
   10:29 bustacap  ooh sorry ;)
   10:29 bustacap  I am out of the loop :)
   10:29 jjesse    to make a distinction between server guide nad desktop guide
   10:29 bustacap  yeah..
   10:29 robotgeek bustacap: i was too, until yesterday :)
   10:30 LaserJock ok, but anyway I think the goal was to think about
                   commonality so we can just change things once
   10:30 robotgeek LaserJock: i believe the global entities are in one file
   10:31 LaserJock right, but we talked about a common preface for example
   10:31 bustacap  oh, but it is a fair call to say that it is not worth doing..
   10:31 bustacap  it is a good idea in principle, but I say not to worry about
                   it..
   10:31 bustacap  moving on - next item..
   10:31 LaserJock but I think that the item is already implemented quite a bit
                   so it might not be worth discussing in length
   10:32 robotgeek LaserJock: yeah, i guess that is the way it is
   10:32 robotgeek i copied KDG's preface from UDG
   10:32 bustacap  WikiCleanupProposal
   10:32 bustacap  manicka are you in on this?
                   i would argue for common files where they make sense... for
   10:32 jjesse    example on the kubuntu side all the docs should use the same
                   preface if they have a preface
   10:32 LaserJock jjesse: exactly
   10:33 bustacap  for sure jjesse
   10:33 LaserJock jjesse: that was the point
   10:33 jjesse    sorry working so only paying half attention
   10:33 manicka   I'm prepared to help where i can
   10:33 bustacap  sure..
   10:33 robotgeek jjesse: hmm, it's pretty easy to implement, i guess
   10:33 bustacap  it should already be implemented for same distro docs..
   10:34 LaserJock bustacap: I don't know that it is exactly though
   10:34 bustacap  LaserJock, I don't think it would be too much effort to
                   correct
   10:35 robotgeek bustacap: it's just changing an entity for me, i'm sure it's
                   the same for the rest too
   10:35 LaserJock right, but people need to be aware of it and do it ;-)
                   we can say that the preface.xml and getting-help.xml aren't
   10:35 bustacap  compatible with each other atm and it isn't a smart move to
                   make them compatible in the future either..
   10:36 robotgeek bustacap: preface.xml is document neutral, getting-help.xml
                   is not
   10:36 LaserJock ?
   10:36 bustacap  there isn't too much to be gained by making them the same
                   document..
   10:36 bustacap  well preface.xml could contain more distro-specific
                   information..
   10:36 robotgeek it would make sense for a common preface.xml across both
                   ubuntu and kubuntu
   10:37 bustacap  iirc, preface.xml in the UDG talks about the work put in by
                   the kubuntu team to make an alternative to ubuntu
   10:37 robotgeek bustacap: preface just says how the document is formatted and
                   how to interpret it.
   10:37 LaserJock the preface contents are just a " these are the conventions,
                   etc. used in the doc" and since those should be consistent...
   10:37 bustacap  oh ok..
   10:38 bustacap  well that could be the same then..
   10:38 robotgeek and getting help could be common across all ubuntu documents,
                   and all kubuntu docs
                   it wasn't a huge deal it was just where we can have common
   10:38 LaserJock items we should try to, so that we have consistency and
                   eliminate redundancy
   10:39 robotgeek true, it's only a small change to make, let's make it and
                   keep moving :)
   10:39 bustacap  well include both Kubuntu and Ubuntu sources of help in both
                   then..
   10:39 bustacap  yeah..
   10:39 bustacap  it will also create more awareness of Kubuntu when people are
                   looking for help in the UDG as well..
   10:40 LaserJock bustacap: the current common preface is distro neutral
   10:40 bustacap  ok - well make that common across all distros..
   10:40 robotgeek LaserJock: maybe not
   10:41 robotgeek i have Konsole instead of gnome-terminal
   10:41 bustacap  in preface??
                   you guys, it is fine. I don't know what you guys are looking
   10:41 LaserJock at but the common preface doesn't have anything distro
                   specific that I know of
   10:41 robotgeek To start a Terminal  session, select: Konsole  from the
                   desktop menu system.
   10:41 robotgeek maybe i should just rephrase that, lol
   10:41 bustacap  I wouldn't imagine that would be in preface.xml??
   10:42 robotgeek that is in preface
   10:42 LaserJock no it isn't
   10:42 bustacap  why would command-line operations be in a Preface??
   10:42 LaserJock robotgeek: look at the Ubuntu Packaging Guide preface
   10:42 robotgeek okay, atlease in the kdg preface :)
                   http://doc.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/desktopguide-web/C/preface.html
   10:43 LaserJock robotgeek: that is because it isn't using the common preface!
   10:43 robotgeek okay, i think need to change it then
   10:43 robotgeek :)
   10:43 bustacap  well that line could be easily stripped then..
   10:43 bustacap  it is unnecessary to tell a user how to open a shell from the
                   Conventions section..
   10:43 LaserJock arrghhh, guys, there is a common preface.xml that you can be
                   using that is distro neutral
   10:44 LaserJock you shouldn't have a preface.xml file in your doc directory
   10:44 robotgeek okay, fine. will make the change
   10:45 bustacap  I think this is issue is now pretty much open-and-shut ->
                   move on to making both files common across all documentation
   10:45 LaserJock do you guys see it? in common/C/
   10:45 robotgeek LaserJock: i see it, and will make the change now
   10:46 bustacap  alright - moving on to the next item..
   10:46 bustacap  WikiCleanupProposal
   10:47 bustacap  at the moment the WCP has been moving along quite well
   10:48 bustacap  I might move through a couple of points in it and where it is
                   at..
   10:48 manicka   feedback on the list has been very productive
   10:48 bustacap  the Wiki Move..
                   there may need to be a day of the Wiki Team making sure that
   10:50 bustacap  all of the important docs on the Wiki are categorised in the
                   Category''Documentation before the wiki move
   10:50 bustacap  other than that - I cannot see any problems with the
                   impending wiki move (whenever that happens)
   10:50 bustacap  any information about the wiki move?
   10:51 bustacap  there has been a spec put forward about it..
   10:52 manicka   I believe it was discussed at the last cc, but mdke wasn't
                   there to clarify the issues
   10:52 bustacap  yeah, that's why he is going down the spec route rather than
                   discussing it at CC meetings..
   10:52 manicka   discussion went round in circles a bit
   10:52 bustacap  it might even be in Launchpad
   10:53 bustacap  ok, moving onto Restructuring of the Wiki
   10:53 bustacap  bit of a shame mdke isn't here
   10:53 bustacap  but manicka you seem to be happy with mdke's proposal for the
                   changes to UserDocumentation??
   10:54 manicka   I like the concise nature of his suggestions
   10:54 bustacap  yeah, it is a good cleanup
   10:54 manicka   the frontpage needs to be as simple as possible
   10:55 bustacap  I can see where he is coming from with his objections to my
                   "Misc" series of pages
   === hybrid [n=hybrid@dpc6745217221.direcpc.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:55 manicka   yes
   10:55 bustacap  albeit a temporary solution to the problems whilst
                   UserDocBeta was being built
   10:56 manicka   the problem I see is making it happen, there doesn't seem to
                   be a lot of interest in the wiki
   10:56 bustacap  yeah, I am getting that feeling as well
   10:57 bustacap  I find that hard to understand given the usefulness of the
                   Wiki
   10:57 manicka   such a large restructure needs a concerted effort
   10:57 robotgeek true
   10:57 manicka   a few people can't pull it off on their own
                   from a sysadmin perspective - we are in the "google" age of
   10:58 bustacap  looking for assistance with sysadmin tasks - the Ubuntu Wiki
                   fits right in with looking for doco on the net
   === terrex [n=capitant@84-122-65-159.onocable.ono.com] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   10:58 manicka   agreed
   === robotgeek is still trying to understand the issues :(
   10:58 bustacap  for sure manicka, but I think a quick restructure and then
                   some slow and steady work by a few can improve it greatly
   10:59 manicka   yes
                   if there isn't enough support by the general Doc-Team, well
   10:59 bustacap  yourself and I can take it slowly as long as it is supported
                   (in ideals) by the Doc-Team
   === terrex [n=capitant@84-122-65-159.onocable.ono.com] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   11:00 bustacap  I don't want to be working on a project that the majority of
                   the Doc-Team turn there noses up at..
   11:00 manicka   yes, agreed
   11:00 bustacap  that's why I have been trying to engage some dialog about the
                   issue..
   11:00 manicka   so our first gioal must be approval of the idea
   11:00 manicka   the beta I mean
   === terrex [n=capitant@84-122-65-159.onocable.ono.com] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
                   robotgeek, look at
   11:00 bustacap  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WikiCleanupProposal for a good
                   introduction to the matter
   11:00 robotgeek bustacap: reading it now
   11:01 bustacap  well I think that the beta may be dead given that mdke has
                   gone and suggested his model
   11:01 bustacap  the whole subindexing - however - is not dead
   11:01 manicka   I was thinking of the long term model
                   yeah, see my initial opposition to mdke's model was that if
   11:02 bustacap  we went to his model - we could not go back to the beta model
                   if everything was ready in the background..
   11:03 manicka   there's no point putting a lot of effort into a background
                   model if it won't fly in the long run
   11:03 bustacap  with his model - a new beta doesn't need to be drafted
   === Burgwork [n=corey@d66-183-174-128.bchsia.telus.net] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
                   I think the main thing that has come out of my proposals is
   11:04 bustacap  that there is a need for some general sub-index pages across
                   all subject areas
                   and whatever the main page model is - the sub-indexes will
   11:05 bustacap  greatly help people find doco quicker and give them a really
                   good understanding of what Ubuntu has to offer
   11:05 robotgeek bustacap: +1
   11:05 bustacap  there needs to be more higher-level simple doco about Ubuntu
                   and the apps it has
   11:05 manicka   yes and this would assist with the other goal of attracting
                   forum people to contribute
   11:06 bustacap  absolutely
   11:06 robotgeek bustacap: for example like the KQuickguide?
   11:06 manicka   I'd just like to see something happen
                   manicka, once a conclusion has been reached about the main
   11:06 bustacap  page model - I will be able to start drafting a recruitment
                   drive for people from the forums
   11:07 bustacap  manicka, well once I have a chat with mdke - I will continue
                   driving the issue
   11:07 manicka   ok
                   the problem was that I was not getting any feedback from the
                   Doc-Team about the work and like have said - it seems that
   11:08 bustacap  nobody cares about cleaning up the wiki - or like I said -
                   nobody is saying anything because that don't agree about what
                   I have proposed
   11:08 manicka   it's difficult to know either way
   11:08 robotgeek bustacap: from me, i just have been too busy with other stuff
   11:09 manicka   I look at it this way. If you want help with the task I'll
                   pitch in, but I'm really tired of all the background stuff
   11:09 manicka   the udsf issues have worn me out somewhat
                   robotgeek, it is just not about a short guide - it's about
                   opening people's minds up to all of the possiblities of
                   Ubuntu apps when they are searching for a specific issue - if
   11:11 bustacap  somebody is searching for playing MP3s - the may browse on of
                   the sub-index pages (MultimediaApplications is a good
                   example) and discover all of the different MP3 players along
                   with the video players etc... basically look for help in one
                   subject area and be enli
   11:11 bustacap  ghtened in so many more :)
   11:11 bustacap  manicka, that is a fair call, I don't think we need to visit
                   there..
   11:11 manicka   no, agreed
   11:12 robotgeek bustacap: hmm, i like idea of subpages, Todd has been working
                   on WifiDocs  converted the wireless pages that ways
                   and as far as the whole joint meeting went - I think there is
   11:12 bustacap  a really positive attitude from the Ubuntu Forums to wholly
                   support the Wiki once there is a suitable framework there..
   11:13 bustacap  yeah, I have liked Todd's work on getting something up and
                   going..
   11:13 manicka   yes, a suitable framework is the key...
                   basically manicka, we need at least another 2-3 people
   11:13 bustacap  involved in the project with the same committment as you and
                   I to really get this off the ground..
                   and as far as I look at the whole doc situation - I think the
   11:14 bustacap  UDG and KDG are in there final stages of being closed off for
                   Dapper and the members of the Doc-Team should have some time
                   to contribute to fixing up the Wiki
   11:14 manicka   hmm, that may be difficult. Most of the good people on the
                   forums are working on 'other' projects
   11:15 manicka   but you never know
   11:15 bustacap  yeah, I know that - but I am after 2-3 extras from the
                   Doc-Team initially
   11:15 robotgeek i may have time, but i can't commit right now
   11:15 manicka   so we may see some activity in a few weeks
   11:15 robotgeek commit time, i mean
   11:16 robotgeek btw, i have some input to provide about our first agenda item
                   robotgeek, but by commit - I don't mean spending 2 hours
   11:16 bustacap  every night on it - I just mean that you agree with the
                   proposals put forward and I include you in any high level
                   emails/discussions that may arise over the project..
   11:17 bustacap  robotgeek, I might wrap up the current agenda item anyway and
                   close off the meeting
   11:17 robotgeek bustacap: i'll go thru the whole issue over the weekend and
                   get in touch with you?
   11:17 bustacap  sure, drop me an email (check private message)
                   basically, we could do with an extra 2-3 people committed to
   11:18 bustacap  this project but either way - mdke's proposal looks good and
                   I will slowly change the beta to suit
   11:19 manicka   ok
   11:19 bustacap  also, I will have a chat with mdke about his proposal and
                   move it across to UserDocumentationDraft
   11:19 manicka   great
   11:19 bustacap  once approved at UserDocumentationDraft - it will replace the
                   current UserDocumentation
                   and! I will then attempt to take over the WikiTeam docs as
   11:20 bustacap  far as cleanup proposals, todo pages, etc to get the ball
                   rolling..
   11:21 manicka   sounds like a plan
   11:21 bustacap  excellent
   11:21 robotgeek :)
   11:21 bustacap  well I think that concludes today's meeting..
   11:21 robotgeek holdon
   === bustacap bangs a gavel :D
   11:22 bustacap  sorry robotgeek, bring up your issue, I am getting a drink of
                   water and heading to bed - big night last night
                   LaserJock: the preface.xml in KDG doesn't have all xml
   11:22 robotgeek headers . Riddell removed them for something related to
                   xincludes
   11:23 bustacap  night/morning all..
   11:23 robotgeek bustacap: sure, later
   11:23 robotgeek anyways, i could discuss this later. only to tell that i
                   won't be making a change right now
   11:23 robotgeek alrite, later all
  
</pre>
