{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC-4
<pre>
(02:01:35 AM) cjwatson: Hi all; welcome to those of you visiting for 8.04.1 discussions
(02:01:53 AM) pitti: hardy is our rock!
(02:02:36 AM) cjwatson: As I mentioned by mail, the main thing I want to go through in this platform meeting is 8.04.1, though I have other odds and ends for afterwards
(02:02:57 AM) ogra: cjwatson, i just sent you another agenda item
(02:03:01 AM) doko: good morning
(02:03:28 AM) cjwatson: Most of you will already know that we're assigning more resources than usual to the point release this time round, and this will consist of a virtual team of about ten people under the direction of slangasek
(02:04:12 AM) cjwatson: Steve was on well-deserved holiday yesterday after the 8.04 release, so I don't know if he's had a chance to catch up and figure out what's going on with stable yet :-)
(02:04:54 AM) pitti: ah, that was in fact one of my main pressing questions: slangasek is now officially part of the SRU team, so I can bother him to review my own SRU uploads?
(02:05:03 AM) cjwatson: From platform, so far, evand and about half of asac will be on the 8.04.1 team; I'm still sniffing around for one more
(02:05:12 AM) slangasek: I've managed to process my mail with difficulty today - looks like there are one or two bugs to keep us busy for the point release
(02:05:18 AM) StevenK: Heh, "half of asac"
(02:05:20 AM) pitti: from desktop, it's seb128 and me (so far)
(02:05:29 AM) ogra: no half people there ?
(02:05:37 AM) slangasek: pitti: my understanding is that I'm to be officially part of the SRU team, but I'm not a member of the launchpad team yet
(02:05:44 AM) zul: from the server team its me and half of kirkland
(02:06:07 AM) pitti: slangasek: I don't think the team comes with any extra power, it's just the bug mail I think
(02:06:13 AM) ***cjwatson looks at https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-8.04.1 - "144 bugs targeted"
(02:06:19 AM) seb128: hi
(02:06:20 AM) pitti: slangasek: but someone should add you indeed
(02:06:22 AM) cjwatson: slangasek: *clicketyclick* fixed
(02:06:22 AM) ***calc will be putting out a new OOo, but probably not working on other stuff unless asked
(02:06:28 AM) slangasek: cjwatson: thanks :)
(02:07:18 AM) cjwatson: Firefox 3's non-final state is one of the things I've seen in pretty much every 8.04 review so far, hence asac
(02:07:29 AM) cjwatson: (and we knew it was going to be that way, of course)
(02:07:34 AM) ***slangasek nods
(02:07:49 AM) ogra: yeah, there are also massive threads about it on ubuntu-users
(02:08:03 AM) ogra: seems some people have problems running 2 and 3 in parallel
(02:08:28 AM) cjwatson: The target for package uploads being complete for 8.04.1 is about the first week of June, with the release itself then being early July, so plenty of time for testing and certification
(02:08:48 AM) asac: ogra: nobody claimed that thats really supported ;)
(02:08:59 AM) cjwatson: Are there any major issues people would like to raise that they think ought to be hoovered up for 8.04.1?
(02:09:05 AM) ogra: asac, right and -users is a madhouse anyway
(02:09:06 AM) pitti: cjwatson: do you know whether we'll get any list of 'hardware that should work with .1' again?
(02:09:18 AM) ogra: cjwatson, sound support
(02:09:19 AM) lool: It's not a major issue, but I need to mention the UME situation
(02:09:22 AM) slangasek: I think all the major issues I would raise are conveniently already milestoned ;)
(02:09:35 AM) pitti: pulseaudio's stuttering is driving me crazy, but it might just be me
(02:09:38 AM) slangasek: sound support is a big one that needs some attention
(02:09:47 AM) cjwatson: lool: that is on my list, I'll get to it in a moment
(02:09:53 AM) seb128: cjwatson: gvfs smb issues
(02:09:54 AM) lool: perfect, thanks
(02:10:02 AM) ogra: pitti, since crimsun dropped the ball we're pretty much floating wrt sound
(02:10:15 AM) cjwatson: pitti: I'm not sure, I'll check
(02:10:17 AM) zul: cjwatson: onn the server side we have a list of things we would like to see fixed or tweaked
(02:10:22 AM) slangasek: the new kernel scheduler works for most cases, but in the cases where it doesn't it really doesn't - I think the kernel team already has that in 'fix committed' now
(02:10:22 AM) ogra: nobody is *really deep* into it atm
(02:10:26 AM) TheMuso: Crimsun and I are looking at putting pulseaudio through dmix at this point, and testing is giving different results for different people from what I can gather.
(02:10:46 AM) lool: slangasek: Is that the commit in 2.6.25 by Ingo?
(02:10:53 AM) cjwatson: slangasek: cgroups?
(02:11:02 AM) ogra: TheMuso, do you know what redhat are doing wrt the pulse setup ?
(02:11:08 AM) slangasek: zul: can you please let me know if there are any of those bugs which aren't a subset of the 8.04.1 milestoned set?
(02:11:15 AM) slangasek: cjwatson: yes
(02:11:18 AM) slangasek: lool: no
(02:11:21 AM) cjwatson: seb128: that's bug 207072?
(02:11:24 AM) zul: slangasek: sure I can cross reference it
(02:11:27 AM) TheMuso: ogra: Using direct hardware access afaik. I plan on installing FC9 to have a closer look.
(02:11:34 AM) ogra: cool
(02:11:42 AM) pitti: one highly annoying thing is that gnome-screensaver doesn't accept your password after resuming; not sure if that's already milestoned
(02:11:46 AM) slangasek: I need to fix my own brown paper bag regarding pam logging :P
(02:12:00 AM) slangasek: pitti: hrm?  I haven't seen this at all
(02:12:05 AM) lool: Me neither
(02:12:08 AM) TheMuso: ogra: Not even sure what Fedora users do about flash and pulse, but I guess we won't really know till FC9 final is out.
(02:12:14 AM) ogra: pitti, i heard about keyboard issues after resume, that might be related
(02:12:17 AM) seb128: cjwatson: bug #209520 bug #223372 bug #207072
(02:12:27 AM) bryce: I've been looking at doing some quirk and pci id updates for various X drivers, and I think we might have a few more fixes for xrandr gui from redhat and suse that could be worth pulling in
(02:12:53 AM) pitti: slangasek: hm, happens on both my boxes (freshly installed final), so I didn't think it was a local glitch
(02:13:01 AM) seb128: right, fixing the xrandr capplet would be nice too, because I'm not sure it works for lot of people right now
(02:13:03 AM) pitti: anyway, it's on my list to track this down
(02:13:38 AM) ogra: TheMuso, they go for libflashsupport
(02:13:41 AM) slangasek: pitti: ok, please keep me informed; I would have expected a bug like that to have come to my attention by now if it were widespread, but even if it's not that sounds like a fairly important issue to try to pin down
(02:14:04 AM) TheMuso: ogra: Yeah so I guess ti comes down to how pulse/flashsupport behave for Fedora users.
(02:14:05 AM) pitti: slangasek: ok, I'll first get it filed, I think :)
(02:14:06 AM) ogra: TheMuso, but use nspluginwrapper all over the place, so it doesnt crash their browser
(02:14:28 AM) ogra: (people will just reload the page)
(02:14:39 AM) bryce: seb128: cloned (e.g. projector) should be fine for most people; dual-head layouts still needs work.  Not sure we're going to get that 100% though, but could be polished better.
(02:15:14 AM) seb128: bryce: ok, I might just have no luck with my setup then
(02:15:15 AM) slangasek: bryce: one of the reviews of hardy mentioned that the xrandr gui doesn't resize if you use it to scale the screen down to a size smaller than the window, making it difficult to make further changes; do you know if there's a bug about this?
(02:15:38 AM) cjwatson: I've asked TheMuso to be the third platform guy for .1, so hopefully he can spend some time smoothing out sound
(02:15:42 AM) calc: yea i saw that for low resolution displays
(02:15:53 AM) ogra: bryce, what about single head layouts that detect a tv or external VGA ? seems the external is always on (whch forces a floating gdm of 1024x768 on a 1280x800 screen here for me)
(02:16:00 AM) seb128: slangasek: there is a bug yes, I've been commenting on yet yesterday, no obvious way to solve the "dialog don't fit on 800x600 issues"
(02:16:32 AM) slangasek: seb128: well, there's a very large graphic that ought to be scalable downwards, in principle :)
(02:16:33 AM) bryce: slangasek: right, we actually did get it to fit in that resolution, but a button got added in at the last moment that bumped us up just enough.  That was a pretty non-standard resolution (740x400 iirc) so I don't know if it's worth SRUing, but I talked about it with james.
(02:16:35 AM) cjwatson: so I make the .1 team as follows: slangasek, asac, evand, TheMuso, pitti, seb128, bdmurray, ogasawara__, pedro, kirkland, zul
(02:16:48 AM) james_w: I thought it was ok in 800x600, it was just x400 that didn't work.
(02:16:51 AM) ogra: bryce, i ave seen that on different machines now, switching the external output off via xrandr fixes it though
(02:16:57 AM) ArneGoetje: can we put #215755 on the .1 list, please?
(02:17:25 AM) bryce: I think we should re-test on 640x480 though.  I *think* it should still fit ok, but if not maybe we should just shift where the button is located
(02:17:51 AM) TheMuso: When is Fedora 9 due?
(02:18:00 AM) seb128: james_w: might be, I use 800x600 as value we get bugs about app not fiting correctly on that usually
(02:18:00 AM) cjwatson: ArneGoetje: I've milestoned it speculatively, though it's outside the usual SRU criteria; I can see why it would be needed though
(02:18:00 AM) ogra: TheMuso, may 15th i think
(02:18:02 AM) asac: TheMuso: iirc 13th may
(02:18:13 AM) ArneGoetje: cjwatson: thanks
(02:18:15 AM) asac: ok ;)
(02:18:18 AM) ogra: or what asac says :)
(02:18:20 AM) calc: 14 days apparently
(02:18:25 AM) calc: whenever that is :)
(02:18:28 AM) TheMuso: Ok thanks.
(02:18:32 AM) bryce: ogra: the TV out interference bugs are usually easily quirkable; pass me bug ids and they should be easy to do that way
(02:18:33 AM) calc: yea may 13
(02:18:42 AM) cjwatson: lool mentioned mobile as an issue, and this was also on my list
(02:18:51 AM) slangasek: bryce: ah, right, I can't see much reason to worry about resolutions below 640x480; but then, the GUI should therefore probably not /expose/ resolutions lower than that if it's going to break the GUI itself :)
(02:19:13 AM) cjwatson: the mobile team is going to be releasing their hardy-based product somewhat later than hardy itself; looking at late May at the moment, I understand
(02:19:24 AM) lool: Yes
(02:19:37 AM) ogra: bryce, will do ... i added "/usr/bin/xrandr --output TV --off" to a gdm Init file for now, works around it as well :)
(02:19:38 AM) lool: We need to provide security support on it, and it's currently based on hardy + ume ppa
(02:19:38 AM) seb128: slangasek: note that you have to confirm the choice, so people shooting themself in the foot are really asking for it there
(02:19:41 AM) cjwatson: and they have raised it as an issue that their process is very complicated at the moment, involving PPAs and other weirdness all over the show
(02:20:14 AM) cjwatson: I'd like the .1 team to consider whether parts of this can be incorporated in the updates for .1
(02:20:36 AM) cjwatson: perhaps at least those packages currently in the ume ppa that are also important in the regular archive
(02:20:36 AM) lool: To be in the sweet spot of maintainability, we would be happy with having everything in hardy, but some of our changes remain ppa only at the moment
(02:20:44 AM) calc: apparently opensuse will have pulseaudio as well but isn't slated for release until mid june
(02:20:54 AM) cjwatson: I think there may be cases where a merge into the main archive just isn't appropriate yet
(02:21:06 AM) TheMuso: calc: Ok another one I need to check out, thanks.,
(02:21:20 AM) lool: That's true, it's certainly hard to reconcile the proposed changes with SRU requirements
(02:21:44 AM) lool: The changes might be lpia specific
(02:21:45 AM) calc: TheMuso: http://en.opensuse.org/Roadmap
(02:21:50 AM) lool: Or might be in purely mobile packages
(02:21:55 AM) TheMuso: calc: ok thanks again.
(02:22:01 AM) slangasek: right, I was about to say, if UME is still in the development run-up to a release, there are likely to be changes that don't really fit the SRU policy
(02:22:14 AM) lool: I think these are not disruptive to the normal behavior of hardy, but they do not fit in the allowed updates scenarii
(02:22:14 AM) cjwatson: at the very least, it'd make sense to consider cases where packages are being updated anyway
(02:22:35 AM) cjwatson: if changes are lpia-specific, the major risk is from changing the package *at all*, not so much from the diff itself
(02:22:36 AM) slangasek: and navigating the SRU requirements might be more of a hassle than using the PPA
(02:22:38 AM) cjwatson: IYSWIM
(02:22:43 AM) ***slangasek nods
(02:23:34 AM) lool: I was hoping that some easy changes would be mergeable as trivial mobile bug fixes, but it's going to be administrativa for sure
(02:23:53 AM) lool: One issue with the SRU process is that it needs the reviewer to be able to test the package
(02:24:11 AM) cjwatson: lool: perhaps somebody could correlate the list of changes you have against the 8.04.1 milestone, and look for things that could slot in
(02:24:19 AM) lool: But with UME, we don't have a completely virtual solution (yet) and the Xephyr solution is a pain to setup
(02:24:36 AM) cjwatson: is there wiki documentation on the setup?
(02:24:44 AM) cjwatson: at least then it could be done if need be ...
(02:24:46 AM) pitti: lool: but there should be at least one other person with that hw in the team?
(02:24:59 AM) asac: me
(02:25:04 AM) StevenK: Bryce, too
(02:25:07 AM) lool: cjwatson: Ok; we didn't use the milestone too much yet; what needs to be done is to look one by one at the packages we carry in the ppa and see whether the changes can be merged into hardy
(02:25:09 AM) pitti: lool: traditionally, hw specific bugs are verified by the bug reporter/subscribers, and we collect a few of them
(02:25:10 AM) slangasek: lool: the SRU process doesn't require the reviewer to be on the sru team or an archive admin, though?  so presumably you'd have people within your own team who could do the validation
(02:25:16 AM) lool: pitti: Yes
(02:25:45 AM) cjwatson: lool: right, I mean packages that are already going to be updated for .1 for other (non-mobile) reasons
(02:26:02 AM) lool: Sure, we could do it within UME; I thought the sru team or archive admins had to be able to check, but UME testing is fine
(02:26:04 AM) pitti: TBH, that makes even more sense than ~sru-verification, since they just test a particular TEST CASE:, and not the entire package in production conditions)
(02:26:10 AM) lool: cjwatson: Yup, I understood
(02:26:40 AM) cjwatson: ok, further .1 meetings
(02:26:49 AM) lool: cjwatson: So should we check -proposed regularly to see whether a package is different in -updates and hardy?
(02:27:06 AM) cjwatson: it seems like it'll be valuable for the .1 team to occasionally sync up, but you're in the usual variety of timezones
(02:27:29 AM) cjwatson: one suggestion was to have shift meetings, so that at least there's some coordination even if it isn't whole-team
(02:27:57 AM) cjwatson: slangasek: but I'll leave you to carry this forward
(02:28:40 AM) cjwatson: lool: I think you guys may be too busy to poll; perhaps you can arrange some kind of notification system
(02:28:54 AM) lool: Are -proposed uploads sent to some -changes list?
(02:29:07 AM) ***ogra thinks it should be responsibility of the uploader to take care 
(02:29:19 AM) ogra: (for notification that is)
(02:29:28 AM) lool: I see them in hardy-changes I think
(02:29:33 AM) slangasek: cjwatson: hmm, do we have any scheduling tools available internally to make this easier? :)
(02:29:50 AM) lool: I guess I'll tell people to subscribe with a filter to that list so that they can see likely SRU candidates
(02:29:59 AM) slangasek: ogra: the uploader won't necessarily know that the UME team cares about the package in question
(02:30:01 AM) ogra: lool, but they might have to sit in -proposed for weeks
(02:30:10 AM) cjwatson: lool: hardy-changes, yes
(02:30:14 AM) ogra: sladen, oh, right
(02:30:25 AM) pitti: lool: yes, they go to -changes normally
(02:30:43 AM) ogra: err s/sladen/slangasek, sorry
(02:30:45 AM) cjwatson: slangasek: not a lot, unfortunately; when I've done it I drew out a big list of timezones and people so that I could do it by eye
(02:30:51 AM) lool: Ok
(02:31:38 AM) StevenK: slangasek: I'd suggest you ask davidm too, since we have this issue with the mobile team
(02:32:24 AM) slangasek: StevenK: thanks, I'll ask him
(02:32:31 AM) lool: Where will the 8.04.1 sync meetings be announced?
(02:32:56 AM) slangasek: I'll make sure they get on the fridge
(02:33:25 AM) lool: Thanks
(02:34:02 AM) lool: Just in case, it might be best to include me in the list of 8.04.1 people if that's the base for an email group or something
(02:34:21 AM) cjwatson: so on second thoughts, the other agenda item I had was just for one person, so I won't bore the whole team with it
(02:34:30 AM) cjwatson: any other business?
(02:34:40 AM) slangasek: lool: I'm happy to do that to keep you in the loop
(02:34:48 AM) lool: Thanks
(02:34:51 AM) bryce: thanks
(02:35:09 AM) lool: cjwatson: thanks for the meeting!  have a nice day
(02:35:22 AM) kirkland: cool, g'night!
(02:35:41 AM) asac: thanks
(02:35:42 AM) evand: thanks
(02:35:44 AM) pitti: thanks everyone
(02:35:46 AM) TheMuso: Thanks folks.
(02:35:58 AM) ogra: thanks
(02:36:00 AM) seb128: thanks guys
(02:36:01 AM) StevenK: thanks guys
(02:36:06 AM) pitti left the room ("bye").
(02:36:13 AM) seb128 left the room ("Ex-Chat").
(02:36:22 AM) james_w: thanks all
(02:36:23 AM) slangasek: thanks (i.e., "no other business" :)
(02:36:42 AM) ArneGoetje: thanks
(02:37:18 AM) cjwatson: ok then, adjourned; thanks all, good luck with .1!
</pre>
