{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
** Active work that may need wider communication
* Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
** https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
** https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:04.

==== Zesty Development ====
The discussion about "Zesty Development" started at 16:05.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:08)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

** Most of the team is involved with merges and bugwork.

==== Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)" started at 16:10.

** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** caribou was unable to attend.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:13.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 
** cloud-init testing updates from powersj.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:14.

** smb and sforshee were unable to attend.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:14.

** ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/ 

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:15.

** Canonical Server Team is sprinting next week, so no meeting.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:16.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:17.

** Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Dec 13th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. smoser to chair.

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:04 <nacc> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
16:04 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov 29 16:04:09 2016 UTC.  The chair is nacc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
16:04 <meetingology> 
16:04 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
16:04 <nacc> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
16:04 <nacc> cpaelzer: looks like the wiki maybe wasnt' updated (date is off), but i think no current action items?
16:04 <cpaelzer> nacc: no action items left
16:05 <nacc> cpaelzer: ack, moving on! :)
16:05 <cpaelzer> nacc: other than jgrimm that started a mail thread
16:05 <cpaelzer> was considered DONE
16:05 <cpaelzer> but maybe he might report on any feedback
16:05 <cpaelzer> there was none last week
16:05 <nacc> i believe jgrimm is not available fully this week
16:05 <cpaelzer> true
16:05 <nacc> so we'll defer to next week for an update, to keep moving
16:05 <nacc> #topic Zesty Development
16:05 <nacc> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule
16:06 <nacc> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
16:06 <jgrimm> nacc, yes my item is done except for our followup meeting at f2f sprint
16:06 <cpaelzer> nacc: and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20161122 is updated fyi - just not the front page
16:06 <jgrimm> and yes, distracted atm
16:06 <nacc> jgrimm: thanks!
16:06 <nacc> cpaelzer: ah ok, thanks!
16:06 <nacc> any discussion for Z?
16:07 <nacc> I'm mid-merge on a few items (php7.0 + MRE for X & Y for the same), imagemagick (due to a regression)
16:07 <powersj> oh I submitted MIR for a few packages
16:07 <cpaelzer> also on MIR & merges
16:07 <powersj> htop, iotop and nicstat
16:07 <nacc> powersj: nice! seems reasonable and useful :)
16:08 <rbasak> An MIR may be needed to land sssd, stuck in zesty-proposed.
16:08 <rbasak> I added it to the blueprint.
16:08 <nacc> rbasak: thank you!
16:08 <powersj> LP: #1644364, LP: #1644368, LP: #1644372 for mine
16:08 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1644364 in htop (Ubuntu) "[MIR] htop" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1644364
16:08 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1644368 in iotop (Ubuntu) "[MIR] iotop" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1644368
16:08 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1644372 in nicstat (Ubuntu) "[MIR] nicstat" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1644372
16:08 <nacc> i guess my above link was premature :) ...
16:08 <nacc> Seems like we're all making good progress
16:08 <nacc> #subtopic Release Bugs
16:09 <nacc> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
16:09 <nacc> not too many active bugs in there yet
16:10 <nacc> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)
16:10 <nacc> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
16:11 <nacc> caribou: around?
16:13 <nacc> ok, looks like maybe not, moving on
16:13 <nacc> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
16:13 <nacc> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/
16:13 <powersj> Running cloud-init tests, need to investigate a few test framework issues/hangs, otherwise the tests are completing as expected. Investigating random hangs in simplestreams unit tests. Had the test fail on at least 4 different tests.
16:13 <powersj> Will also continue work on cloud-init integration documentation as well as getting the ppc64el baremetal system up.
16:13 <nacc> powersj: awesome
16:14 <rharper> \o/
16:14 <nacc> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
16:14 <nacc> neither are in the channel, so moving on :)
16:14 <nacc> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
16:15 <nacc> #link https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/
16:15 <nacc> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
16:15 <nacc> The Server Team has a f2f sprint next week
16:15 <nacc> Other than that, not aware of anything
16:16 <nacc> #topic Open Discussion
16:16 <rbasak> The *Canonical* part of the server team, that is :)
16:16 <nacc> rbasak: err, yes!
16:16 <nacc> any other points for discussion?
16:17 <jgrimm> I'd suggest cancelling next week meeting
16:17 <nacc> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
16:17 <nacc> and on that not e:)
16:17 <jgrimm> if you haven't done that already
16:17 <nacc> so next meeting in *two* weeks, same time, smoser to chair
16:17 <jgrimm> thanks
16:18 <nacc> I think that's everything, thank you everyone!
16:18 <nacc> #endmeeting
</pre>
