{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** jamespage and Ursinha to look into aligning release team and server team tracking reports
** jamespage to provide info to hggdh about how to run iSCSI and MAAS tests for the ISO

* Quantal Development
** Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-q-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/group/topic-quantal-servercloud-overview.html
** Review obsolete configs found by QA: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2012-September/001926.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
** CFP deadlines
** SoCal Linux Expo (Deadline: Dec. 10) http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

** ACTION: jamespage and Ursinha to look into aligning release team and server team tracking reports 
** ACTION: jamespage to provide info to hggdh about how to run iSCSI and MAAS tests for the ISO

===== Release Bugs =====
* Launchpad bug 1064420 in horizon (Ubuntu) "Ubuntu theme in Horizon dashboard causes formatting issues" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1064420
** adam_g hears that the new theme is done and ready for packaging. He will upload it this morning if it hasn't already been uploaded.
* Launchpad bug 978963 in keystone (Ubuntu Precise) "add release note that OpenStack should be used on a protected network" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/978963
** jamespage will look at this.
* Launchpad bug 1049305 in glance (Ubuntu) "package glance-registry 2012.1.3+stable~20120821-120fcf-0ubuntu1 failed to install/upgrade: sub-processo script post-installation instalado retornou estado de saída de erro 1" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1049305
** adam_g hasn't been able to reproduce this, so, so we'll drop it from tracking until it gets confirmed.
* Launchpad bug 1050595 in lowmem (Ubuntu Quantal) "Ubuntu Server installation with 128M ram hangs" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1050595
** cjwatson is still looking at this and will hand assign it to jamespage when it is ready for documentation.
* Launchpad bug 1053770 in ubuntu-meta (Ubuntu Quantal) "ubuntu-server install takes up too much space" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1053770
** jamespage will take care of this.
* Launchpad bug 1046340 in ntp (Ubuntu) "ntp package missing logcheck exceptions file /etc/logcheck/ignore.d.server/ntp" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1046340
** Unassigned; deferred to next week.
* Launchpad bug 1059907 in nova (Ubuntu) "python-nova depends on python-setuptools-git?" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1059907
** Low priority; deferred to next week.

===== Release Tracking Bug Tasks =====

* If these bugs are not fixed in trunk at this point (some of them are) then they're not getting fixed before SRU. smoser will re-target tasks as appropriate, or mark them Won't Fix.

===== Blueprints =====

* adam_g and zul will to start to postpone servercloud-q-openstack-charms and servercloud-q-openstack-qa and add them into R blueprints.

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

* UDS is in a few weeks, in Copenhagen.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====

* smb hoped that he has resolved Launchpad bug 1021471 in Linux "clone() hang when creating new network namespace (dmesg show unregister_netdevice: waiting for lo to become free. Usage count = 2)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1021471

===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) =====

* rbasak reports that MAAS on ARM is ready and noted that a couple of caveats are described in the maas-devel archives.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====
The next meeting will be at Tue, 16 Oct 2012 16:00:00 +0000.

=== Log ===
<pre>
<rbasak>	#startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
<meetingology>	Meeting started Tue Oct  9 16:00:01 2012 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
<meetingology>	Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
<rbasak>	#topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
<rbasak>	• jamespage and Ursinha to look into aligning release team and server team tracking reports
* philballew (~philip.ba@ubuntu/member/philipballew) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
* utlemming (~ben@67.199.187.66) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
* jimbaker (~jbaker@canonical/jimbaker) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<jamespage>	please carry forards
* Destine has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<rbasak>	[action] jamespage and Ursinha to look into aligning release team and server team tracking reports
<meetingology>	ACTION: jamespage and Ursinha to look into aligning release team and server team tracking reports
<rbasak>	• jamespage to provide info to hggdh about how to run iSCSI and MAAS tests for the ISO 
<jamespage>	again I've #failed
<rbasak>	Carry forwards also?
<jamespage>	hggdh - I'll ping you my iscsi testing branch now
<jamespage>	rbasak, yp
<rbasak>	[action] jamespage to provide info to hggdh about how to run iSCSI and MAAS tests for the ISO
<meetingology>	ACTION: jamespage to provide info to hggdh about how to run iSCSI and MAAS tests for the ISO
<rbasak>	#topic Quantal Development
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Quantal Development
<rbasak>	#link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseSchedule
<rbasak>	Final freeze is today
<rbasak>	#subtopic Release Bugs 
<rbasak>	#link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
<rbasak>	There's one critical bug - bug 1064420 which just came in and Daviey assigned to adam_g
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1064420 in horizon (Ubuntu) "Ubuntu theme in Horizon dashboard causes formatting issues" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1064420
<rbasak>	Should I go through the others?
<ScottK>	Final freeze is just for Main/seeded Universe packages.  Unseeded packages can still be uploaded after today.
* noy (~Noy@wesnoth/developer/noy) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<adam_g>	rbasak: i just got notification that the new theme is done and ready for packaging. will upload this morning if zul hasn't gottne to it already
<rbasak>	Great, thanks!
<arosales>	rbasak: yes lets tough on the others
<rbasak>	bug 978963
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 978963 in keystone (Ubuntu Precise) "add release note that OpenStack should be used on a protected network" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/978963
<rbasak>	This was targeted to 12.04
<rbasak>	Should we still be tracking it?
<jamespage>	I think it still needs documenting in the release notes
* jamespage takes the bug to save pain
<rbasak>	thanks jamespage!
<rbasak>	bug 1049305
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1049305 in glance (Ubuntu) "package glance-registry 2012.1.3+stable~20120821-120fcf-0ubuntu1 failed to install/upgrade: sub-processo script post-installation instalado retornou estado de saída de erro 1" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1049305
<rbasak>	This looks like it's still not reproducable 
<adam_g>	ya im not sure about that one
<rbasak>	Should we still be tracking this?
<rbasak>	cjwatson: bug 1050595 is still in progress I presume?
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1050595 in lowmem (Ubuntu Quantal) "Ubuntu Server installation with 128M ram hangs" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1050595
<adam_g>	rbasak: i would say no, unless its confirmed
<jamespage>	adam_g, +1
* TheLordOfTime (LoT@trekweb/administrator/ubuntu.lordoftime) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<rbasak>	I don't have permission to remove ~ubuntu-server-release-tracking from bug 1049305
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1049305 in glance (Ubuntu) "package glance-registry 2012.1.3+stable~20120821-120fcf-0ubuntu1 failed to install/upgrade: sub-processo script post-installation instalado retornou estado de saída de erro 1" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1049305
<rbasak>	arosales: can you do it please?
<cjwatson>	rbasak: I'll update it today or tomorrow - I've been investigating on and off, modulo secure boot pain
<rbasak>	thanks cjwatson!
<cjwatson>	rbasak: I think the result is going to be bouncing it to you guys for doc updates after all - what way should I do that?
<arosales>	rbasak: sure, I'll update 1049305
<cjwatson>	I'll check one more time but I couldn't make it work at 128M with the framebuffer on
<cjwatson>	so while maybe lowmem should be updated, it's kind of moot
<jamespage>	cjwatson, assign to me and I'll deal with it alongside the install size stuff
<cjwatson>	ok
<rbasak>	jamespage: thanks, and that answers bug 1053770 as well I guess?
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1053770 in ubuntu-meta (Ubuntu Quantal) "ubuntu-server install takes up too much space" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1053770
<jamespage>	yep
<rbasak>	bug 1046340
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1046340 in ntp (Ubuntu) "ntp package missing logcheck exceptions file /etc/logcheck/ignore.d.server/ntp" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1046340
<rbasak>	This is currently unassigned
<rbasak>	Any volunteers, or shall I leave it for next week?
<jamespage>	please do
<rbasak>	And finally bug 1059907
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1059907 in nova (Ubuntu) "python-nova depends on python-setuptools-git?" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1059907
<rbasak>	I'm not sure zul's here so we can leave that as well as it's Low.
<zul>	its not going to get fixed today unfortunately
<rbasak>	What do we do for the other stuff on the release bug page?
<rbasak>	I see one ARM ftbfs
<rbasak>	Some MIRs
<jamespage>	ftbfs looks like a non-issue - things are up-to-date
<jamespage>	mirs all juju apart from the last one
<jamespage>	so no longer current
<arosales>	jamespage: should we touch on http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-q-incoming-bug-tasks.html
<jamespage>	yeah
<jamespage>	rbasak, want me to do that?
<rbasak>	jamespage: please!
<rbasak>	#link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-q-incoming-bug-tasks.html
<jamespage>	this is the interesting link: http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-q-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
<jamespage>	SpamapS - hoping we get a 0.6 release of Juju today which closes a few of those....
<rbasak>	Should we have this link in the regular agenda?
<jamespage>	yes
* mgz (~martin@6.3.169.217.in-addr.arpa) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
* rbasak adds it
* BrokenThumb has quit (Ping timeout: 246 seconds)
<hallyn>	for bug 1017847, i'm still debating (and will probably discuss at uds) what to do about foreign arches at lxc-create
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1017847 in lxc (Ubuntu) "qemu segfaults when creating an armhf container on an amd64 host" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1017847
<hallyn>	so id shouldn't ahve the rls-q-tracking tg probably
<jamespage>	hallyn - ok - just drop the quantal task from the bug then
<hallyn>	tag?
<jamespage>	zul: bug 861656 still relevant?
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 861656 in nova (Ubuntu Quantal) "Kernel oops when nbd device is removed before it is unmounted" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/861656
<hallyn>	jamespage: i see a quantal tag, but not a task for quantal
<zul>	jamespage: yeah
<jamespage>	hallyn, sorry - its release-q-notfixing (just did it)
<hallyn>	kthx
<hallyn>	bug 1057024 also should have that tag dropped - we'll look into it during uds
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1057024 in qemu-kvm (Ubuntu) "kvm kernel module always loaded, without setting /dev/kvm permissions" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1057024
<jamespage>	smoser: any comments on the maas related bugs?
<jamespage>	bug 994781
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 994781 in maas (Ubuntu Quantal) "removing a node when it has failed commissioning is not possible from the UI" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/994781
<jamespage>	bug 975468
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 975468 in maas (Ubuntu Quantal) "consider implementing a 'security group' functionality" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/975468
<smoser>	i'll take a look at those.
<jamespage>	smoser: great - thanks
<jamespage>	I'll not list them all....
<smoser>	if they're not fixed in trunk at this point (som of them are) then they're not getting fixed before SRU
<jamespage>	smoser: please re-target tasks as appropriate (or Won't fix if need be)
<jamespage>	ivoks is not around for the dovecot one
<jamespage>	rbasak, time to move on from bugs I think
<rbasak>	#subtopic Blueprints
<rbasak>	#link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/group/topic-quantal-servercloud-overview.html
<jamespage>	please don't ask me about servercloud-q-bug-triage-review
<jamespage>	rbasak, want me to run through those as well
<rbasak>	Please
* jamespage that way I can avoid hard questions...
<jamespage>	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-openstack-charms
<jamespage>	adam_g, all on track for release?
<jamespage>	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-openstack-qa
<jamespage>	adam_g, zul - we need to start postponing those and adding them into R blueprints
<zul>	agreed ill do it
<jamespage>	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-open-attestation
<jamespage>	almost done - targetting partner so can be a little late
<jamespage>	m_3, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-juju-charm-unit-tests
* brendand has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<jamespage>	or maybe jimbaker
<jamespage>	finally https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-juju-charm-best-practices
<jamespage>	SpamapS/m_3 again
* jjohansen (~jj@static-50-53-34-211.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<jimbaker>	jamespage, i'm finalizing a test wrapper (jitsu test) to make the unit testing more reliable
<jamespage>	I guess my final comment is that we really need to be postponing any outstanding work items that won't get done in the next 7 days
<jamespage>	sorry 10 days
<jimbaker>	with the idea that it can be run by either jenkins or a developer directly
<jamespage>	carry stuff over to UDS-R if need be - but leave yourself enough time to prepare (rather than rushing to finish non-critical work items)
<arosales>	final 10 day push :-)
<jamespage>	rbasak, thats me done
<rbasak>	thanks jamespage!
<jamespage>	jimbaker, thanks for the update
<jamespage>	np
<rbasak>	#subtopic Review obsolete configs found by QA
<rbasak>	#link https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2012-September/001926.html
<rbasak>	arosales added this to the agenda on 14 September, but I don't see that it was discussed last week. Does this still need to be there?
* brendand (~brendand@94-192-232-102.zone6.bethere.co.uk) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<rbasak>	I skip it for now then I guess
<rbasak>	#topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
<TheLordOfTime>	rbasak, if i'm reading that right, some of those bugs were fixed
<TheLordOfTime>	according to LP at elast
* xnox has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
<jamespage>	something called UDS is happening in a few weeks
<rbasak>	The agenda also has: CFP deadlines -     SoCal Linux Expo (Deadline: Dec. 10) http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp
<arosales>	rbasak: that list may be a bit old, but we should sync up with QA on what configs are still old
<jamespage>	Copenhagen
<rbasak>	arosales: I presume that's tracked in the individual bugs?
<jamespage>	see https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2012-October/006403.html for details on how to raise sessions for discussion
<arosales>	hggdh: we should sync up on cofigs, re https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2012-September/001926.html
<arosales>	rbasak: yes, I think they are
<rbasak>	Any other events?
<arosales>	rbasak: it looks like  gema has them listed under relevant bugs
<rbasak>	#topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
<rbasak>	hggdh: over to you
* mgz (~martin@6.3.169.217.in-addr.arpa) has left #ubuntu-meeting
<rbasak>	I guess he's not here.
<rbasak>	#topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
<smb>	Not much to report beyond the hope of having resolved bug 1021471 for most people, except it seems for people using wl. Somewhat hoping for a bit of time without new problems to get back to the known things I failed to have time for.
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1021471 in Linux "clone() hang when creating new network namespace (dmesg show unregister_netdevice: waiting for lo to become free. Usage count = 2)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1021471
<smb>	..
* SpamapS (~clint@ubuntu/member/spamaps) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<rbasak>	Any questions for smb?
<SpamapS>	smb: for the netns bug..
* rtg (~rtg@host-174-45-44-47.hln-mt.client.bresnan.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<SpamapS>	smb: You have a fix comitted for the route cache clearing..
<SpamapS>	smb: and we'll open a new bug for WL, right?
<smb>	SpamapS, Right
<hallyn>	smb: have you tested the 3.5.6-stable tree by chance?
* ghostcube (ghostcube@unaffiliated/ghostcube) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<hallyn>	might get us some extra review of the patch and remaining bug on SpamapS' laptop
<smb>	hallyn, no that arrived later but I did not see anything addressing the first half
<smb>	hallyn, for the second that seemed to be still in 3.6, right?
<smb>	SpamapS, ^
<SpamapS>	smb: right, its in 3.6
<SpamapS>	I suspect WL is not doing something its supposed to do
<hallyn>	i think so.  my point was we can get lkml to care about the bug still in upstream, but then we can get the 3.5.6-stable tree (gregkh owns it) to care about the other bug
<smb>	hallyn, upstream is likely not to care that much about wl
<hallyn>	anyways - awesome job finding the fix!  (or workaround)
<SpamapS>	I suspect WL is not doing something its supposed to do
<SpamapS>	doh sorry
<hallyn>	smb: true.
<SpamapS>	smb: wouldn't upstream for WL be broadcom?
* herton (~herton@unaffiliated/herton) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<smb>	SpamapS, Yeah, somehow. Not sure there is much influence on them
<smb>	for part 1 i hope at some point and after some prodding we could get it to stable upstream
* hyperair (~hyperair@ubuntu/member/hyperair) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<SpamapS>	smb: seems critical enough
<rbasak>	OK, anything else for smb?
<rbasak>	Thanks smb!
<rbasak>	#topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
<rbasak>	MAAS on ARM is looking good! Everything bar squashfs should ship with 12.10, with out-of-the-box support for highbank.
<rbasak>	Note that a maas-enlist SRU (bug 1056816) is still pending. I posted a workaround to maas-devel.
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1056816 in maas-enlist (Ubuntu Precise) "maas-enlist does not post subarch" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1056816
<rbasak>	Also, you have to use "juju bootstrap --contraints arch=arm" even if your MAAS cluster is entirely arm. I don't like this so I filed bug 1064291 on this today.
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1064291 in juju "Default architecture constraint of amd64 makes no sense on arm" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1064291
<rbasak>	Any questions for me?
<arosales>	rbasak: thanks for continuing to hammer on ARM support in MAAS :-)	
<rbasak>	No problem!
<rbasak>	#topic Open Discussion
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Open Discussion
<SpamapS>	just to revisit on Juju..
<SpamapS>	I'll be releasing Juju 0.6 shortly..
<SpamapS>	followed by an FFE and (hopefully) upload to quantal.
<jimbaker>	SpamapS, awesome
<rbasak>	That sounds great. Thanks SpamapS!
<rbasak>	Any other business?
<Daviey>	SpamapS: i looked at the FFe you raised last week and ack'd that.. Needs a refresh for the latest commits
<SpamapS>	Daviey: right, should I open the new one?
<SpamapS>	Daviey: *technically* all the commits just fix bugs in the local provider... but.. with a major refactoring ;)
<Daviey>	SpamapS: nah, just bump the latest one
<Daviey>	SpamapS: I'm pretty sure it's a documentation exercise right now, but would be good to confirm.
<SpamapS>	Daviey: agreed
<SpamapS>	Daviey: the new local provider is less broken than the old one, but still a major change late in the release.
<jamespage>	SpamapS, feel free to use bug 1063697
<ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1063697 in juju (Ubuntu Quantal) "[FFe] Please update to new snapshot release ~bzr592" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1063697
<jamespage>	I think I did most of the doc work already
<SpamapS>	jamespage: sweet
<rbasak>	I guess that's it then.
<rbasak>	#topic Announce next meeting date and time
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
<rbasak>	The next meeting will be at Tue, 16 Oct 2012 16:00:00 +0000.
<rbasak>	Thanks everyone!
<rbasak>	#endmeeting
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
<meetingology>	Meeting ended Tue Oct  9 16:52:26 2012 UTC.
<meetingology>	Minutes (wiki):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-10-09-16.00.moin.txt
<meetingology>	Minutes (html):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-10-09-16.00.html
</pre>
