{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

*** Review ACTION points from previous meeting
*** Lucid release status (ttx)
          o RC milestone, ISO testing
          o Remaining RC bugs
          o Remaining work items in specs 
*** Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
*** Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
*** Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (mathiaz)
*** Maverick call for blueprints (ttx)
*** Open Discussion
*** Announce next meeting date and time 

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meetings =====

* mathiaz to fix the "server fixed bugs" broken script: NOT DONE
* ttx to follow up with ivoks/RoaKSoax on cluster stack state : DONE
* mathiaz to propose removal of dovecot-postfix on MLs: DONE

===== Lucid Release status =====

Release Candidate is in the oven, Wednesday focus should be on ISO testing and dont expect an ISO/images respin. Please test the heck out of them and dont forget to register your results.

On the remaining RC bugs side, ttx has assigned most of them to the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus|team]]</nowiki>. After the RC has been released this is the team's main focus.

Finally, there are some remaining work item in <nowiki>[[ http:--people.canonical.com-~pitti-workitems-canonical-server-ubuntu-10.04.html|specs.]]</nowiki> Most of the are about UEC testing/validation, so we should be ok.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA team (hggdh) =====

hggdh has been doing a heck of a job in testing UEC and shaking out some hard issues, resulting in a stream of issues in UEC stress testing and cloud images booting. The more we poke the more bugs are exposed. A bunch ideas were discussed on how to improve the testing which will be fleshed out at UDS.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====

smoser said no issues found in ec2 testing related to the kernel. jjohansen remarked that a little debug info was shaken out and a couple of more bugs were showing up. smoser asked if jjohansen has proposed a blueprint to get some time to trial paravirt-ops kernels for ec2, which hasnt been done yet. jjohnansen said he hasnt had a chance to look at a kernel oops which appeared in some UEC guests.

===== SRU =====

No new SRU bugs were nominated. mathiaz did mention that the SRU process will be changed, and raised the issue of a dedicated resource for lucid SRU for the point release.

[ACTION] ttx to confirm with jib lucid SRU resource allocation

===== Maverick Call for blueprints =====

ttx raised the call for Maverick blueprints. If you want to suggest a UDS session topic, feel free to file an Ubuntu blueprint. The named is server-maverick-* and the approver must be set to Jos Boumans" At this point only one blueprint has been proposed. A page has been setup to capture braindumps and sepcs which is found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/MaverickIdeaPool|here]]</nowiki>.

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, April 28th at 14:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. 

=== Log ===
<pre>
[14:57] <zul> gday
[14:57] <mjeanson> hi
[14:58] <kirkland> [o]
[14:58] <ttx> ]o[
[14:59] <mathiaz> \u\
[14:59] <Daviey> \o
[14:59] <jmdault> o/
[15:00] <jjohansen> o]
[15:00] <ttx> ok, let's get started !
[15:00] <ttx> #startmeeting
[15:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 09:00. The chair is ttx.
[15:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[15:00] <RoAkSoAx> o/
[15:00] <ttx> Welcome to the Ubuntu Server team meeting !
[15:00] <zul> wheee
[15:00] <ttx> Agenda is at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[15:00] <ttx> Scribe is: zul !
[15:01] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[15:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[15:01] <ttx> * mathiaz to fix the "server fixed bugs" broken script
[15:01] <smoser> \o
[15:01] <mathiaz> ttx: still on my TODO
[15:02] <ttx> ttx to follow up with ivoks/RoaKSoax on cluster stack state : DONE
[15:02] <ttx> * mathiaz to propose removal of dovecot-postfix on MLs
[15:02] <mathiaz> ttx: that has been done
[15:02] <mathiaz> ScottK: ^^
[15:02] <zul> and the fix has been uploaded
[15:02] <mathiaz> zul: great thanks
[15:02] <ttx> mathiaz: without a strong consensus, I see
[15:03] <mathiaz> ttx: about the fix or the removal?
[15:03] <mathiaz> ttx: I'm fine with the fix
[15:03] <ttx> abouit the removal :)
[15:03] <mathiaz> ttx: as long as the use of dovecot-postfix.conf has been discarded
[15:03] <ttx> mathiaz: does that prove the need for a UDS session on taht subject, to set expectations for the Maverick cycle ?
[15:04] <mathiaz> ttx: not specifically
[15:04] <mathiaz> ttx: there may be a more generic what to do with the mail server though
[15:04] <ttx> mathiaz: yes
[15:04] <ttx> [TOPIC] Lucid release status
[15:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Lucid release status
[15:04] <ttx> So the RC is in the oven, should be released tomorrow
[15:05] <ttx> Today's focus is on ISO testing coverage
[15:05] <ttx> We don't expect a server ISO/images respin, so please test the heck out of them
[15:05]  * kirkland is on it
[15:06] <ttx> Don't forget to register your test results... and mark the tests you started as "started" for coordination
[15:06] <ttx> On the remaining RC bugs side... I assigned most of them to the team, at the very least you should look into them and comment whether they can and should be fixed by release day, or as a post-release SRU
[15:07] <ttx> the watch list is updated at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus
[15:07] <ttx> that's the team main focus for after-RC
[15:08] <ttx> Finally, you have some remaining work items in specs
[15:08] <ttx> See http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-server-ubuntu-10.04.html
[15:08] <ttx> Most of them are about UEC testing/validation so we should be ok, but don't forget those :)
[15:08]  * hggdh kicks evolution and its 1G  resident memory
[15:09] <ttx> Questions on release management, priorities for the next week, etc. ?
[15:09] <zul> nyet
[15:10] <hggdh> pas
[15:10] <ttx> About post-RC fix vs. early SRU: it's mostly the release team decision based on the impact of the proposed patch vs. how impacting is the bug.
[15:10] <ttx> but you should be able to make an educated guess :)
[15:10] <ttx> ok, moving on to:
[15:10] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[15:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[15:11] <ttx> hggdh: how is it going in QA land ?
[15:11] <hggdh> life is not as good as I expected ;-)
[15:11] <kirkland> ttx: hggdh has been doing a heck of a job testing UEC
[15:11] <kirkland> ttx: shaking out some hard issue
[15:11] <hggdh> we are still going along, though. All of you have been extremely helpful on my bugs
[15:12] <hggdh> er. not *mine*, I mean
[15:12] <ttx> yes, we still have a stream of issues in UEC stresstesting and cloud images boot
[15:12] <hggdh> yes. Right now it seems the more we poke, the more bugs fall
[15:12] <ttx> kirkland, smoser: I kept you out of the other server bugs so that you can concentrate on those
[15:13] <kirkland> hggdh: that's our job ;-)
[15:13] <ttx> hggdh: you seem to have the Gift !
[15:13] <hggdh> mathiaz scripts have helped a lot, BTW
[15:13] <kirkland> ttx: thanks, much appreciated, we're actively working those
[15:14] <hggdh> ttx: right now, this is pretty much what I can tell you... sorry
[15:14] <ttx> hggdh: the regression build rig seems to have triggered a few recent messages
[15:14] <ttx> hggdh: do you plan to have a maverick spec to cover what we should do now with this ?
[15:14] <hggdh> hum. I have not looked at my emails today, but I do not remember any from yesterday (except atlas, but this is not aq worry)
[15:15] <ttx> hggdh: they were from this morning.
[15:15] <hggdh> ttx: you mean the regression rig? Yes, I do have some ideas. We should keep it, and expand it
[15:15] <ttx> hggdh: planning a UDS session / blueprint on the subject ?
[15:16] <kirkland> hggdh: ttx: i suggest some "barriers", that would allow a topo to deploy with one button
[15:16] <kirkland> hggdh: ttx: rather than triggering each system individually
[15:16] <hggdh> I am going to put it in the QA pool of ideas, and someone will decide on it
[15:16] <kirkland> hggdh: ttx: possibly as simple as an early command that sleeps/waits until its dependendent systems are installed
[15:17] <ttx> kirkland: I was talking about the build regression rig, the thing that rebuilds a set of package daily
[15:17] <hggdh> kirkland: yeah, something like that. I would also like to have at least one more rig
[15:17] <ttx> and mails out tons of errors :)
[15:17] <ttx> ah, plenty of interesting discussions coming up in Brussels.. volcano smoke allowing.
[15:18] <hggdh> heh
[15:18] <ttx> Other questions for QA team ?
[15:18] <hggdh> everybody says smoke is bad to our health
[15:18] <hggdh> no, we are good
[15:19] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[15:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[15:19] <ttx> hggdh: thanks !
[15:19] <ttx> jjohansen: o/
[15:19] <hggdh> ttx: just an aside -- we should talk, when possible, on the autonmated server tests
[15:19] <jjohansen> hey
[15:19] <jjohansen> so not much has changed on the kernel side since last week
[15:20] <ttx> jjohansen: which is good :)
[15:20] <smoser> no issues found in ec2 testing related to kernel
[15:20] <jjohansen> a little more debug info shaken out, and a couple more bugs showing up
[15:20] <smoser> other than possibly bug 567334
[15:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 567334 in linux "blocked tasks delay cloud-init for 240 seconds" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/567334
[15:21] <jjohansen> right
[15:21] <ttx> I don'ty have any new burning issue myself... but it's sometimes difficult to be aware of existing kernel bugs affecting server
[15:21] <smoser> jjohansen, i wonder if you've proposed a blueprint or some mechanism to get official time to trial paravirt-ops kernels on ec2
[15:22] <jjohansen> smoser: not yet
[15:22] <jjohansen> it will come I still need to poke that beast a little bit this week
[15:22] <smoser> i know how difficult or unlikely getting that to work is, but *I* would really like it, and I know it'd make your job much easier if you didn't have thousands of lines of patches
[15:23] <jjohansen> hehe, well that is motivation to get it working :)
[15:23] <zul> what no more hulking patch?
[15:24] <ttx> ok, any other questions/concerns to transmit to the kernel team ?
[15:24] <kirkland> jjohansen: no progress on that oops?
[15:24] <kirkland> jjohansen: that we're seeing in some UEC guests?
[15:25] <kirkland> jjohansen: seems to be only on certain hardware
[15:25] <jjohansen> kirkland: no :(
[15:25] <kirkland> jjohansen: alrighty, thanks
[15:25] <kirkland> jjohansen: i suspect this will need an SRU eventually
[15:25] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[15:25] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[15:25] <jjohansen> though that isn't the only bug we have seen that is hardware specifi
[15:25] <kirkland> jjohansen: right
[15:25] <ttx> mathiaz: o/
[15:26] <mathiaz> a few bugs from karmic:
[15:26] <mathiaz> bug 156636
[15:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 156636 in openssh "Please package openssh with LPK patch" [Unknown,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/156636
[15:26] <mathiaz> bug 494141
[15:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 494141 in samba "CUPS starts after SAMBA; printers are not available" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/494141
[15:27] <mathiaz> Both should be decline IMO
[15:27] <ttx> not fixed in dev release
[15:27] <ttx> so not candidates for SRU
[15:28] <mathiaz> that's all as far as I can say
[15:28] <mathiaz> given that the bugs-fixed-lately script is broken
[15:28] <ttx> ok, that was fast !
[15:29] <mathiaz> anything worth fixing in SRU from last week?
[15:29]  * kirkland wagers that the SRU portion of this meeting is about to get a lot more interesting in about ~2 weeks :-)
[15:29] <mathiaz> kirkland: right
[15:29] <mathiaz> kirkland: I'll add the lucid nominations list once lucid is released
[15:29]  * ttx wagers that there should be an interesting discussion about SRU handling at UDS in ~3 weeks :-)
[15:29] <kirkland> ttx: oh?  changes on the way?
[15:29] <RoAkSoAx>  /join #ubuntu-ha
[15:29] <mathiaz> which means that the first (few?) meetings may see more SRU activity
[15:30] <ttx> kirkland: well, we should at least discuss if our current process fits the bill for Lucid
[15:30] <kirkland> ttx: ah
[15:30] <kirkland> mathiaz: i think so ...  there's a number of things we'll want to fix for Lucid that didn't make release
[15:30] <kirkland> mathiaz: and probably a number of new issues that come up as people upgrade
[15:31] <ttx> i'm not sure it gives us the tracking information we'll need, so far
[15:31] <mathiaz> Are then any plans to put dedicated ressource on lucid SRU?
[15:31] <mathiaz> the same way as we did for Hardy?
[15:31] <ttx> that's a good question and I don't know the answer.
[15:32] <ttx> [ACTION] ttx to confirm with jib lucid SRU resource allocation
[15:32] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to confirm with jib lucid SRU resource allocation
[15:32] <zul> i think we should because most users probably wont upgrade until .1
[15:32] <zul> imho
[15:32] <ttx> mathiaz: could you explain what happened in hardy, for reference ?
[15:33] <mathiaz> ttx: IIRC some of the desktop team members spent time on hardy SRUs.
[15:33] <mathiaz> ttx: until enf of June IIRC
[15:33] <mathiaz> ttx: ask pitti or seb128
[15:33] <ttx> zul: yes, we need a way to track and coordinate the amount of work we'll all do in that area... and possibly someone dedicated to tracking it
[15:33] <zul> ttx: I wa working on SRU for the hardy point release
[15:33] <kirkland> ttx: yeah, zul worked on hardy.1, and i worked on hardy.2
[15:34] <ttx> noted, thanks !
[15:34] <ttx> [TOPIC] Maverick call for blueprints
[15:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick call for blueprints
[15:34] <ttx> So UDS is nearing and volcano smoke seems to clear out
[15:35] <zul> volcano smoke is overblown
[15:35] <ttx> If you want to suggest a UDS session topic, feel free to file an Ubuntu blueprint !
[15:35] <ttx> name is server-maverick-*
[15:35] <ttx> and approver must be set to "Jos Boumans"
[15:35] <ttx> at tha point only one was filed:
[15:35] <ttx> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-maverick-wbemcim-providers
[15:36] <ttx> I also set up a page to braindump and track the propsoed sessions:
[15:36] <ttx> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/MaverickIdeaPool
[15:36] <ttx> I'll add a lot more sessions from the team internal braindump in the next hours/days
[15:37] <ttx> so no need for the Canonical server team to spend time on editing that page
[15:37] <ttx> but everyone else is more than welcome to do so !
[15:38] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[15:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[15:38] <ttx> anything/anyone ?
[15:39] <padhu> What about lucid?
[15:39] <ttx> padhu: what what about lucid ?
[15:39] <ttx> padhu: it goes out next week
[15:40] <ttx> hopefully :)
[15:40] <padhu> In time?
[15:40] <ttx> team: is sleeping getting any better ?
[15:40] <ttx> padhu: at this point, yes...
[15:40] <mathiaz> ttx: still on track
[15:41] <ttx> padhu: but being late is, by essence, unpredictable.
[15:41] <padhu> Happy to hear it. I am waiting eagerly
[15:41] <ttx> padhu: I'd advise you to downlaod and test the RC which goes out tomorrow ! That will make the release all the more enjoyable to you.
[15:42] <ttx> the sooner we know wbout bugs, the sooner we can fix them.
[15:42] <zul> ttx:yep
[15:42] <ttx> ... and by definition, no significant change is expected between RC and final.
[15:42] <padhu> oh
[15:43] <padhu> i will try
[15:43] <ttx> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[15:43] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[15:43] <ttx> Same place, same time, next week, in the middle of the release frenzy
[15:43] <ttx> i'll be in London next week, hopefully I'll be able to spend time on the meeting
[15:44] <ttx> Thanks everyone !
[15:44] <ttx> #endmeeting

</pre>
