{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* V Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) =====

* matsubara reports that some of the server smoke tests are still failing. He'll investigate and report bugs as necessary.
* ''LINK:'': http://d-jenkins.ubuntu-ci:8080/view/Vivid/view/Smoke%20Testing/

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====
 
* smb reports that two bcache bugs need feedback: bug <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1425288|1425288]]</nowiki> and bug <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1425128|1425128]]</nowiki>. matsubara assigned a action to James Page to have a look at those.

===== Meeting Actions =====

* James to give feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Apr 7th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <matsubara> #startmeeting
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Mar 31 16:01:43 2015 UTC.  The chair is matsubara. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
[16:01] <matsubara> hello there
[16:01] <rbasak> o/
[16:02] <matsubara> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <matsubara> no action items from last meeting
[16:02] <matsubara> #topic Vivid Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Vivid Development
[16:02] <beisner> o/ hi all
[16:02] <matsubara> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
[16:02] <caribou> o/
[16:02] <coreycb> o/
[16:03] <strikov> o/
[16:03] <matsubara> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:03] <matsubara> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:03] <matsubara> that report is empty for me
[16:03] <matsubara> really odd that sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't
[16:04] <matsubara> ACTION: matsubara to chase someone in the QA team to fix http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:04] <matsubara> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:04] <matsubara> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html
[16:05] <matsubara> how's that coming along? reminder to all to keep the blueprint status up to date
[16:06] <matsubara> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:07] <matsubara> anything from you caribou?
[16:08] <caribou> nothing on my side, was sprinting all week
[16:08] <matsubara> thanks caribou
[16:08] <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:09] <matsubara> There are still some smoke tests from UTAH failing on daily basis. It's in my todo list to look for the root cause and file bugs for it.
[16:09] <matsubara> #link http://d-jenkins.ubuntu-ci:8080/view/Vivid/view/Smoke%20Testing/
[16:09] <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:09] <smb> Only wanted to mention that some bcache related bugs would still require some feedback (bug 1425288 and bug 1425128).
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1425288 in linux (Ubuntu) "kernel NULL pointer dereference during bcache cache_set_flush call" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1425288
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1425128 in linux (Ubuntu Trusty) "bcache causes task hang with 3.13 kernel" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1425128
[16:09] <smb> That would be all from my side.
[16:10] <strikov> smb: Thanks for your nested kvm fix btw
[16:11] <smb> :) you are welcome
[16:11] <matsubara> smb, thanks. Any specific people in the server team needs to look at those?
[16:11] <smb> Not sure who jamespage mentioned last time
[16:13] <matsubara> #action jamespage to provide feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128
[16:13] <meetingology> ACTION: jamespage to provide feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128
[16:13] <ubottu> bug 1425128 in linux (Ubuntu Trusty) "bcache causes task hang with 3.13 kernel" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1425128
[16:13] <ubottu> bug 1425288 in linux (Ubuntu) "kernel NULL pointer dereference during bcache cache_set_flush call" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1425288
[16:13] <matsubara> thanks smb
[16:13] <matsubara> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:14] <matsubara> None that I'm aware of
[16:14] <matsubara> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Open Discussion
[16:15] <matsubara> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:16] <matsubara> next meeting same time next week, Apr 7th. gaughen will chair
[16:16] <matsubara> #endmeeting
</pre>
