{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 20 Jun at 15:59 &mdash; 16:46 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-06-20-15.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:01.

** ''ACTION:'' rbasak to add maintainership info to mysql triage page (carried over)
** ''ACTION:'' nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)
** ''ACTION:'' nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)
** ''ACTION:'' rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)
** ''ACTION:'' rharper to write a release notes entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)
** ''LINK:'' http://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ 

==== Artful Development ====
The discussion about "Artful Development" started at 16:06.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtfulAardvark/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Trello''' (16:06)
** ''LINK:'' https://trello.com/b/U9HhWyT0/daily-ubuntu-server 
* '''Active work that may need wider communication''' (16:07)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-aa-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''ACTION:'' cpaelzer reach out to ubuntu-devel@/AA and find out if an audit log of package exceptions exists anywhere

==== Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (slashd) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (slashd)" started at 16:15.

** SRU pending for : percona-xtradb-cluster-5.5, nfs-utils, autofs5, percona-xtradb-cluster-5.6 percona-xtradb-cluster-5.5, multipath-tools, isc-dhcp
** SRU pending for : percona-xtradb-cluster-5.5, nfs-utils, autofs5, percona-xtradb-cluster-5.6 percona-xtradb-cluster-5.5, multipath-tools, isc-dhcp
** further SRU pending: qemu, ntp

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:20.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 
** ''LINK:'' https://github.com/lxc/pylxd/issues/232 
** ''LINK:'' https://github.com/lxc/pylxd/issues/232 
** ''ACTION:'' dpb look into why this is stalled https://github.com/lxc/pylxd/issues/232
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting 
** ''ACTION:'' dpb add on the #topic server ddstreet as a backup in case slashd is absent ?

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:24.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:27.

** ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://event.share.org/page/share-providence-registration 
** cpaelzer interested in investgating for useful content.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:30.

** ''LINK:'' http://events.share.org/Summer2017/Public/Sessions.aspx?undefinedSuperTrackId=&TrackId=&AssociationId=&DateId=&FormatId=&DurationId=&SpeakerId=&AbilityLevelId=&SessionTypeId=&SubExpoId=&Keyword=ubuntu&&SearchEvent=&View=Sessions_summary 
** ''LINK:'' http://events.share.org/Summer2017/Public/Sessions.aspx?undefinedSuperTrackId=&TrackId=&AssociationId=&DateId=&FormatId=&DurationId=&SpeakerId=&AbilityLevelId=&SessionTypeId=&SubExpoId=&Keyword=ubuntu&&SearchEvent=&View=Sessions_summary 
** ''IDEA:'' new bug squashing day is needed  (dpb1, 16:32)
** ''ACTION:'' powersj schedule a bugsquashing day!

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:35.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase 
** ''HELP:'' please review https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase esp. triage section  (dpb1, 16:37)
** ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16CTKVQUjG78xi527_68uN4kVQ2EVYo6T7pFGouVwL_k/edit?ts=57abafba#gid=734042816 
** ''LINK:'' https://github.com/powersj/ubuntu-server-triage/pull/13 
** ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16CTKVQUjG78xi527_68uN4kVQ2EVYo6T7pFGouVwL_k/edit?ts=57abafba#gid=734042816 
** ''LINK:'' https://github.com/powersj/ubuntu-server-triage/pull/13 
** ''ACTION:'' check progress on clearing expiration backlog (all of us)
** ''ACTION:'' add agenda item for next week to check on triage progress.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:44.

** Next meeting Tuesday, 2017-06-27 at 1600 UTC, chair will be ahasenack

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* cpaelzer
** cpaelzer reach out to ubuntu-devel@/AA and find out if an audit log of package exceptions exists anywhere
* nacc
** nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)
** nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)
* powersj
** powersj schedule a bugsquashing day!
* rbasak
** rbasak to add maintainership info to mysql triage page (carried over)
* rharper
** rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)
** rharper to write a release notes entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)
* dpb
** dpb add on the #topic server ddstreet as a backup in case slashd is absent ?
** dpb look into why this is stalled https://github.com/lxc/pylxd/issues/232
** dpb add agenda item for next week to check on triage progress.

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* dpb1 (98)
* cpaelzer (96)
* teward (15)
* ahasenack (14)
* meetingology (14)
* powersj (13)
* slashd (10)
* rbasak (7)
* smb (5)
* rharper (4)
* nacc (3)

=== Full Log ===

 15:59 <dpb1> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 15:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 20 15:59:52 2017 UTC.  The chair is dpb1. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 15:59 <meetingology> 

 15:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 15:59 <dpb1> who we got?

 16:00 <ahasenack> o/

 16:00 * dpb1 stokes fire a bit waiting for people to show

 16:00 <rbasak> o/

 16:00 <smb> o/

 16:01 <dpb1> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:02 <powersj> o/

 16:02 <dpb1> #action  rbasak to add maintainership info to mysql triage page (carried over)

 16:02 * meetingology rbasak to add maintainership info to mysql triage page (carried over)

 16:02 <rbasak> Carry over please

 16:03 <dpb1> hm

 16:03 <dpb1> to carry over do we just leave it sit?

 16:03 * rbasak is adding a Trello card :-/

 16:03 <dpb1> ty

 16:03 <dpb1> #action nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:03 * meetingology nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:03 <dpb1> #action nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:03 * meetingology nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:03 <dpb1> still want to do these two nacc ?

 16:04 <teward> (I'm late, sorry)

 16:04 <nacc> dpb1: yeah, carry them please

 16:04 <cpaelzer> the embarrassment-level of having these all these release notes still around is rising :-)

 16:04 <cpaelzer> hi teward

 16:04 <dpb1> ok rharper your turn

 16:04 <dpb1> rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)

 16:04 <dpb1> rharper to write a release notes entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)

 16:04 <dpb1> these feel more done, since we have them on rtd

 16:05 <rharper> carry of course

 16:05 <dpb1> could we link them to the RTD pages?

 16:05 <rharper> yes

 16:05 <ahasenack> what's rtf?

 16:05 <ahasenack> er

 16:05 <ahasenack> rtd

 16:05 <dpb1> readthedocs

 16:05 <rharper> Read The Docs

 16:05 <dpb1> #action rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)

 16:05 * meetingology rharper to write a server guide entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)

 16:05 <dpb1> #action rharper to write a release notes entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)

 16:05 * meetingology rharper to write a release notes entry on v2 yaml support in cloud-init (carried over)

 16:05 <cpaelzer> #link http://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

 16:05 <dpb1> #link http://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

 16:06 <cpaelzer> thanks dpb1

 16:06 <dpb1> #topic Artful Development

 16:06 <dpb1> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtfulAardvark/ReleaseSchedule

 16:06 <dpb1> #subtopic Trello

 16:06 <dpb1> Just wanted to let everyone know we have replaced "the blueprint" with a trello board

 16:07 <dpb1> #link https://trello.com/b/U9HhWyT0/daily-ubuntu-server

 16:07 <dpb1> know we talked about it last week, but just a reminder

 16:07 <teward> dpb1: +1 for that - it's a lot more useful than 'the blueprint' in my opinion.

 16:07 <dpb1> thx teward

 16:07 <teward> (also better at-a-glance to see what's going on in what states)

 16:07 <dpb1> +1

 16:07 <dpb1> #subtopic Active work that may need wider communication

 16:08 <dpb1> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-aa-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:08 <cpaelzer> I have something I wondered on devel, actually on proposed migration in general

 16:08 <dpb1> floor is yours cpaelzer

 16:08 <cpaelzer> if any migration issues were overrulled by the power of an AA or such, can that be tracked afterwards anywhere?

 16:08 <cpaelzer> -l

 16:09 <ahasenack> what are the usual reasons?

 16:09 <ahasenack> flaky tests?/

 16:09 <teward> testsuite fail

 16:09 <cpaelzer> yes

 16:09 <teward> package dependencies not built

 16:09 <teward> etc.

 16:09 <ahasenack> I think for flaky tests a bug can be filed

 16:09 <ahasenack> we shouldn't get used to failing tests

 16:10 <teward> there's also the case where "new binary packages" exist that didn't exist before and they usually are just cashiered in.

 16:10 <dpb1> cpaelzer: you mean, we have moved the trello card into done already, that kind of tracking?

 16:10 <cpaelzer> no

 16:10 <cpaelzer> let me explain

 16:10 <cpaelzer> I had a package which is a auto-sync from Debian

 16:10 <cpaelzer> and it passed into artful, so it has completed its proposed migration

 16:11 <cpaelzer> I was wondering if somebody "shoved" it through as since then all related tests were failing

 16:11 <teward> don't non-merge autosyncs skip proposed migration?

 16:12 <cpaelzer> I have seen other auto-syncs in migration

 16:12 <cpaelzer> if some skip there must be a splitter somewhere which decides

 16:12 <cpaelzer> e.g. mininet 2.2.2-1 was in artful, but until then http://autopkgtest.ubuntu.com/packages/mininet/artful/amd64 had NO listing of any 2.2.2-1 test

 16:12 <cpaelzer> but I don't want to pick on this case

 16:12 <cpaelzer> I have found and fixed it

 16:13 <cpaelzer> I wonder if I have package X in release Y - is there any way/place I can check if anything was --force ?

 16:13 <dpb1> audit log

 16:13 <cpaelzer> like as launchpad has a publication history if there is a "package exception history" anywhere?

 16:13 <dpb1> or something like that

 16:13 <cpaelzer> yeah

 16:13 <ahasenack> I guess only an AA can answer

 16:13 <dpb1> Might be worth a reach out to ubuntu-devel

 16:14 <cpaelzer> maybe with better words, but yes

 16:14 <cpaelzer> ok I'll take an action to ask

 16:14 <cpaelzer> I wanted to know it, so I volunteer to ask about it

 16:14 <dpb1> #action cpaelzer reach out to ubuntu-devel@/AA and find out if an audit log of package exceptions exists anywhere

 16:14 * meetingology cpaelzer reach out to ubuntu-devel@/AA and find out if an audit log of package exceptions exists anywhere

 16:15 <dpb1> Any other topics to bring up about artful development?

 16:15 <dpb1> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (slashd)

 16:15 <slashd> Here's the list of LP bugs that SEG is currently working on : http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/24908778/

 16:15 <slashd> - By any chance, if there is a SRU verification member amongst us who has some cycle, we would appreciate to have someone approving the upload listed under [SRU verification needed] ^. Otherwise, it's fine I'll ask the SRU vanguard.

 16:15 <slashd> - Also note that we are currently working on a MIR process to request to uplift 'pcp' pkg from Ubuntu universe to Ubuntu main. The paper work is not ready yet, but we are working on it. I'll probably have more to say about it next week.

 16:16 <slashd> #info SRU pending for : percona-xtradb-cluster-5.5, nfs-utils, autofs5, percona-xtradb-cluster-5.6 percona-xtradb-cluster-5.5, multipath-tools, isc-dhcp

 16:16 <dpb1> #info SRU pending for : percona-xtradb-cluster-5.5, nfs-utils, autofs5, percona-xtradb-cluster-5.6 percona-xtradb-cluster-5.5, multipath-tools, isc-dhcp

 16:17 <cpaelzer> adding - #info further SRU pending: qemu, ntp

 16:17 <dpb1> rbasak: any suggestion on the SRU for slashd?

 16:17 <dpb1> #info further SRU pending: qemu, ntp

 16:17 <rbasak> It's an endless queue unfortunately. It's my SRU day tomorrow - I'll take a look if I get that far.

 16:18 <slashd> rbasak, thanks

 16:18 <dpb1> slashd: any help needed on the bug list?

 16:18 <cpaelzer> slashd: I wonder - are you usually relying on SRU verification team?

 16:18 <slashd> dpb1, everything is under control

 16:19 <cpaelzer> usually we try to get the reporters to help, who would that be in your case

 16:19 <cpaelzer> any on site partner maybe?

 16:19 <slashd> cpaelzer, we are always relying on them for SRU

 16:19 <cpaelzer> or are they totally out of the loop in your case?

 16:19 <cpaelzer> ah ok, then it is the same

 16:19 <cpaelzer> so "just" the normal SRU duty

 16:19 <cpaelzer> which rbasak and his peers are fighting the queue

 16:19 <cpaelzer> thanks slashd

 16:20 <dpb1> thanks slashd for the summary, interesting bugs this week. :)

 16:20 <dpb1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:20 <dpb1> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/

 16:20 <powersj> Last week got the cloud-init tests of COPR complete and running daily. Overhauled the daily tests of cloud-init and as of last night, got the CI pipeline in place and operational. Continue to run into some issues with pylxd and lxd 2.14, so running a local patched version of pylxd until pypi can be updated. And a blog post on our sprint.

 16:20 <powersj> This week get the CI pipeline announced, get the ISO tests green, and back to proposed testing.

 16:20 <powersj> questions?

 16:21 <dpb1> have you checked with anyone on the pylxd issue?

 16:21 <dpb1> or is there a bug filed?

 16:21 <powersj> yes it is a matter of getting a new version uploaded to pypi

 16:21 <powersj> and yes

 16:21 <dpb1> linky linky?

 16:22 <powersj> https://github.com/lxc/pylxd/issues/232

 16:22 <slashd> dpb1, Is it possible to add on the #topic server ddstreet as a backup in case I'm absent ?

 16:22 <dpb1> #link https://github.com/lxc/pylxd/issues/232

 16:22 <dpb1> #action dpb look into why this is stalled https://github.com/lxc/pylxd/issues/232

 16:22 * meetingology dpb look into why this is stalled https://github.com/lxc/pylxd/issues/232

 16:23 <rbasak> slashd: I suggest you just go ahead and edit

 16:23 <rbasak> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting

 16:23 <dpb1> slashd: I'll do it

 16:23 <slashd> rbasak, dpb1 I did but it seems ddstreet disapeared from the list.

 16:23 <dpb1> #action dpb add on the #topic server ddstreet as a backup in case slashd is absent ?

 16:23 * meetingology dpb add on the #topic server ddstreet as a backup in case slashd is absent ?

 16:23 <slashd> dpb1, thanks

 16:23 <dpb1> slashd: thx for bringing it up

 16:24 <dpb1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)

 16:24 * rbasak suspects someone is using something other than the agenda to paste in meetingology commands :-)

 16:24 <smb> An embargoed CVE uncloaked on your port side. Many new kernels launched. Otherwise the 4.11 kernel for artful still waits in proposed for better times (not sure what keeps it as I was distracted by previous news item). Are there questions?

 16:25 <cpaelzer> smb: since you love the questions ahead of time, 4.14 next LTS is that in time for 18.04 ?

 16:25 <dpb1> rbasak: (aside) it's why I took the action, I want to clean up the sources of truth

 16:26 <smb> cpaelzer, maybe too soon even.

 16:26 <smb> cpaelzer, estimated release of 4.14 is Nov-2017

 16:26 <cpaelzer> ~November/December

 16:26 <cpaelzer> yeah

 16:26 <cpaelzer> too bad

 16:26 <cpaelzer> try to stall the current 70 day cacle :-)

 16:27 <dpb1> As the kernel turns....

 16:27 <smb> Those plans ever worked sooo well

 16:27 <dpb1> OK.

 16:27 <dpb1> thx smb

 16:27 <dpb1> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:27 <dpb1> #link https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/

 16:28 <powersj> I did submit for debconf, but haven't heard back

 16:28 <dpb1> any conferences or deadlines people are aiming for?

 16:28 <cpaelzer> I heard that people are going to http://event.share.org/page/share-providence-registration

 16:29 <cpaelzer> but it is too late to submit own ones

 16:29 <cpaelzer> I'll track feedback from there with jfh, if it seems useful I might consider that next time

 16:29 <cpaelzer> I was a regular speaker there in the past which might help to get accepted

 16:29 <cpaelzer> but for now just FYI

 16:29 <dpb1> #link http://event.share.org/page/share-providence-registration

 16:30 <dpb1> #info cpaelzer interested in investgating for useful content.

 16:30 <dpb1> that will be a great line item in the meeting notes

 16:30 <teward> heh

 16:30 <dpb1> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:30 <cpaelzer> hehe

 16:31 <teward> better than what cpaelzer is taking from an OOB discussion as a quote regarding NTP from me xD  (lol)

 16:31 <cpaelzer> #link http://events.share.org/Summer2017/Public/Sessions.aspx?undefinedSuperTrackId=&TrackId=&AssociationId=&DateId=&FormatId=&DurationId=&SpeakerId=&AbilityLevelId=&SessionTypeId=&SubExpoId=&Keyword=ubuntu&&SearchEvent=&View=Sessions_summary

 16:31 <cpaelzer> all ubuntu covering sessions scheduled for this time

 16:31 <cpaelzer> but we are at Team events, sorry - too late

 16:31 <dpb1> #link http://events.share.org/Summer2017/Public/Sessions.aspx?undefinedSuperTrackId=&TrackId=&AssociationId=&DateId=&FormatId=&DurationId=&SpeakerId=&AbilityLevelId=&SessionTypeId=&SubExpoId=&Keyword=ubuntu&&SearchEvent=&View=Sessions_summary

 16:31 <powersj> we need another bug squashing day, been too long

 16:31 <dpb1> cpaelzer: it's ok, the meeting notes are already sunk this week, best to sink them all the way

 16:32 <cpaelzer> powersj: +1 *

 16:32 <dpb1> #idea new bug squashing day is needed

 16:32 <cpaelzer> * = if nothing in server-next teases you please help clear the expiring backlog

 16:32 <cpaelzer> more on the open discussion

 16:33 <dpb1> powersj: how do we normally announce it?

 16:33 * cpaelzer is waiting for dpb1 to spin the topic-wheel-of-fortune

 16:33 <powersj> to mailing list

 16:33 <cpaelzer> nacc: writes to the list

 16:33 <cpaelzer> and we update the wiki

 16:33 <cpaelzer> there is a common header on all our pages

 16:33 <nacc> technically anyone can do it

 16:33 <nacc> :)

 16:33 <dpb1> I nominate powersj to do it

 16:33 <powersj> *sigh*

 16:33 <dpb1> any seconds?

 16:34 <dpb1> :)

 16:34 <powersj> go ahead and give me the action, I'll show the rest of you how to complete an action item

 16:34 <powersj> ;)

 16:34 <cpaelzer> yeah !!

 16:34 <dpb1> #humblebrag

 16:34 <rharper> lol

 16:34 <dpb1> #action powersj schedule a bugsquashing day!

 16:34 * meetingology powersj schedule a bugsquashing day!

 16:34 <dpb1> exciting

 16:35 <dpb1> #topic Open Discussion

 16:35 <teward> just... keep yer mitts off nginx - it's gonna have some rapid-changes in the next while :P

 16:35 <dpb1> teward: yay!

 16:35 <teward> (I literally have an upload 'prepped' if it passes sbuild fails)

 16:35 <teward> s/fails//

 16:35 <cpaelzer> nice

 16:35 <ahasenack> cpaelzer: you had something here?

 16:35 <cpaelzer> yeah

 16:35 * dpb1 notices the fire is getting low, good time for open discussion

 16:35 * teward tosses more logs on the fire.

 16:35 <cpaelzer> we gave some more content to

 16:35 <teward> :P

 16:36 <cpaelzer> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

 16:36 <cpaelzer> There was he suggestion that the better we define that the more we can have:

 16:36 <cpaelzer> 1. agreement how we actually do things - yeah

 16:36 <cpaelzer> 2. give other people a chance to help us

 16:36 <cpaelzer> Please anyone who can give it a review and improvment

 16:36 <cpaelzer> we can then use that if we get requests to help our triaging, backlog clearing, ...

 16:36 <dpb1> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

 16:37 <cpaelzer> along that there is another change to discuss

 16:37 <cpaelzer> since the Team sprint we report all expiring backlog

 16:37 <dpb1> #help please review https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase esp. triage section

 16:37 <cpaelzer> the list is so long that nobody tackles the remaining bugs

 16:37 <cpaelzer> and it is discouraging being on triage schedule

 16:38 <cpaelzer> rbasak: brought up (thanks!) that this is just the same again we had with triaging at all

 16:38 <cpaelzer> there we made a list of all the backlog we have

 16:38 <cpaelzer> and picked them one by one as we could afford to do so

 16:38 <cpaelzer> in that mindset I have prepared a few things

 16:38 <cpaelzer> our current backlog that we as the Team need to clear

 16:38 <cpaelzer> #link https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16CTKVQUjG78xi527_68uN4kVQ2EVYo6T7pFGouVwL_k/edit?ts=57abafba#gid=734042816

 16:38 <cpaelzer> not sure this is public

 16:38 * dpb1 looks

 16:38 <dpb1> oh goodness

 16:39 <cpaelzer> that is a new tab in the same gdoc that helped to clear the old backlog

 16:39 <cpaelzer> as painful as it is we need to clear that

 16:39 <dpb1> I opened up view access

 16:39 <cpaelzer> please each of us pick a few and get them done in the context as described on the wiki

 16:39 <cpaelzer> ok dpb1

 16:40 <cpaelzer> if that is ok there is another extension

 16:40 <cpaelzer> #link https://github.com/powersj/ubuntu-server-triage/pull/13

 16:40 <cpaelzer> that is a MP to the triaging tool we use

 16:40 <dpb1> #link https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16CTKVQUjG78xi527_68uN4kVQ2EVYo6T7pFGouVwL_k/edit?ts=57abafba#gid=734042816

 16:40 <dpb1> #link https://github.com/powersj/ubuntu-server-triage/pull/13

 16:40 <cpaelzer> if merged, it will ensure you only see "YOUR" expiring bugs

 16:40 <cpaelzer> so if today is your triage day

 16:40 <cpaelzer> then you'll see all server-next expiring 60 from today

 16:40 <cpaelzer> ...

 16:40 <cpaelzer> but if you miss to complete your duty today it won't be punted to the next member the next day

 16:41 <cpaelzer> on top the list is shorter and less discouraging

 16:41 <cpaelzer> any objections to the suggested change in tooling behaviour or how we hadnle the backlog?

 16:41 * dpb1 recommends next time cpaelzer adds an agenda item for this "open disucssion"

 16:42 <cpaelzer> agreed

 16:42 * cpaelzer begs all your pardon

 16:42 <dpb1> cpaelzer: I think it's good.  the wiki summarizes things well

 16:43 <cpaelzer> ok, lets keep track of picking from the backlog in the daily standup and sync on that next week here

 16:43 <cpaelzer> #action check progress on clearing expiration backlog (all of us)

 16:43 * meetingology check progress on clearing expiration backlog (all of us)

 16:43 <dpb1> hm

 16:43 <cpaelzer> nice that command seems to work from me - interesting

 16:43 <dpb1> can I adjust action items?

 16:43 <cpaelzer> very unexpected

 16:44 * dpb1 "fixes"

 16:44 <ahasenack> I like your QA approach :)

 16:44 <ahasenack> "this shouldn't work, let's try it"

 16:44 <dpb1> #action add agenda item for next week to check on triage progress.

 16:44 * meetingology add agenda item for next week to check on triage progress.

 16:44 <dpb1> dpb1^^^ ugh

 16:44 <dpb1> ok

 16:44 <dpb1> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:44 <cpaelzer> ahasenack: that is how you test, be mean to programs :-)

 16:44 <ahasenack> +1

 16:45 <dpb1> Next meeting Tuesday, 2017-06-27 at 1600 UTC, chair will be ahasenack

 16:45 <ahasenack> hoy

 16:45 <dpb1> #info Next meeting Tuesday, 2017-06-27 at 1600 UTC, chair will be ahasenack

 16:46 <dpb1> and that's all folks, thanks for participating

 16:46 <dpb1> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
