{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   07:00 jenda           OK
   07:00 jenda           so... what's the agneda?
   07:00 gnomefreak      lol
   07:00 jenda           a-jenda
   07:01 jenda           And where the hell is nalioth and robotgeek...
   07:01 gnomefreak      we need ideas to bring back nun and what we can do to imporove it
   07:01 gnomefreak      nalmight be sleeping/working
   07:01 lastnode        yeah i agree
   07:01 lastnode        so are we <meetup> ?
   07:01 kingspawn       Is it supposed to be done in the nun-channel? Like, advicing people that want mentoring to go in there?
   07:01 gnomefreak      lastnode: yep lets do this
   07:01 kingspawn       Or in the regular #ubuntu-channel?
   07:01 lastnode        kingspawn, in #ubuntu really
   07:01 lastnode        #ubuntu-nun is for us to coordinate
   07:01 kingspawn       Hm, okay.
   07:02 pppoe_dude      MAke an attreactive website
   07:02 lastnode        pppoe_dude, we already have a website/wiki
   07:02 jenda           why an attractive website?
   07:02 gnomefreak      kingspawn: i talked to naloith about that and he brings them into an offtoic channel either ubuntu or kubuntu but i would like a place (maybe #ubuntu-nun) due to less people
   07:02 jenda           What we need first is a mission statement.
   07:02 pppoe_dude      coz then more people will think it's user friendly, etc.
   07:02 kingspawn       gnomefreak: Yeah, me too. #ubuntu is too crowded for indepth mentoring
   07:02 kingspawn       gnomefreak: Nowadays it is more suited for oneline-answers
   07:03 kingspawn       (imho)
   07:03 gnomefreak      same with offtopic channels for me atleast
   07:03 jenda           Is the mission the creation of #ubuntu-sidechannels for more personal handling of newbies?
   07:03 jenda           and only that?
   07:03 pppoe_dude      maybe put all the standard stuff like a few forums and an irc channel
   07:03 lastnode        jenda, that's part of it, i guess
   07:03 lastnode        i dont do forums, so it'll be just irc for me
   07:03 kingspawn       I think that is a good idea, really.
   07:03 kingspawn       Conversation-style help in #ubuntu is impossible
   07:03 hybrid          lastnode: +1
   07:03 lastnode        hybrid, never been anything but a waste of time
   07:03 lastnode        at least on irc, you can kickban the flamers
   07:03 jenda           indeed, it's mostly the UBunu IRC team anyway... )
   07:04 hybrid          lastnode: i have a bad history with ubuntuforums and some of the leaders
   07:04 gnomefreak      jenda: im more of an irc users than forums. forums have a way of going wayyy too off-subject/help
   07:04 lastnode        Ubuntu-NUN should be a group of users willing to answer the same questions over, and over, and over agian
   07:04 jenda           hybrid: please. not now.
   07:04 lastnode        preferebly without too many links
   07:04 lastnode        and RTFMS
   07:04 jenda           gnomefreak: we are all.
   07:04 lastnode        as polite as we say it, sometimes we're just RTFMing
   07:04 gnomefreak      lastnode: thats what it was at one point
   07:04 lastnode        without saying the word
   07:04 hybrid          jenda: i was just stating my reason not trying to start a flamewar
   07:04 lastnode        it's like
   === jenda would cut teh forums away from the subject now.
   07:05 kermitX_        website/wiki/whatever needs a good intro/primer into IRC for these new users.
   07:05 lastnode        you have to have the patience to answer "Guys, what's a linix?"
   07:05 kingspawn       Well, sometimes a little reading will make it clearer for the questioneer, imho.
   07:05 gnomefreak      im making note to take to mez to see if we cant do something either re do the team (if people are not intersted) take them off?
   07:05 lastnode        kingspawn, yeah, there's a fine line there, that we have to be able to draw
   07:06 kingspawn       lastnode: Sure, sure, I'm all for helping. I'm actually quite helpful at times :)
   07:06 jenda           sending them off to read is usually hard for them.
   07:06 kermitX_        ;)
   07:06 lastnode        in some cases it IS useful though
   07:06 jenda           but that's not the point of the meeting, eh?
   07:06 gnomefreak      has anyone looked ar the restricted wiki lately? tell me a new users can understand that now
   07:06 lastnode        we dont want to encourage dumb users
   07:06 jenda           So, we need side-channels.
   07:06 lastnode        we want to help them grow
   07:06 jenda           What's next?
   07:06 lastnode        but at their one speed
   07:07 lastnode        jenda, we _have_ side channels
   07:07 lastnode        that was already decided
   07:07 lastnode        we didnt need a meeting for that :)
   07:07 gnomefreak      lastnode: we dont yet
   07:07 lastnode        yeah, what's next
   07:07 jenda           we do? For this specific reason?
   07:07 kingspawn       What's next is actually an efficient way of tunneling the ones that need to go there there
   07:07 kingspawn       (there there...)
   07:07 jenda           We don't - but we should.
   07:07 lastnode        jenda, i dont think we need for this specific reason
   07:07 jenda           lastnode: I'm afraid we do -that's the whole point.
   07:07 lastnode        wait, i mean #ubuntu-nun is eniugh, i reckon
   07:07 lastnode        *enough
   07:07 lastnode        there is a flipside though
   07:08 jenda           It is for coordination, not for tutoring.
   07:08 lastnode        inviting a user in to #ubuntu-whatever is good
   07:08 lastnode        as long as you can finish what you started
   07:08 lastnode        if you have to afk
   07:08 kingspawn       Can't we have something like #ubuntu-nun-coord for the coordination?
   07:08 lastnode        and no one else is around
   07:08 jenda           hmm
   07:08 kingspawn       I can't, for the sake of my sanity, do things like this in #ubuntu
   07:08 lastnode        then he/she is in the lurch
   07:08 jenda           no, we need #ubuntu-coupe
   07:08 lastnode        at least with #ubuntu, there's always someone else there
   07:08 gnomefreak      kingspawn: that will get messy for the nun memebers that dont know
   07:08 lastnode        i dont think we need a special channel to coord
   07:09 lastnode        all of us are in -offtopic
   07:09 jenda           and once that is overcrowded #ubuntu-saloon
   07:09 jenda           etc ;)
   07:09 kingspawn       gnomefreak: Well, the wiki needs to reflect the changes, I would guess
   07:09 pppoe_dude      lol
   07:09 gnomefreak      kingspawn: it will
   07:09 kingspawn       gnomefreak: If they are active, they will find out
   07:09 pppoe_dude      how about #ubuntu-beginners (for the main channel - to keep it simple)
   07:09 gnomefreak      i would like to find out who is and who is not active ont he member list
   07:09 lastnode        btw, is the IRCteam ok with this?
   07:09 jenda           pppoe_dude: +1
   07:09 gnomefreak      +1
   07:09 pppoe_dude      and #ubuntu-nun for discussions
   07:09 jenda           gnomefreak is the IRC team here.
   07:09 lastnode        in the end, keeping the peace is going to be their job
   07:09 jenda           :)
   07:10 lastnode        oh ok :)
   07:10 gnomefreak      jenda: what irc team? the ops?
   07:10 lastnode        gnomefreak, we will have teh opxors in there?
   07:10 jenda           Seveas mainly.
   07:10 lastnode        cool
   07:10 gnomefreak      lastnode: yes we will
   07:10 jenda           of course.
   07:10 lastnode        im just saying, do we need another channel to coord
   07:10 jenda           lastnode: if we don't we can abandon it later.
   07:10 lastnode        ive seen a maximum of 5 people in #ubuntu-nun anyway
   07:10 gnomefreak      jenda: ping him hes prolly working on something
   07:10 lastnode        (except now ;-))
   07:10 jenda           I just did, gnomefreak
   07:10 pppoe_dude      then setup a team to cover the channels 24/7
   07:10 jenda           :)
   07:11 kingspawn       lastnode: Heh, the idea is to increase the pressure, innit?
   07:11 lastnode        how about we do this? we _start_ inviting people in to -nun
   07:11 lastnode        i mean users
   07:11 Seveas          dragging people away from #ubuntu is not-done
   07:11 lastnode        and if we get crowded
   07:11 jenda           pppoe_dude: that should be the people who help in #ubuntu the most.
   07:11 Seveas          sending invites definitely not
   07:11 jenda           Seveas: it's not?
   07:11 Seveas          no
   === jenda stops in his tracks...
   07:11 kermitX_        specifically invite beginners to #ubuntu-beginners or whatever in the docs, user guide, wiki, etc.
   07:11 kingspawn       So all help should be given in #ubuntu?
   07:11 gnomefreak      Seveas: we are not dragging it was meant for like when me or naloith or whoever walk users through compiling
   === lastnode _did_ ask what the irc team thinks of it
   === pppoe_dude will be back in 2 minutes
   07:12 Seveas          gnomefreak, private messages are ok for that too but I see your point
   07:12 kermitX_        #ubuntu is too cluttered to have more than a 2 line conversation with someone.
   07:12 kingspawn       Yeah. I'm all up for joining a team to help out more people
   07:12 kermitX_        beginners will get frustrated with all the irrelevent chatter.
   07:12 kingspawn       But not in #ubuntu.
   07:13 kingspawn       (If text is more than one line, that is)
   07:13 gnomefreak      kermitX_: thats why most of us invite users to an -offtopic channel to walk them through
   07:13 Spec            How do you redirect beginners to #ubuntu-beginners?
   07:13 gnomefreak      Spec: you cant
   07:13 Spec            social engineering?
   07:13 dsas            gnomefreak: RestrictedFormats will be reworked a little soon (shockwave and java are planned to be put in their own wiki pages iirc)
   07:13 kingspawn       Yeah.
   07:14 gnomefreak      it would be more like <user> join me in #blah blah-blah if you want help with this more in depth
   07:14 Spec            I think people who IRC from the livecd/install should be redirected to #ubuntu-install
   07:14 pppoe_dude      Spec, in the topic
   07:14 gnomefreak      dsas: ty
   07:14 Spec            who reads the topic?
   === gnomefreak read topics
   07:14 kingspawn       Not the beginners.
   07:14 kingspawn       Heh.
   === highvoltage too
   07:14 Spec            i mean, yeah, we do
   07:14 Seveas          putting things in topic == dragging away
   07:14 Spec            but not beginners
   === hybrid reads it
   07:14 jenda           Spec: I disagree. LiveCD is too general.
   07:14 Seveas          I don't think there's a need for a separate fixed channel
   07:15 jenda           Anyway - it has always been done. Whenever you need to guide someone through, you need another channel.
   07:15 lastnode        Spec, splitting up channels means you hae to find people who are willing to spawn themselves across all of them
   07:15 Seveas          I suggest: "Join #yournickname to get in-depth help"
   07:15 Seveas          just temporary join quiet channels
   07:15 gnomefreak      i can go with that
   07:15 kermitX_        preconfigure some of the #ubuntu-xxxx channels in the irc clients in the repos?
   07:15 jenda           Seveas: that does make some sense.
   07:15 lastnode        yeah that sounds alright
   07:15 Seveas          it even makes people feel special
   07:15 lastnode        :)
   07:15 gnomefreak      ;)
   07:15 Seveas          "Hi lastnode come to #lastnode and I'll help"
   07:15 Seveas          but don't do that for all questions
   07:15 kingspawn       I've got three real life friends that use ubuntu, and they all detest #ubuntu, haha.
   07:16 lastnode        Seveas, you liar! #lastnode is teh empty!
   07:16 gnomefreak      lmao
   07:16 Seveas          lastnode, :
   07:16 Seveas          kingspawn, heh #ubuntu is quite messy at times
   07:16 lastnode        kingspawn, it's not perfect at times, but certainly one of the best channels ive seen
   07:16 Seveas          I wish I had some more time for it
   07:16 Spec            and very fast paced
   07:16 lastnode        in terms of promptness
   07:16 gnomefreak      the one thing that worried me was #ubuntu is getting very big
   07:16 Spec            only because dapper was released
   07:16 gnomefreak      new users couldnt keep up with 500 people now theres 900+ at all tiomes
   07:16 lastnode        bigger than #gentoo?
   === ompaul [n=ompaul@ubuntu/member/ompaul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   07:17 lastnode        nope
   07:17 lastnode        then again, vastly diff audiences
   07:17 Seveas          lastnode, we're pretty close to #gentoo now
   07:17 Seveas          during release we were bigger
   07:17 lastnode        Seveas, yeah, i noticed :)
   07:17 lastnode        oh right, didnt notice that
   07:17 lastnode        :)
   07:17 Spec            One thing I'd like to bring up would be standardization on us people getting information from them, there has to be a better way than pastebin/flood....
   07:18 hybrid          #gentoo is also older
   07:18 ompaul          Spec, #flood is useless
   07:18 kingspawn       Hm, so this nun-thing is going to require joining a different channel each time I help someone out?
   07:18 kingspawn       That is kind of set in stone now?
   07:18 Seveas          kingspawn, no it won't
   07:18 Spec            ompaul: #ubuntu-flood
   07:18 Spec            but still, the concept of a flood channel is silly
   07:18 kermitX_        Spec, topic="troll magnet"
   07:18 Seveas          Spec, yeah, pastebin is much better
   07:19 ompaul          Spec, flooding channels are useless, they scoll by too fast
   07:19 kingspawn       Seveas: Oh? I misunderstand, then. Heh. I thought it was /j #nameofusertohelp, and then go at it.
   07:19 lastnode        guys, i think what Seveas is tring to beat here is recursion. for example, what happens when #ubuntu-nun gets too crowded? do we spawn #ubuntu-nun-nun
   07:19 lastnode        i do see his point
   07:19 Spec            patebin is better, but it takes 10-15 minutes sometimes for a newbie to patebin
   07:19 kingspawn       patbin, hahah.
   07:19 Seveas          lastnode, indeed
   07:19 kingspawn       French pastebin
   07:19 Seveas          Spec, let them use webboard
   07:19 lastnode        hi user, please /j #ubuntu-nun-nun-nun-nn
   07:19 kermitX_        need 1.2.3. step by step instructions on pastebin.
   07:19 Spec            webboard?
   === pppoe_dude back
   07:19 Seveas          Spec, apt-get install webboard
   07:20 lastnode        SUDO
   07:20 billybennett    whats wrong with a new dialog window?
   07:20 lastnode        you missed the sudo
   === lastnode shoots Seveas
   07:20 lastnode        zomg blasphemy!
   === mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+o Seveas] by ChanServ
   === mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+b %*!*@unaffiliated/mahangu] by Seveas
   === mode/#ubuntu-meeting [-o Seveas] by ChanServ
   07:20 Seveas          HAH!
   === mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+o Seveas] by ChanServ
   === mode/#ubuntu-meeting [-b %*!*@unaffiliated/mahangu] by Seveas
   === mode/#ubuntu-meeting [-o Seveas] by ChanServ
   07:20 Spec            hehe
   07:20 lastnode        :(
   07:20 pppoe_dude      i think that the channel crowdedness issue is no problem
   07:20 lastnode        sudo!
   07:20 hybrid          lol
   === lastnode runs and hides
   07:20 pppoe_dude      because their nicknames would be highlighted
   07:20 lastnode        pppoe_dude, you havent spent much time in #ubuntu, have you?
   07:20 Spec            it scrolls real fast
   07:20 lastnode        walk away for some caffeiene
   07:20 lastnode        and voila
   07:20 pppoe_dude      lastnode, i have
   07:21 gnomefreak      pppoe_dude: it can be when trying to walk someone through something (most of us can do it but the new users eh)
   07:21 lastnode        you miss it
   07:21 kermitX_        how long does it take an irc newbie to include a nick in their messages?
   07:21 gnomefreak      ok lets start with wiki re0working everyone up with that?
   07:21 lastnode        kermitX_, esp one who doesnt know about tab completition
   07:21 pppoe_dude      kermitX_, they dont have to, but we do
   07:21 Seveas          kermitX_, weeks
   07:21 kermitX_        lastnode, took me *forever* to figure that out! ;)
   07:21 lastnode        so, are we clear then? we just spwn #Seveas and take all our users there? :)
   07:21 kingspawn       gnomefreak: I'd like to know how this is going to work first, heh.
   07:21 jenda           Well, Seveas, perhaps adding the #username policy to IRC rules?
   07:21 Spec            lastnode: it seems so
   07:21 Seveas          lastnode, eep :/
   07:21 gnomefreak      kingspawn: as in?
   07:22 lastnode        is that really policy?
   07:22 Spec            users might join #theirownnick and just wait for help though ... :-/
   07:22 Seveas          jenda, no it's not policy
   07:22 lastnode        i mean if people wanted to /j #zomgitflies, whatever
   07:22 lastnode        ?
   07:22 Seveas          jenda, it's NuN advise for NuN helpers, not IRC policy
   07:22 jenda           OK
   === jenda wants to be a nun
   07:22 pppoe_dude      how about like 3 channels to spread traffic, #ubuntu-beginner-install #ubuntu-beginner-setup and #ubuntu-beginner-general
   07:22 kingspawn       gnomefreak: Well, like if it is going to take me joining new channels every five minutes, etc.
   07:22 lastnode        jenda, we should put this on the Nun wiki page i guess
   07:22 Spec            Why not just take it to PMs though?
   07:22 jenda           lastnode: check.
   07:22 pppoe_dude      and we'd direct them from a main channel
   07:22 lastnode        pppoe_dude, scroll up, we've been through this
   07:23 gnomefreak      lastnode: if i am going to help you i would make channel #lastnode and than as you to join it for help
   07:23 jenda           Spec: so that more people can help
   07:23 lastnode        pppoe_dude, we're _not_ doing that
   07:23 pppoe_dude      lastnode, ok
   07:23 lastnode        gnomefreak, yeah cool
   07:23 Spec            jenda: join me in #jenda to continue our discussion
   07:23 Seveas          pppoe_dude, splitting off many channels is a bad idea
   07:23 Spec            jenda: no one else except you and me will be there :p
   07:23 Seveas          even #ubuntu+1 took a while to grow
   07:23 jenda           * #jenda :You can't join that many channels :(
   07:23 Seveas          jenda, haha
   07:23 lastnode        that becomes a problem if a user with nick 'yourmom' joins
   07:23 lastnode        0.o
   07:23 gnomefreak      if it comes down to it we will use nun
   07:23 hybrid          #ubuntu+1 <3
   07:24 ompaul          forget about the spread, lets think about some of our issues, some of this comes from our inability to articulate a set of questions that define users problems, and with some users while being willing to ask for help they ask in a way that is not condusive to getting a resolution
   07:24 jenda           Seveas: you're evil. I do'nt have +u because Ubuntu crashes too often :(
   07:24 lastnode        ompaul, i think we should invade iraq too!
   07:24 lastnode        :)
   07:24 jenda           ompaul: true. I blame that on nalioth not being here.
   07:24 Spec            I think if we join a #nick it'll be limiting the amount of help that new user could recieve
   07:24 jenda           :)
   07:24 Seveas          I'm on 27 channels on freenode now
   07:24 highvoltage     geepers
   07:25 ompaul          Seveas, you needed to say that on 6.6.6.6.6.6
   07:25 lastnode        Spec, this is purely for users who you _know_ you can help
   07:25 Seveas          lastnode, indeed
   === gnomefreak has seen 1 member of nun say he doesnt walk people through thier issues that pissed me off bad but im not stating anyones name on this so dont ask
   07:25 jenda           Seveas: I was on 29 before it crashed :( </OT>
   07:25 pppoe_dude      oh so the idea is to have like "teacher channels" where each helper will have his own channel?
   07:25 kingspawn       What I don't like about /j #nick is mainly two things: We must issue the same help even more often than with a sort of beginner-channel, 2) it will have me join new channels all the time, which doesn't float my boat
   07:25 kermitX_        we don't all need to open new channels to help a beginner out one-on-one. a single #ubuntu-beginners should be more than adequate..
   07:25 gnomefreak      we cant have that if your name is on mentors list or member list of nun
   07:25 lastnode        gnomefreak, if you're not stating names, why did you bring it up? it serves no purpose, and just arouses unnecessary curiosity.
   07:25 gnomefreak      lastnode: keep reading
   07:26 Seveas          kermitX_, the problem with #ubuntu-beginners is that lots of people will join it
   07:26 Seveas          nullifying the solution it gives
   07:26 lastnode        gnomefreak, still, it's better to be open about it. but i do get your point
   07:26 jenda           pppoe_dude: no... more like each student having a channel with several teachers...
   07:26 kermitX_        Seveas, then we just find a little more obsecure name for it.. #ubuntu-nun-help
   07:26 ompaul          no
   07:26 ompaul          too long
   07:26 Seveas          kermitX_, name is irrelevant
   07:26 pppoe_dude      oh ic. i think its at least better the other way around
   07:26 ompaul          and trying to get someone to click on a channel name is hard word
   07:27 ompaul          s/word/work
   07:27 pppoe_dude      although it would be limiting help
   07:27 jenda           Nah - I think the channel problem is solved.
   07:27 gnomefreak      agreed
   07:27 lastnode        kermitX_, <lastnode> guys, i think what Seveas is tring to beat here is recursion. for example, what happens when #ubuntu-nun gets too crowded? do we spawn #ubuntu-nun-nun
   07:27 kermitX_        lastnode, number them instead of nun-nun-nun-nun
   07:27 lastnode        yeah, we're through with the channel discussion? will someone update teh wiki?
   07:28 kingspawn       What became the conclusion?
   07:28 gnomefreak      thats why you make temp rooms like #lastnode
   07:28 lastnode        gnomefreak, yeah i know, i was trying to explain the reason for our decision to kermitX_
   07:28 gnomefreak      i say either make a temp channel or use an offtopic channel
   07:28 lastnode        conclusion : we create #username channels when necessary
   07:28 ompaul          lets examine a case
   07:28 lastnode        and rooms?
   07:28 lastnode        channels!
   07:29 jenda           lastnode: I'll update the wiki.
   07:29 lastnode        jenda, cool
   07:29 kermitX_        so everybody ends up with their own personal help channel. people would be able to find you again for follow up. i suppose that'll work.
   07:29 ompaul          #nun-ompaul
   07:30 gnomefreak      hmmmmmm
   07:30 ompaul          don't even go there for joking but
   07:30 gnomefreak      lol
   07:30 jenda           Wait - the channels are named after the n00b, not the mentor, nein?
   07:30 ompaul          so the problem here is that I create that, if I ask a user to go there
   07:31 gnomefreak      30 other follow thinking they are gonna get help
   07:31 jenda           gnomefreak: I doubt it.
   07:31 kermitX_        jenda, isn't rule #1 don't call the beginners 'n00b' ? ;)
   07:31 ompaul          and you end up in a row with them over the help they are giving
   07:31 gnomefreak      jenda: i would go with mentor on that that way it stays open
   07:31 jenda           Besides, the channel will have the persons nam...
   07:31 jenda           OK
   07:31 gnomefreak      kermitX_: yes ;)
   07:31 jenda           kermitX_: not in here ;) But sure.
   07:31 lastnode        kermitX_, dont call them n00b to their faces! :p
   07:31 gnomefreak      never
   07:32 jenda           never
   === jenda whistles innocently
   === lastnode gets ready for an attack
   07:32 Spec            #nun-<helper> sounds better
   07:32 kermitX_        if a room is created using the ahem, n00b's name, they may expect to find future help there...
   07:32 ompaul          there is a problem there, if we have 20 mentors and all the mentors there and they all join each others channels to help/learn then there is a failure
   07:32 ompaul          we run out of channels we can be useful in
   === Flik [n=Flik@d154-5-134-98.bchsia.telus.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   07:33 ompaul          I have an idea, its short and simple
   07:33 Spec            Maybe we should specialize
   07:33 ompaul          no
   === gnomefreak trying to cut down on some channels im in lol
   07:33 lastnode        Spec, that aint ever gonna work. im a jack of all trades, specialist in none
   07:33 jenda           gnomefreak: you'll just add one ;)
   07:33 kingspawn       For each user.
   07:33 gnomefreak      jenda: yep :) but i can handle it
   07:33 lastnode        ompaul, idea?
   07:34 jenda           I could, if gdm stopped crashing... but no solutions as yet.
   07:34 ompaul          thank you
   07:34 kingspawn       Let
   07:34 kingspawn       Eh.
   07:34 gnomefreak      jenda: we need to get up wityh naloith i think see if we cant weed out some of the un-active members
   07:34 kingspawn       Let's hear it, ompaul
   07:34 ompaul          the idea is to have channels off #ubuntu-nun #ubuntu-nun-1   2 and 3
   07:34 ompaul          we need to own them
   07:35 gnomefreak      than we can set "channels/rules for channels" stuff like that
   07:35 ompaul          yes
   07:35 ompaul          they are like surgeries
   07:35 Spec            painful and take a long time to recover from?
   07:35 ompaul          you can go into any of them once you are directed there
   07:35 ompaul          Spec, please
   === gnomefreak already tried emailing mez that failed (hes a dev iirc so i see why)
   07:35 jenda           what about #ubuntu-nun-<mentor>?
   07:35 kingspawn       ompaul: I agree one hundred percent.
   07:35 lastnode        guys, shall we let the man speak?
   07:35 gnomefreak      too long
   07:35 ompaul          jenda, no
   07:35 jenda           ok
   07:36 hybrid          jenda: i like #nun-<mentor>
   07:36 jenda           but we don't own #nun-*
   07:36 ompaul          hang on a second
   07:36 lastnode        urgh
   07:36 gnomefreak      jenda: #unu-jenda
   07:36 gnomefreak      s/unu/nun
   07:36 dsas            Mez is practically impossible to to contact in my experience. I think I read on his blog he's 1000s of emails behind.
   07:36 hybrid          jenda: we will only need to own #nun and #nun-* comes with it
   07:36 kingspawn       Anyone considered the fact that if we have channels that hold more than one mentor, it doesnt hit the user so hard if you are suddenly called away from the keyboard?
   07:37 jenda           hybrid: sure. In that case, shall we let Seveas register #nun?
   07:37 jenda           or not?
   07:37 gnomefreak      dsas: any other way you know to contact him? or should we talk to naloith on this?
   07:37 Seveas          jenda, ubuntu channels should start with #ubuntu-
   07:37 pppoe_dude      #ubuntu-beginners
   07:37 pppoe_dude      imo
   === kermitX_ thinks a couple extra #ubuntu- channels would help a bit with the volume in #ubuntu
   07:38 jenda           Seveas: taht's what I suggested...
   07:38 dsas            gnomefreak: No idea, I remember trying to contact him several times via email and never getting a reply, never saw him on IRC either.
   07:38 jenda           Umm... i think we already discussed #ubuntu-beginners.
   07:39 kermitX_        jenda, that could be our 'home base' channel...
   07:39 lastnode        defragging #ubuntu is not gonna work imho
   07:39 gnomefreak      ok why not do this  use #ubuntu-nun for helping people that will take a while (always start in #ubuntuor #ubuntu+1 if you can) and we will always have info in topic for nun members
   07:39 jenda           kermitX_: that's #ubuntu-nun
   07:39 lastnode        it's gonna send bucketloads of users in to the new chans
   07:39 gnomefreak      dsas: me neither
   07:39 lastnode        with not nearly as many support guys
   07:39 dsas            I have no idea about IRC, but can you make an IRC channel randomly forward to other channels, so upon joining #ubuntu you get sent on a round robin to #ubuntu-helpX
   07:39 kermitX_        jenda, primary support channel...
   07:39 hybrid          ubuntutor
   07:39 Seveas          dsas, no
   07:39 jenda           kermitX_: that's ubuntu. We've discussed that.
   07:39 kingspawn       dsas, Can't be done.
   07:40 ompaul          folks I want to put out a full idea, so if you let me do it in one block you will see a reasonable suggestion, and then you can think ohh that is bad because or it is good because, first off I am opposed to names because it is not in the spirit of community, second off, it leads to toooooo many channels, if there was #ubuntu-nun1 #ubuntu-nun2 #ubuntu-nun3  they are in essence a temp channel - the person goes there and gets the issue resolved
   07:40 ompaul          it is inhabitied by  several mentors, (Quality Assurance) and then the user is removed when the issue is sorted the only people left in the channel are the mentors, is that too bizarre?
   07:40 jenda           and wouldn't solve a thing.
   === gnomefreak brb needed
   07:40 ompaul          btw that could be #ubuntu1 or #ubuntu2 also
   07:40 ompaul          but they are a constant
   07:40 kingspawn       ompaul speaks with a rational voice, imho.
   07:40 kermitX_        ompaul, not to be confused with #ubuntu+1, #ubuntu+2
   07:40 kingspawn       When the help is done, they can politely be asked to go back to #ubuntu for other questions
   07:41 lastnode        kermitX_, #ubuntu+2 ?
   07:41 lastnode        :)
   07:41 kingspawn       (mind, politely)
   07:41 ompaul          kermitX_, #ubuntu-A
   === robotgeek [i=venkat@ubuntu/member/robotgeek] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   07:41 ompaul          I really don't care about the name, internalise the idea
   07:41 pppoe_dude      idea is good
   07:41 dsas            will people politely go back to #ubuntu, or will they go back to where they got help last time?
   07:41 ompaul          in saying that I do care about the name up to the point where people use their own names - we need to be able to sit there
   07:42 ompaul          dsas no invite no voice
   07:42 ompaul          sorry I forgot to suggest that
   07:42 jenda           dsas: people aren't completely dumb - whereever they go they will 1) get help 2) be sent elsewhere 3) find nothing and go to #ubuntu
   07:43 lastnode        jenda, i think all of us in here know that sometimes, people _can_ be completely dumb
   07:43 ompaul          they are invite channels nun peeps are voiced are as invited users then they loose their voice so there can be "and another thing" unless it get invited a second time
   07:43 hybrid          what about if not invited they are forwarded back to #ubuntu?
   === nalioth [n=nalioth@ubuntu/member/pdpc.bronze.nalioth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   07:43 ompaul          hybrid, messy
   07:43 kingspawn       hybrid: Difficult
   07:43 jenda           hybrid: I like that.
   07:43 jenda           kingspawn: +if #ubuntu
   07:44 dsas            Ok, I wasn't thinking of people being dumb, just that people would want to go for the quality help in a quiet channel. If the invite rule is enforced then that's not an issue anywa.
   07:44 kingspawn       jenda: Oh, haha, didn't know you could do that. Times they are a'changing
   07:44 jenda           nalioth: talking about sidechannels
   07:45 ompaul          anyway that is my idea, suggestion whatever
   07:45 nalioth         i do not want to fragment off #ubuntu.  I think that if you invite a new user to #ubuntu-offtopic or #kubuntu-offtopic, a) you 'own' the problem until you've solved it and b) there are others in those channels who may be able to contribute
   07:46 kingspawn       nalioth: Did you read ompauls idea?
   07:46 jenda           nalioth: partly agreed, but it kills those channels.
   07:46 ompaul          what I had suggested wa this
   === gruvby [i=gruvby@eyeoftruth.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   07:46 ompaul          ompaul> folks I want to put out a full idea, so if you let me do it in one block you will see a reasonable suggestion, and then you can think ohh that is bad because or it is good because, first off I am opposed to names because it is not in the spirit of community, second off, it leads to toooooo many channels, if there was #ubuntu-nun1 #ubuntu-nun2 #ubuntu-nun3  they are in essence a temp channel - the person goes there and gets the issue
   07:46 ompaul          resolved
   07:46 ompaul          <ompaul>  it is inhabitied by  several mentors, (Quality Assurance) and then the user is removed when the issue is sorted the only people left in the channel are the mentors, is that too bizarre?
   07:46 nalioth         still reading the backlog
   07:46 pppoe_dude      sorry guys but i have to leave... where can i join the mailing list?
   07:46 jenda           nalioth: we were thinking of creating special #ubuntu-nun-mentoring channels (no matter the name)
   07:46 robotgeek       is the issue with #ubuntu that too many people there?
   07:46 jenda           pppoe_dude: I'll ping you once there is one.
   07:46 nalioth         pppoe_dude: i'll get the mailing list figured out
   07:47 gnomefreak      scrolling
   07:47 pppoe_dude      jenda, ok thanks
   07:47 ompaul          robotgeek, no it is more that a new user can't cope with the amount of text
   07:47 kingspawn       robotgeek: Not exactly. The issue is that helping people with more detail than "DO THIS!" is impossible there
   07:47 pppoe_dude      bye :)
   07:47 jenda           bye
   07:47 ompaul          robotgeek, you can't carry out a conversation with them
   07:47 nalioth         robotgeek: since dapper released, at times #ubuntu is incomprehensible for new users, i'd suspect
   07:47 jenda           agreed.
   07:47 robotgeek       i am mostly not in there, i only support #kubuntu now. good to know
   07:48 nalioth         i don't necessarily agree with having -nun1 -nun2 and having our folks in the channel, since there are folks who are not nun members willing to help also
   07:48 G0SUB           nalioth: +1
   07:49 jenda           agreed
   07:49 gnomefreak      the issue if you start pulling people from #ubuntu is they will not know where to get help after a few times
   07:49 kingspawn       gnomefreak: This needs to be explained
   07:49 lastnode        defragging the main channel may lead to other problems
   07:49 lastnode        that's my main concern
   07:49 jenda           gnomefreak: i don't think so. They'll be side channels for single use (+if, IMO)
   07:50 lastnode        anyway, i have school tomo
   07:50 lastnode        going to bed
   07:50 gnomefreak      night lastnode
   07:50 lastnode        23:30 over here
   07:50 lastnode        night guys
   07:50 lastnode        let me know what goes down :p
   === lastnode stuffs a ballot a box for good measure
   07:50 jenda           night
   07:51 gnomefreak      nalioth: i would like if we can get up with the members and see who is active and who isnt (this might give us a better idea on how to pull nun back up)
   07:51 ompaul          well it was only to assist where a user is in a channel where the questions are as bewildering as they are plentiful
   07:52 jenda           Hmm... the problem is overcrowding in #ubuntu. #nick channels seem a viable solution, except they are temporary. #-nun-X channels seem a little messy (perhaps fixable with +if ubuntu)...
   07:52 nalioth         gnomefreak: this is another reason for getting the mailing list up
   07:52 jenda           #ubuntu-beginners is no solution.
   07:52 jenda           Did I sum that up right?
   07:52 hybrid          im going to make an account just for mailing list
   === ompaul thinks the conversation has just gone full circle and the wagons are now closed
   07:52 kingspawn       Heh.
   07:52 gnomefreak      ok cool i was looking for it yesterday but couldnt find it if you need help getting it up let me know
   07:52 kingspawn       I guess I've stated my take on it enough.
   07:53 jenda           thats why I tried to sum it up...
   07:53 gnomefreak      answer on that was?
   07:53 ompaul          there is none
   07:53 gnomefreak      ok
   07:53 kingspawn       How about doing a pilot project with ompauls idea?
   07:54 kingspawn       If it doesn't work out, back to the drawing boards
   === gnomefreak missed that
   07:54 ompaul          minute 45
   07:54 kermitX_        are we limiting the solution to this part strictly to IRC? or would some sort of web application that spawns one-on-one webchat sessions a viable alternative?
   07:54 Seveas          kermitX_, mugshot!
   07:54 kingspawn       kermitX_: What the...
   07:55 kingspawn       kermitX_: Have you gone raving mad? ;)
   07:55 jenda           hmm
   07:55 jenda           I think IRC is ideal for this...
   07:55 kingspawn       kermitX_: That's my way of saying "Doesn't sound good"
   07:55 Seveas          kingspawn, red hat is working on it already ;)
   07:55 gnomefreak      ok so make one channel voice all members and voice users that were invited there for help i see one issue with that
   07:55 kingspawn       Seveas: Well, we know that _they_ have gone mad haha
   07:55 Seveas          hehe
   07:55 gnomefreak      only ops can give or take voice are we gonna have 15 ops?
   07:55 Seveas          why mess with voice/ops?
   07:55 Seveas          that's just terrible
   07:56 nalioth         Seveas: +q
   07:56 nalioth         oope
   07:56 kingspawn       Seveas: To be able to get rid of them again, heh.
   07:56 gnomefreak      thats how i read ompaul idea on that
   07:56 nalioth         =1
   07:56 kingspawn       To perpetuate the idea that they shouldnt outstay their mentoring-welcome
   07:56 nalioth         ah, i need to go back to bed
   07:56 ompaul          forget the voice idea, but how do you do the you only got one ticket for help
   07:56 nalioth         you gently guide them back to #ubuntu
   07:57 kingspawn       Yeah.
   07:57 ompaul          Phone Call ! -
   07:57 kermitX_        kingspawn, Seveas: i was thinking something like a pastebin on oneside and a chat window on the other.
   07:57 kingspawn       Politely stating that this ends the session, and that #ubuntu is the place for further inquiry shouldn't be impossible
   07:57 jenda           gnomefreak: nope... I don't think so...
   07:57 kingspawn       Most people would take that alright, I think
   07:58 jenda           ompaul, in your proposition, could the channels be +if #ubuntu ?
   07:58 jenda           all we need then is the invite command at level 1 and all mentors at that level in the channels.
   07:58 kingspawn       jenda: In ircspeak, that is "you get routed to #ubuntu unless you were explicitly invited"?
   07:59 jenda           kingspawn: check
   07:59 nalioth         kingspawn: that is the point
   07:59 kingspawn       That is a nice idea.
   07:59 jenda           I think that would work perfectly
   07:59 jenda           And we could stick with one such channel and gradually expand if needed.
   08:00 kingspawn       Yes.
   08:00 sladen          I feel guility everytime I leave #ubuntu, since I frequently find there aren't many other people around and that leaving generally means dumping X number of new users into the pit again to fend for themselves
   08:00 kingspawn       I think that would be a good approach.
   08:01 gnomefreak      is that possible kingspawn ?
   08:01 nalioth         sladen: you don't stay in multiple channels?
   08:01 nalioth         how about #ubuntu-classroom   ?
   08:01 gnomefreak      to only allow invites?
   08:01 gnomefreak      nalioth: +1
   08:01 kermitX_        nalioth, works for me.
   === JanC [n=janc@lugwv/member/JanC] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   08:01 kingspawn       gnomefreak: Yeah
   08:01 nalioth         gnomefreak: that would keep folks from lurking (which may or may not be a good thing . . . )
   08:01 Spec            How does one become a NuN?
   08:02 sladen          nalioth: I generally can only cope with an hour or so at a time;  and often within that I'll have several users I've /query'ed and am following up in detail with
   08:02 nalioth         sladen: ah
   08:02 kermitX_        nalioth, better than #ubuntu-nun-habit
   08:02 gnomefreak      what happens if they dont know how to except invite  i just learned the other day :(
   08:02 nalioth         gnomefreak: good point
   08:02 kingspawn       gnomefreak: Just go like "I am going to invite you to a channel. Type /j #channel to join it"
   08:02 jenda           Spec: launchpad and read the wiki
   08:02 kingspawn       Well, that doesnt mention the name, heh.
   08:02 dsas            If you only allow invites, then is there some difficulty of recruiting new people?
   08:03 gnomefreak      kingspawn: thats them trying to join not invite right?
   08:03 nalioth         i personally don't see the need to move folks on back to #ubuntu, since the helped of today can be the helpers of tomorrow
   08:03 Seveas          #ubuntu-classroom is not a new idea but I love to see it worked out
   08:03 jenda           dsas: only stable community members should do this type of work anyway
   08:03 Seveas          actually it was #ubuntu-school, but classroom is better
   08:03 kingspawn       gnomefreak: Yeah, but you just invite them, and then say that they have been invited, type /j #whatnot to accept the invitation
   08:03 jenda           Seveas: check.
   08:04 hybrid          Seveas: #ubuntu-school "You've Been Schooled!"
   08:04 dsas            jenda: I'm just thinking it'll raise the entry barrier for people becoming community members.
   === gnomefreak right clicked link and clicked join after invting myself lol
   08:04 nalioth         if you invite someone and they don't know they've been invited, you can tell them in #ubuntu how to join and only they'll be able to join, anyway
   08:04 nalioth         dsas: there is that, also
   08:04 kingspawn       But remember that these are special cases
   08:04 kingspawn       People start helping out in #ubuntu all the time
   08:04 gnomefreak      agreed
   08:04 jenda           dsas: I don't think so. It will soon be a well known thing in #ubuntu.
   08:04 kingspawn       Some of them move to offtopic, where they get in touch with others, and maybe then get into the nun-thing
   08:05 kingspawn       They ways of irc are strange and many
   08:05 gnomefreak      always start in #ubuntu unless its a colpiling issue or code issue  (this way we can also keep offtopic for offtopic
   08:06 gnomefreak      compiling*
   08:06 Seveas          To get people enthousiastic about helping, #ubuntu-classroom may be a good idea but we have to invest a lot of time in it
   === gnomefreak will stay there most of time atleast my nick will be there
   08:06 kingspawn       The -classroom would be what we are talking about now, or something else?
   08:06 gnomefreak      if im here im here to help
   08:06 hybrid          classroom sounds like a good idea
   08:06 nalioth         i am still not sure making it invite-only is a good thing
   08:06 hybrid          AND you dont need a degree ;)
   08:07 nalioth         people outside of -nun will want to help
   08:07 gnomefreak      nalioth: im kind of debating ont hat also
   08:07 hybrid          -classroom would need to be more open, like nalioth said
   08:07 nalioth         if the folks start getting offtopic in -classroom, well, you have +q and /remove
   08:07 Seveas          nalioth, no, only you have them ;)
   08:08 kingspawn       Heh
   08:08 kingspawn       I have "Hush up now"
   08:09 gnomefreak      does locobot do factoids?
   08:09 Seveas          no
   08:09 nalioth         ok, #ubuntu-classroom is up and has admins
   08:09 Seveas          ubotu can join #ubuntu-classroom
   08:10 Seveas          I'll be running both ubotu and ubugtu soon and will ask for join-limit exceptions so they can be more useful
   08:10 gnomefreak      no you cant :(
   === gnomefreak cant get in -classroom
   08:11 nalioth         gry now, gnomefreak
   08:11 jenda           gnomefreak: try again
   08:11 nalioth         bleh, i really do need to wake up
   08:11 gnomefreak      ty
   08:11 Spec            people outside of NuN that want to help can help in #ubuntu
   08:12 Spec            people inside of NuN (QualityHelp!) have invites....
   08:12 Seveas          NuN people shouldn't see themselves as elite helpers, just hard workers
   08:12 nalioth         Spec: i don't personally turn down help anywhere
   08:13 jenda           Seveas: check. That's for sure.
   08:13 Seveas          just because someone knows some more things, he is not better than others
   08:13 jenda           THere is nothing elite about dragging newbies away and having the patience to lead them for hours, if need be.
   08:13 gnomefreak      i see what they are saying on that though with the bad advice some people are known to give
   08:13 Seveas          I've personally always ignored the "seveas is the best" or "nalioth rocks" kind of comments, they're nice to get but nothing more
   08:14 jenda           Seveas: I hardly know more things :) But I can introduce people to Linux as well as most techies out there, or better.
   08:14 nalioth         just because we are -nun members does not mean we do not give bad advice at times
   08:14 kermitX_        Seveas, i certainly don't know more than most ppl, but i have been through what the newbies have been.
   08:14 Seveas          kermitX_, we all have
   08:14 jenda           Seveas: don't boast, we all know you never get such comments.
   === Seveas was little more than a newbie 2 years ago
   08:14 Seveas          jenda, hehe
   08:14 gnomefreak      nalioth: i agree but we dont sit there and do it all the time (like setting up su)
   08:15 kermitX_        Seveas, but so many of the 'geeks' out there, they forget easily how rough it is at the beginning.
   08:15 robotgeek       i gotta run too, later folks
   === mharwood [n=matt@cpc4-lutn4-0-0-cust327.lutn.cable.ntl.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   08:15 hybrid          at the begining? its tough in the middle too
   08:15 nalioth         robotgeek: take care
   08:15 gnomefreak      later robotgeek
   08:15 kermitX_        hybrid, heard that. ;)
   08:16 dsas            kermitX_: So will you one day. Probably.
   08:16 jenda           robotgeek: later
   08:16 jenda           dsas, not within the NUN
   08:16 nalioth         ok, channel solved, is there any other business?
   08:16 gnomefreak      we happy with new channel for support?
   08:16 jenda           soo... one more channel issue:
   08:16 jenda           to +if or not to +if?
   08:17 Seveas          NOT to +if
   08:17 gnomefreak      nalioth: the mailing list but im gathering you got that
   08:17 jenda           OK, not to.
   08:17 nalioth         i really think +if is a bad idea
   08:17 gnomefreak      not to +if
   08:17 nalioth         i will look into the mailing list
   08:17 gnomefreak      ok
   08:17 hybrid          jenda: we should keep the classroom open
   08:17 hybrid          free education
   08:17 jenda           strong vote ;) and i didn't set my own opinion.
   08:17 jenda           indeed. :)
   08:17 gnomefreak      lol
   08:18 jenda           I'm a little afraid we might need to +m later. But for now, everything is OK
   08:18 jenda           Next?
   08:18 jenda           :)
   08:18 gnomefreak      what about a meeting schedule?
   08:18 jenda           two weeks is standard...
   08:18 jenda           but perhaps we should meet next week?
   08:18 jenda           to see it through the start?
   08:18 gnomefreak      jenda: every other thursday at 1700 UTC?
   08:19 nalioth         gnomefreak: i think meetings should be 'as needed'
   08:19 gnomefreak      k
   08:19 jenda           agreed. Next thursday at 17:00?
   08:19 gnomefreak      jenda: depends on the agenda i would say
   08:20 jenda           OK
   === gnomefreak thinks the mailing list and the wiki are 2 things that need att
   08:20 jenda           agreed there.
   08:20 jenda           /NewUserNetwork needs some love
   08:20 kermitX_        mailing list top priority so i don't forget meetings. ;)
   08:21 gnomefreak      lol kermitX_
   08:21 L1nx            So... Is the classroom exclusive to recieving help, or can I just listen in?
   08:21 jenda           I can write it once I get all the ideas in my head :)
   08:21 hybrid          ill look into /NewUserNetwork jenda
   08:21 jenda           L1nx: feel free, I guess.
   08:21 hybrid          or you can ;)
   08:21 kermitX_        mailing list might reduce need for official meetings?
   08:21 gnomefreak      L1nx: too hard a questionm lol
   08:21 nalioth         i will get the mailing list running (again)
   08:21 jenda           hybrid: whoever finds the time first ;)
   08:21 hybrid          jenda: sounds good
   08:21 nalioth         L1nx: you are welcome to lurk (you might even jump in and help )
   08:22 L1nx            Cool
   08:22 hybrid          L1nx: only if you are on my side though :p just kidding
   08:22 gnomefreak      just keep in mind guys this is not an alternative to #ubuntu
   08:22 nalioth         gnomefreak is correct
   08:22 gnomefreak      noraml support needs to go to #ubuntu still
   08:23 gnomefreak      or however you spell those words ;)
   08:23 gnomefreak      nalioth: go to bed your making me tired ;)
   08:23 kermitX_        L1nx, think of -classroom like ducking into a quiet corner to actually be able to carry on a conversation at a rave or something.
   08:25 kermitX_        will the NUN mailing list be for NUN "personnel" only?
   08:25 nalioth         yes, just members afaik
   08:26 nalioth         ok, channel sorted, mailing list will be looked at.  any other business?
   08:26 kermitX_        when we get done using -channel. what do we do with the "client". ask them to leave or boot 'em?
   08:27 gnomefreak      nalioth: not yet really just need to find out whos active nad whos not but we wait on mailing list for that
   08:27 kermitX_        *-classroom
   08:27 nalioth         gnomefreak: correct.
   08:28 gnomefreak      thats it there was something else on angeda but didnt want to get rid of it incase it was important
   08:28 nalioth         kermitX_: i'd recommend a gentle reminder that -classroom is for detailed help on one subject (the one you dragged the user in there for) and that #ubuntu would be more overall helpful
   08:28 hybrid          kermitX_: /kick is bad
   08:28 jenda           nice... so we have something done now.
   08:28 nalioth         kermitX_: and then ignore them heh heh
   08:28 kingspawn       Haha
   08:29 gnomefreak      ignore is worse than kick imho
   08:29 nalioth         gnomefreak: will your 'something else' wait or not?
   === kermitX_ trying to figure out his way through launchpad.
   08:29 gnomefreak      nalioth: i dont know whos it is or what its about its been there as far back as i can remember
   08:29 jenda           Ops do NOT /ignore
   08:29 jenda           right?
   08:29 gnomefreak      right
   08:30 jenda           neither should NUNs IMO
   08:30 nalioth         jenda: that is for another discussion
   === pihl [n=pihl@port134.ds1-gjp.adsl.cybercity.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   08:30 nalioth         ok. Any other business?
   08:30 gnomefreak      nope
   08:30 gnomefreak      afaik we can call it over
   08:30 jenda           OK
   08:30 nalioth         i move for meeting adjournment
   08:31 kingspawn       Alright.
   08:31 hybrid          second
   === jenda does too
   08:31 jenda           hybrid: 4th
   08:31 jenda           hybrid: 5th

</pre>
