{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== LOG ===
TZ UTC-4
<pre>
(10:01:40 AM) seele: no Desktop meeting?  or did I get the time wrong?
(10:02:04 AM) pitti: seele: should happen right now
(10:02:32 AM) Keybuk: indeed
(10:03:36 AM) Keybuk: we're just waiting for the boss
(10:03:47 AM) Keybuk: oh, wait, that's me
(10:03:50 AM) mvo: the boss-boss ?
(10:03:51 AM) mvo: aha
(10:03:59 AM) Keybuk: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2008-03-13
(10:04:10 AM) Keybuk: I didn't see any agenda items in the reports today
(10:04:28 AM) Keybuk: did I miss any?
(10:04:30 AM) kwwii: btw, I am here but I might be away shortly if my son starts puking again
(10:05:01 AM) tedg: This is precisely the reason video chat should never catch on....
(10:05:17 AM) kwwii: ;-)
(10:05:41 AM) Keybuk: nothing added to http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReportingPage this week either
(10:05:54 AM) Keybuk: (hint) :p
(10:06:42 AM) seele: if there are no agenda items can i ask a question about the Desktop Experiences Templates?
(10:06:52 AM) pitti: *shrug* didn't find anything interesting to add
(10:07:07 AM) Keybuk: seele: of course, what is your question?
(10:07:33 AM) seele: What exactly are the goals of those pages?  i.e. what kind of content goes in to them?
(10:07:43 AM) seele: when i figure heard of them, i thought it would be a collection of user research information
(10:07:58 AM) seele: but they just look like use cases (not use scenarios which are tied to user research information)
(10:08:09 AM) seele: *should* they contain more user research, or did i misunderstand their purpose?
(10:08:14 AM) Keybuk: seele: a bit of everything at the moment; we're still working out what to put in them
(10:08:26 AM) Keybuk: the person you want to talk to is mpt, he'll be owning those in a few months
(10:08:33 AM) seele: ok
(10:08:48 AM) seele: documenting user research is very important, and that would be the place to put it
(10:08:52 AM) Keybuk: indeed
(10:08:59 AM) Keybuk: feel free to start work on them if it interests you :)
(10:09:02 AM) Keybuk: any contribution is valuable
(10:09:03 AM) seele: to document user groups and profiles for each of the experiences would help all related applications to those experiences
(10:09:21 AM) seele: ok, i just didnt want to start editing pages that dont belong to me
(10:09:33 AM) Keybuk: they're on the wiki precisely so anyone can edit them :-)
(10:09:56 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:10:06 AM) Keybuk: pitti: thanks for chairing the meeting and giving out the report last week
(10:10:15 AM) pitti: you're welcome
(10:10:29 AM) pitti: btw, does http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html ever get updated automatically?
(10:10:35 AM) pitti: it looks pretty much the same like last week
(10:10:35 AM) tedg: seele: Also look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Experiences/Current
(10:10:38 AM) Keybuk: and thanks for the extensive review of that URL
(10:10:46 AM) pitti: and e. g. I untagged 131976 last week
(10:10:53 AM) Keybuk: pedro_: do you know the answer to Martin's question?
(10:11:04 AM) seele: tedg: yes, i've read the ones that exist for hardy
(10:11:15 AM) Keybuk: they were certainly touched today
(10:11:22 AM) kwwii: pitti: you went through that many bugs?
(10:11:40 AM) pitti: it's not that many
(10:11:49 AM) pedro_: pitti: AFAIK it's, will talk with ogasawara about that
(10:12:04 AM) tedg: That's actually an interesting question, the out-of-diskspace thing, does the fact that it works on reboot close the bug?
(10:12:13 AM) Keybuk: mvo: there's a few on that list that seem to be yours
(10:12:22 AM) pitti: tedg: I'd say yes; thanks for testing
(10:12:29 AM) tedg: It would be nicer if GDM handled it, but I'd say at some level it's fixed.
(10:12:34 AM) mvo: Keybuk: yeah, I attacked some already, but there are still quite a few left
(10:12:36 AM) seb128: doh
(10:12:50 AM) mvo: Keybuk: espceially the compiz one with the screensaver is difficult, I was never able to reproduce it
(10:12:51 AM) Keybuk: mvo: I mean that aren't assigned to you
(10:12:53 AM) pitti: tedg: so the 1 MB /tmp tmpfs helped? it's not necessary to have free space on ~?
(10:12:53 AM) seb128: nobody pinged me?
(10:13:02 AM) mvo: Keybuk: oh, sorry
(10:13:04 AM) Keybuk: seb128: how odd, I thought you were here :)
(10:13:08 AM) seb128: sorry for being late I was working and not looking at the clock
(10:13:15 AM) kwwii: seb128: must not be important enough ;-)
(10:13:24 AM) Keybuk: mvo: just two, actually
(10:13:36 AM) seb128: mvo: speaking about what?
(10:13:40 AM) Keybuk: if we can't replicate the bugs, they should be marked Incomplete and de-tagged
(10:13:43 AM) tedg: pitti: No, it wasn't.  I was surprised also, I was expecting to have to do a minimal terminal login.
(10:13:48 AM) ***mvo nods
(10:13:48 AM) Keybuk: especially if nobody in this team can replicate them
(10:15:00 AM) Keybuk: pitti & tedg: thanks for your work on gnome power manager so far
(10:15:02 AM) mvo: Keybuk: I think I didn't assign myself to all compiz bugs as I had kind of hoped that macslow would be able to help here
(10:15:15 AM) Keybuk: today is a *real* improvement for me
(10:15:26 AM) Keybuk: mvo: sometimes they just need a quick review, and unassign/untag
(10:15:34 AM) seb128: Keybuk: we got a new gpm uploaded?
(10:15:36 AM) mvo: ok, I will do that today
(10:15:44 AM) tedg: kwwii: I didn't follow up, are you cool with the screensaver stuff?
(10:16:24 AM) Keybuk: seb128: I'm using the one out of ted's archive I think
(10:16:28 AM) seb128: ah ok
(10:16:37 AM) Keybuk: (which will obviously need sponsoring)
(10:16:44 AM) Keybuk: and a UVF exception, I guess
(10:16:51 AM) seb128: I've that on my todo since the backlight changes on ac are one of the thing really annoying on hardy
(10:16:54 AM) ***Keybuk tries to work out whether GNOME Power Manager comes under the GNOME UVF exception :p
(10:17:10 AM) seb128: well, I'm not sure we want to change to this event based logic now and without upstream agreeing
(10:17:23 AM) seb128: but that's really a meeting thing
(10:17:29 AM) seb128: tedg: I need to speak to you about that ;-)
(10:17:38 AM) Keybuk: ah, no, I'm actually using current hardy
(10:17:44 AM) tedg: seb128: Richard has commented on the list, and he seems relatively happy with it.
(10:17:50 AM) Keybuk: I was using ted's on the other laptop
(10:17:55 AM) seb128: tedg: ah ok, I'm not on the list
(10:17:58 AM) tedg: seb128: One change to get rid of the 5% buffer I put in.
(10:17:58 AM) Keybuk: so both seem good to me
(10:18:03 AM) kwwii: tedg: I haven't taken care of it yet, as I wanted to get the normal artwork in on time :-)
(10:18:05 AM) seb128: I try to get a reply from him on the bugzilla bug for some weeks
(10:18:30 AM) kwwii: tedg: I'll look into it and see what I can screw up on my own before annoying you with questions
(10:18:44 AM) tedg: seb128: It seems you can get one reply if you post a message to the mailing list ;)
(10:18:45 AM) seb128: maybe with some luck Keybuk will fix the udev dell bug too before beta *g* ;-)
(10:18:58 AM) Keybuk: there's a dell bug?
(10:19:04 AM) seb128: not dell, iwl3945
(10:19:13 AM) Keybuk: yeah, it will be
(10:19:20 AM) Keybuk: there's several degress of hackery to fix it
(10:19:21 AM) seb128: the 30 seconds delay on boot thing
(10:19:36 AM) Keybuk: sadly some of them break other devices
(10:20:35 AM) Keybuk: ok, any other business today?
(10:21:40 AM) seb128: Keybuk: do we know who is going to fosscamp? I still didn't book
(10:21:50 AM) Keybuk: anyone who would like to go, can go
(10:21:55 AM) seb128: I mean from upstream
(10:22:02 AM) Keybuk: err, let me check
(10:22:39 AM) Keybuk: UDSIntrepid/Sponsorships on s3cr3t wiki
(10:22:55 AM) Keybuk: should have Accepted next to them if they've replied
(10:23:31 AM) seele: you know.. the date of FOSSCamp isnt on the website
(10:23:34 AM) seb128: ok, will look to that and book quickly, I don't want to get claire unhappy ;-)
(10:23:53 AM) Keybuk: seele: yes it is ...
(10:23:55 AM) Keybuk: http://www.fosscamp.org/
(10:23:59 AM) Keybuk: Fri 16th / Sat 17th May 2008 - Corinthia Towers Hotel, Prague, Czech Republic
(10:24:16 AM) seele: oh the home page
(10:24:30 AM) pitti: seb128: anything we need/should discuss wrt. session startup speed?
(10:24:40 AM) seb128: pitti: FIXIT
(10:24:48 AM) seb128: pitti: I've talked to vuntz about it
(10:24:54 AM) ***seele was looking at the other three pages
(10:24:54 AM) Keybuk: mdz spotted one
(10:25:01 AM) Keybuk: we start both gvfsd and gnome-vfs-daemon
(10:25:02 AM) ogra_cmpc: throw out all applets and autostart progs
(10:25:08 AM) seb128: the best we can do probably right now is to add a StartupDelay= to the autostart desktop
(10:25:19 AM) seb128: make gnome-session understand and apply the delay
(10:25:24 AM) seb128: remove deskbar
(10:25:26 AM) seb128: and disable tracker
(10:25:33 AM) Keybuk: what about the gnome-systems-tool evil?
(10:25:46 AM) seb128: mvo: how is nautilus-share going? ;-)
(10:25:52 AM) ogra_cmpc: couldnt the printer applet be started by hal ?
(10:26:00 AM) mvo: seb128: its fine, uploaded and ready - ftbfs because of glibc madness though
(10:26:03 AM) seb128: Keybuk: I don't get the issue there and garnacho (upstream) has no real idea of what is going on there
(10:26:23 AM) mvo: seb128: I will make the update-notifier change to run apt-check later today
(10:26:25 AM) seb128: need debugging by somebody getting the slowness
(10:26:30 AM) seb128: mvo: good
(10:26:38 AM) Keybuk: ok, I'll see what's happening there
(10:26:41 AM) seb128: anybody has an opinion about deskbar?
(10:26:47 AM) seb128: I think we should remove it
(10:26:53 AM) ***Keybuk removed deskbar from his session quite a while ago
(10:26:54 AM) seb128: we will stop tracker by TB decision
(10:26:55 AM) kwwii: remove it
(10:27:01 AM) ogra_cmpc: ++
(10:27:01 AM) seb128: it doesn't understand firefox3 bookmarks
(10:27:11 AM) seb128: and I think it' taking login speed for no real win without those
(10:28:10 AM) pitti: seb128: deskbar seems to be quite broken ATM to me
(10:28:33 AM) seb128: Keybuk: gvfs and gnome-vfs is an issue of not having the world ported to gvfs yet, not easy to fix
(10:28:37 AM) pitti: I'd rather fix it, since it's cute, but people can still enable it if they want to
(10:28:55 AM) seb128: pitti: ok, let's remove it from the default profiles and fix the issues
(10:33:52 AM) Keybuk: ok, we seem to have reached a conclusion
(10:33:53 AM) Keybuk: thanks everyone
(10:34:21 AM) pitti: thanks all
(10:34:34 AM) seb128: thanks
</pre>
