{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Add 'status' action to server init scripts =====

kirkland created <nowiki>[[InitScriptStatusActions| a wiki page]]</nowiki> to keep track of the different packages that should implement a status action in their init script. He also added a recipe explaining how to implement a status action in an init script.

ACTION: kirkland to update the init script wiki page with a list of packages that should be fixed.

===== Augeas =====

nxvl reported that the augeas package was published in the ubuntu archive. It was also accepted in Debian. The next step is to write more lenses. nxvl setup a <nowiki>[[UbuntuCentralizedServiceAdministrator/Augeas| wiki page]]</nowiki> to keep track of the lenses writing effort.

He also looked into the <nowiki>[[http://config-model.wiki.sourceforge.net/|Model:Config]]</nowiki> project. He plans to package it once Augeas is supported.

===== Encrypted ~/Private Directory in Each User's Home =====

kirkland reported that most of the MIRs had been written. He is also using an auth-client-config profile to setup the pam configuration correctly. He updated the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EncryptedPrivateDirectory#head-4a2aa7460fdca18bfe78bb1283becff406bbc13c|testing instructions]]</nowiki> and is looking for more testers.

===== Migrate new installs and upgrades of client and server packages to use SSL v3 or TLS =====

ivoks made a list of packages that need their configuration updated. He added it to the <nowiki>[[MigrateOffSSL2| wiki page]]</nowiki>.

There was some discussion about dropping support for sslv2 in the openssl package, rather than modifying each package. mathiaz suggested that it may be worth having a session about this proposal during next UDS or at least start a conversation on the ubuntu-devel mailing list.

===== Integration of SASL and Postfix =====

ivoks looked briefly into it: since postfix is jailed, giving access to the sasl daemon socket is the main issue (which is the same problem with Dovecot SASL).

ACTION: ivoks to discuss cyrus socket integration with lamont.

===== Review ServerGuide for Intrepid =====

sommer updated the samba section in the Ubuntu Server Guide. mathiaz looked into creating a bzr branch of the server guide after discussing with LaserJock about handling translations. He is still working on figuring out a simple workflow for new contributors.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, July 22nd at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <dendrobates> \o/
[16:01] <dendrobates> _/\_
[16:01] <Koon> ___ ?
[16:01] <kirkland> dendrobates: scoliosis?
[16:01] <zul> hello
[16:02] <nealmcb> ï»¿https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <dendrobates>  \o/
[16:02] <dendrobates> _/\_
[16:02] <nijaba>  /o\
[16:02] <mathiaz> nealmcb: thanks for the meeting agenda
[16:02] <nealmcb> :)
[16:02] <mathiaz> last meeting minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080708
[16:02] <mathiaz> kirkland: updated the lsb section
[16:03] <kirkland> mathiaz: i certainly did, big progress there
[16:03] <kirkland> mathiaz: actually, broke it out to its own wiki page
[16:04] <kirkland> mathiaz: just waiting on one more change to the library function to make it upstream
[16:04] <kirkland> mathiaz: could i perhaps call for volunteers from the community to help with other init scripts?
[16:04] <mathiaz> the new page to track all of this: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InitScriptStatusActions
[16:04] <kirkland> mathiaz: the changes are pretty simple
[16:04] <emgent> hello
[16:04] <kirkland> mathiaz: good patch practice
[16:04] <kirkland> mathiaz: while still being very useful functionality
[16:05] <kirkland> all: there's a recipe on the page mathiaz mentioned
[16:05] <sommer> cool
[16:05] <mathiaz> kirkland: do you have a list of other services that need to be updated ?
[16:05] <kirkland> mathiaz: I'll grab that by next week.  owh created that list for hardy some time ago
[16:06] <mathiaz> kirkland: I see only references to bugs that have already been fixed
[16:06] <nxvl> kirkland: i will, i'm a little busy this days so i have just a little time at nights for contributing, and init scripts take me just little time
[16:06] <nxvl> :D
[16:06] <kirkland> mathiaz: see the link to Onno Benshop's page
[16:06] <nxvl> but i thing a list of pendients will be really usefull
[16:06] <kirkland> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OnnoBenschop/ubuntu-server/init.d-status
[16:07] <nxvl> on a quick look
[16:07] <nxvl> i don't understand that page
[16:07] <kirkland> i'll nail down a good list
[16:07] <kirkland> by the next meeting
[16:08] <mathiaz> kirkland: awesome
[16:08] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to update the init script wiki page with a list of packages that should be fixed.
[16:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to update the init script wiki page with a list of packages that should be fixed.
[16:08] <mathiaz> nxvl: any news on the augeas front ?
[16:08] <nxvl> and i'm going on holidays the week after the next one so i will have more time
[16:08] <nxvl> mathiaz: a lot
[16:09] <nxvl> ok
[16:09] <nxvl> augeas is already on the archives
[16:09] <nxvl> it has been acepted an included already
[16:09] <nxvl> also i got it accepted on debian
[16:09] <zul> thee is a session about augeas at OLS that I will go to
[16:09] <nxvl> and it reched the archives on sunday IIRC
[16:09] <nxvl> or yesterday maybe
[16:10] <nxvl> raphink has been working on some lenses
[16:10] <mathiaz> nxvl: great - so the next step is to write more lenses
[16:10] <nealmcb> any more feedback from ebox on augeas?
[16:10] <nxvl> and he's reviewing them with lutter (the upstream PL)
[16:10] <nxvl> mathiaz: yes it is
[16:10] <nealmcb> debian too - great!
[16:10] <nxvl> nealmcb: there are still to few lenses
[16:10] <mathiaz> nxvl: great !
[16:11] <nxvl> nealmcb: i think it will better to write more of them, and then ping the eBox team again
[16:11] <nxvl> also
[16:11] <nxvl> i have been mailed about Model:Config
[16:11] <mathiaz> nxvl: could you add a point to the roadmap about augeas integration ?
[16:11] <nxvl> http://config-model.wiki.sourceforge.net/
[16:11] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://config-model.wiki.sourceforge.net/
[16:11] <nxvl> https://sourceforge.net/project/screenshots.php?group_id=155650
[16:11] <nxvl> and they said it will support augeas soon
[16:12] <nxvl> so i'm waiting for it to start palying
[16:12] <nxvl> if they made it soon, i think we can have UCSA for intrepid+1
[16:12] <nxvl> at least the first version
[16:12] <nxvl> mathiaz: doing it right now
[16:12] <mathiaz> nxvl: could config-model be integrated with augeas ?
[16:12] <mathiaz> nxvl: it seems that both would fit well
[16:13] <mathiaz> nxvl: the blue section could use augeas and its lenses
[16:13] <mathiaz> nxvl: I'm refering to the picture at http://config-model.wiki.sourceforge.net/
[16:14] <mathiaz> hm - nm - I've just noticed that augeas is being integrated in Config::Model
[16:14] <nealmcb> great minds thinking alike :)
[16:15] <mathiaz> nxvl: do you think about packaging config-model ?
[16:16] <nxvl> sorry, needed to minimize the window
[16:16]  * nxvl read the questions
[16:17] <nxvl> mathiaz: yes, they said they are planning on supporting augeas
[16:17] <nxvl> for me that's really important since augeas will let us manage the config files AND let the sysadmins edit them by hand
[16:17] <nxvl> without breaking anything
=== gnomefre1k is now known as gnomefreak
[16:18] <nxvl> i'm in contact with config-model upstream, so i'm waiting for them to support augeas and keeping an eye on it
[16:18] <nxvl> and yes
[16:18] <nxvl> i have planned on packaging it BUT after having a good amount on lenses
[16:18] <nxvl> and after it supports augeas
[16:18] <mathiaz> nxvl: waiting for support augeas may be a good thing
[16:19] <mathiaz> nxvl: I wouldn't wait for a lot of lenses
[16:19] <nxvl> yes, that's true since we can start playing with just few lenses
[16:19] <nxvl> but
[16:19] <mathiaz> nxvl: having config available would show case what can be done with augeas
[16:19] <nxvl> also i have an exchange of mails with them
[16:19] <mathiaz> nxvl: and thus trigger more interest in writing lenses
[16:20] <nxvl> and lenses will not be the only think needed, it will also need a model on config-model, which keeps the logic behind the config files managment
[16:20] <nxvl> which seems pretty fair to me
[16:20] <nxvl> since just config files managment isn't enought
[16:20] <mathiaz> nxvl: sure
[16:21] <nxvl> oh! ok
[16:21] <nxvl> i understand what you mean
[16:21] <nxvl> yes, it sounds awesome for me
[16:21] <nxvl> but still we need to wait until it support augeas
[16:21] <nxvl> which i hope will be soon
[16:22] <mathiaz> nxvl: yes - I'd suggest to wait for augeas support and then package for ubuntu
[16:22] <nxvl> ep
[16:22] <nxvl> will do
[16:22] <nxvl> :D
[16:22] <nxvl> i wil keep track of it next week
[16:22] <nxvl> since this week i'm in final exams
[16:22] <mathiaz> nxvl: great - thanks
[16:22] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:23] <nxvl> so next week with one think lees to care about i will give ucsa the time i was giving to the university
[16:23] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Encrypted ~/Private Directory in Each User's Home
[16:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  Encrypted ~/Private Directory in Each User's Home
[16:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^ ?
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: in good shape
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: MIRs nearly done
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: ie, nearly approved
[16:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: testing instructions are up-to-date ?
[16:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: did you resolve the pam stack issue ?
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: need to clean up some sprintf's in one of the the libraries, other than that, all approved
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: we're using jdstrand's auth-client-config as a temporary work around for now
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: slangasek has a comprehensive pam stack configurator in his head, he's trying to put together for intrepid
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: wiki testing instructions are most definitely up to date
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: i would very much appreciate any intrepid server users out there using/testing it!!!
[16:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - so thre is a workaround even if the pam integration doesn't make it for intrepid
[16:25] <sommer> kirkland: is there a link for the testing?
[16:25] <kirkland> sommer: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EncryptedPrivateDirectory#head-4a2aa7460fdca18bfe78bb1283becff406bbc13c
[16:25] <sommer> kirkland: thx
[16:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: hmm, there's a one liner that the sysadmin has to run, specifically:
[16:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: I plan to write a blog post on ubuntuserver asking for testing
[16:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: sudo auth-client-config -p ecryptfs_standard -t pam-auth,pam-session
[16:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: it's a one time deal
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: i think we're running into debian policy problems, with one package needing to modify another package's config files
[16:26] <mathiaz> kirkland: can't you call that from the posting ?
[16:26] <mathiaz> kirkland: *postinst*
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm under the impression that Debian Policy says no
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: libecryptfs0 package provides pam_ecryptfs.so
[16:27] <nijaba> kirkland: it is a command line, not a change to the conf
[16:27] <mathiaz> kirkland: IIRC, since it's a command you could use it
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: it needs to make two modifications, to /etc/pam.d/common-auth, and common-session to make the unwrap passphrase work correctly
[16:27] <mathiaz> kirkland: you may wanna ask slangasek about it though
[16:27] <ivoks> only if you could revert the change from pre/post-rm, right?
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: slangasek would not like it done that way
[16:27] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: it will be our fall back for intrepid
[16:28] <mathiaz> right - let's move on
[16:28] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Migrate new installs and upgrades of client and server packages to use SSL v3 or TLS
[16:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Migrate new installs and upgrades of client and server packages to use SSL v3 or TLS
[16:28] <mathiaz> ivoks: you made the list
[16:28] <ivoks> yay
[16:29] <ivoks> so, basicaly, this can be done per package or in openssl
[16:29] <mathiaz> ivoks: there are only a couple of packages
[16:29] <mathiaz> ivoks: what would be required in openssl ?
[16:29] <ivoks> if we would drop sslv2 from openssl, we would solve all problems
[16:29] <Daviey> surely except for upgrades?
[16:29] <ivoks> openssl can be compiled without SSLv2
[16:29] <ivoks> and this is the problem
[16:30] <ivoks> we cant go with openssl compile changes cause of upgrade
[16:30] <ivoks> but we can do per package configuration change on fresh install
[16:31] <ivoks> mathiaz: right, only couple of them; if you think of any other that provides SSL, please add it to the list :)
[16:31] <Daviey> sslv3 would have to conflict with sslv2?
[16:31] <ivoks> no
[16:31] <nijaba> what if I have a client that only speaks v2?
[16:31] <ivoks> most of the services provide sslv2 and sslv3
[16:31] <nijaba> I would not like to be locked out at openssl level
[16:31] <ivoks> in most of the cases, clients asks for sslv2
[16:31] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - dropping sslv2 from openssl should definitely be discussed on ubuntu-devel
[16:32] <ivoks> nijaba: then that client is very broken
[16:32] <mathiaz> ivoks: I think the path you suggest is safer and more reasonable for intrepid
[16:32] <ivoks> sslv3 is here for a decade
[16:32] <nijaba> ivoks: right, but there are a lot of very broken thing in the enterprise
[16:32] <mathiaz> ivoks: ie do it on a per-package basis
[16:32] <kees> I kind of like the idea of just dropping v2 from openssl.  It does make me cringe a little about breaking people, but it's a sure way to make sure it's off.  :P
[16:33] <mathiaz> dropping sslv2 may be worth discussing at next uds
[16:33] <ivoks> mathiaz: and i would go only with service providing packages; ie, not with clients
[16:33] <mathiaz> for the intrepid timeframe, we'd better focus the per-package approach
[16:34] <ivoks> right... in most cases, changes are trivial...
[16:34] <mathiaz> ivoks: excellent - the list of package is there.
[16:34] <ivoks> some packages will require code changes; uw-imapd
[16:34] <Brazen> What about providing two openssl packages?  One with and one without v2.
[16:34] <kees> it seems like per-package would be more accepted by Debian upstreams too
[16:34] <mathiaz> Brazen: that seems too complicated
[16:34] <Brazen> ok
[16:35] <ivoks> i'll provide patches for all packages on the list by the end of the week
[16:35] <mathiaz> ivoks: do you know which packages are easier to do ? like the one that don't require src code changes ?
[16:35] <ivoks> and then i'll examine what else we have in universe :/
[16:35] <mathiaz> ivoks: great - thanks for this work
[16:35] <ivoks> mathiaz: all packages listed on wiki need 1-2 lines in config
[16:36] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:36] <ivoks> :)
[16:36] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Integration of Dovecot SASL and Postfix
[16:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Integration of Dovecot SASL and Postfix
[16:36] <mathiaz> ivoks: have you looked into cyrus sasl integration ?
[16:36] <ivoks> i tought we decided to replace that with Cyrus SASL
[16:36] <ivoks> mathiaz: i have couple of cyrus sasl production enviroments
[16:36] <ivoks> and i think everybody who played with email servers know how to set it up
[16:37] <mathiaz> ivoks: correct - I've renamed the task to :Integration of SASL and Postfix
[16:37] <nxvl> i need to run, read you all guys!
[16:37]  * nxvl HUGS everyone
[16:37] <ivoks> only 'issue' is to package it right
[16:37] <ivoks> nxvl: bye; good work ;)
[16:37] <ivoks> since our postifx is jailed, we'll have to bind mount cyrus socket
[16:38] <ivoks> and that brings us back to the core of dovecot's sasl 'problem' :D
[16:38] <ivoks> with one exception; cyrus sasl is configured for sasl out of the box
[16:38] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - could you discuss this issue with lamont ?
[16:38] <ivoks> so, we should just bind it's socket to postfix
[16:38] <ivoks> sure
[16:39] <mathiaz> ivoks: great - thanks
[16:39] <ivoks> it was my pleasure ;)
[16:39] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ivoks to discuss cyrus socket integration with lamont
[16:39] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ivoks to discuss cyrus socket integration with lamont
[16:40] <mathiaz> that's all there is on the Last meeting minutes
[16:40] <mathiaz> let's move on to review progress made on the specification listed on the  Roadmap.
[16:40] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:41] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Track pages on help.ubuntu.com that need to be updated
[16:41] <MootBot> New Topic:  Track pages on help.ubuntu.com that need to be updated
[16:41] <mathiaz> sommer: ?
[16:41] <sommer> err, not much progress with the wiki
[16:42] <sommer> the samba sections of the serverguide are updated though :)
[16:42] <sommer> except for integrating with AD, but that's coming soon
[16:42] <mathiaz> sommer: awesome - I discussed with LaserJock about bzr branch
[16:42] <mathiaz> sommer: I haven't done more work on that front
[16:42] <mathiaz> sommer: but we don't need to keep the .po files in the bzr branch
[16:43] <sommer> mathiaz: that's cool, I briefly looked at it and didn't get too far either
[16:43] <mathiaz> sommer: we'd just had to pull them from lp when releasing a new package
[16:43] <mathiaz> sommer: I'd put that in the release process rather then working on the package itself
[16:43] <sommer> mathiaz: gotcha, seems pretty straight forward
[16:44] <mathiaz> sommer: the difference between an upstream write (just using the bzr branch to update the server guide content)
[16:44] <mathiaz> sommer: and the package maintainer that is responsible for pulling all the things together (with the translateion)
[16:45] <mathiaz> sommer: dropping the po files would make the bzr branch a few 100k
[16:45] <mathiaz> sommer: making branching super-fast
[16:45] <sommer> super fast is good
[16:46] <sommer> mathiaz: do you have time to do the packaging or are were you looking for help with that... because I'm very willing to help
[16:46] <mathiaz> sommer: I'll make more experiments about branches to see how we can organize the branches
[16:46] <sommer> mathiaz: sounds good, I'll keep at updating the content
[16:46] <mathiaz> sommer: I could figure out the packaging bits, but I'd aim at someelse to do the package maintainance
[16:47] <mathiaz> sommer: I'll work on the whole workflow
[16:47] <sommer> mathiaz: very cool, just let me know how I can help
[16:48] <mathiaz> sommer: sure
[16:49] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Boot Support for Degraded RAID
[16:49] <MootBot> New Topic:  Boot Support for Degraded RAID
[16:49] <mathiaz> kirkland: ?
[16:49] <kirkland> mathiaz: working on it at the moment
[16:49]  * nijaba hugs kirkland
[16:49] <kirkland> mathiaz: it looks relatively containable
[16:49] <kirkland> mathiaz: I'm hoping for patches this week
[16:49] <kirkland> mathiaz: hoping to have patches for review by this week, i mean
[16:50] <kirkland> mathiaz: there's been some misinformation in the bug/wiki
[16:50] <kirkland> mathiaz: I'm trying to wheedle through that
[16:50] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - great
[16:50] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:50] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] #
[16:50] <mathiaz> Open Discussion.
[16:50] <MootBot> New Topic:  #
[16:50] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion.
[16:50] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion.
[16:50] <mathiaz> anyone wants to add something ?
[16:51] <sommer> I had a question about kerberos... are we recommending heimdal for intrepid?
[16:51] <mathiaz> sommer: nope - MIT is in main
[16:51] <mathiaz> sommer: that's the version that is supported
[16:51] <mathiaz> sommer: heimdal is in universe
[16:52] <sommer> mathiaz: cool, answers that quesiton, thanks
[16:52] <sommer> that's all I had
[16:55] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:55] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:55] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place ?
[16:55]  * nealmcb will be at oscon next week
[16:56] <sommer> this time works for me :)
[16:57]  * nijaba at oscon too
[16:57] <mathiaz> all right - so same place, same time, next week
[16:57] <lukehasnoname> who wants to compensate me for hours lost at work and fly me to Oregon?
[16:57] <nealmcb> nijaba: see you there :)
[16:57] <nealmcb> lukehasnoname: where do you live?
[16:58] <lukehasnoname> TX
[16:58] <Brazen> ooh, drive up to Wichita, KS and we can carpool :D
[16:58] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
