{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** mathiaz to fix the "server fixed bugs" broken script
** ttx to confirm with jib lucid SRU resource allocation
* <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-ReleaseStatus|Release status]]</nowiki> (ttx)
** Known Issues (release notes)
** Targets for early SRUs
** Remaining work items
* UEC release status (kirkland)
* EC2 release status (smoser)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
** Release status
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** Release status
** Ext4 performance regressions addressed?
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Final call for blueprints for UDS Maverick
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** New proposed meeting time starting the Maverick cycle: Tuesday 6 pm UTC

=== Minutes ===

==== Actions ====

# hggdh, zul to get their release note/early SRU bugs known to ttx
# ALL to mark DONE or POSTPONED the remaining work items for 10.04 by Thu 29 April EOD
# hggdh to outline testing bottlenecks for UEC testing UDS sessions

==== Key Points ====

Key resolutions or discussions are highlighted in the full log below by a leading ''-->''

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, May 4th at 18:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[15:00] <kirkland> o/
[15:01] <jiboumans> morning folks
[15:01] <jiboumans> #startmeeting
[15:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 09:01. The chair is jiboumans.
[15:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[15:01] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[15:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[15:01] <jiboumans> mathiaz to fix the "server fixed bugs" broken script
[15:01] <mathiaz> jiboumans: not done
[15:02] <jiboumans> mathiaz: when can we expect it to be tackled?
[15:02] <mathiaz> jiboumans: this week - now that release is out of the door
[15:02] <jiboumans> mathiaz: ack
[15:02] <jiboumans> ttx to confirm with jib lucid SRU resource allocation
[15:02] <ttx> jiboumans: I mentioned it to you
[15:02] <mathiaz> jiboumans: I should have some more time to look around these lower important todos
[15:02] <ttx> jiboumans: not sure that confirms it yet
[15:03] <jiboumans> ttx: i believe we have a UDS session on this, no?
[15:03] <ttx> jiboumans: yes
[15:03] <jiboumans> mathiaz: it happens, improvement point for next time :)
[15:03] <ttx> "Lucid SRU process review"
[15:03] <jiboumans> ttx: excellent, consider it done then
[15:03] <jiboumans> now, this meeting will focus on the releaes and UDS instead of the usual topics, so bear with us please
[15:04] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Release status (ttx)
--> [15:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Release status (ttx)
[15:04] <jiboumans> how's the war room looking ttx?
[15:04] <ttx> yay
[15:04] <ttx> DefCon 3 so far
--> [15:04] <ttx> No respin expected
[15:04] <mathiaz> ttx: what does that mean?
[15:04] <mathiaz> ttx: level 3?
[15:04] <ttx> nobody running in circles
[15:04] <nealmcb> :)
[15:04] <jiboumans> mathiaz: you're woefully underprepared for an invasion of your borders sir
[15:05] <zul> drinking yet?
[15:05] <ttx> DefCon 2 would be "pilots scramble to their aircrafs
[15:05] <mathiaz> jiboumans: totally - where I live there isn'
[15:05] <ttx> and DefCon 1 would be permission to engage
[15:05] <mathiaz> jiboumans: totally - where I live there isn't any point in getting prepare for an invasion
[15:05] <zul> release lucid....drunk fix later..
[15:05] <ttx> the absinthe bottle is still full
[15:05]  * hggdh meanwhile drinks a marvelous Brazilan coffee
[15:05] <jiboumans> ttx: any known issues come up that will be release noted or SRU'd early?
[15:06]  * zul hands mathiaz a book about the war of 1812
[15:06] <Daviey> I understand it's tradition for the server boss to buy drinks at UDS for the entire ~ubuntu-server team.. so it's not all bad, eh jiboumans ?
[15:06] <ttx> yes
[15:06] <jiboumans> Daviey: i must have not gotten that memo
[15:06] <ttx> I updated https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[15:06] <mathiaz> jiboumans: you'll get - don't worry
[15:06] <ttx> ah
[15:06] <ttx> I mean https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus
[15:07] <jiboumans> ttx++ excellent
[15:07] <ttx> We have 4 things ion the release note list
[15:07] <ttx> 4 early targets for SRU
[15:07] <ttx> If you see anything missing, please shout
[15:07] <ttx> (now)
[15:07] <hggdh> ttx, may I propose bug 567592 also?
[15:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 567592 in plymouth "rm: cannot remove `/var/lib/urandom/random-seed': Read-only file system" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/567592
[15:07] <jiboumans> for the logs:
[15:07] <jiboumans> 423252 (breaks NSS using LDAP+SSL on upgrades from Hardy)
[15:07] <jiboumans> 571057 (breaks OpenLDAP configs on upgrades from Lucid dev milestones)
[15:07] <jiboumans> 570805 (regression in Ubuntu Server installation times on ext4)
[15:07] <jiboumans> 557429 (potential breakage in a scenario with degraded RAID arrays being assembled)
[15:07] <zul> ttx: i know at least one other php one
[15:08] <ttx> hggdh: for release noting ?
[15:08] <mathiaz> bug 423252 <- that won't be SRUable in the short time
[15:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 423252 in sudo "NSS using LDAP+SSL breaks setuid applications like su and sudo" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/423252
[15:08] <hggdh> ttx: for SRU-ing
[15:08] <mathiaz> as there isn't a confirmed fix
[15:08] <hggdh> early
[15:08] <jiboumans> hang on, those were the release note bugs
[15:08] <ttx> mathiaz: right that's why it's on the "under investigation" list
--> [15:08] <jiboumans> these are the SRUable bugs:
--> [15:09] <jiboumans> eucalyptus: 567371,565101 (kirkland)
--> [15:09] <jiboumans> tomcat6: 563642 (ttx)
--> [15:09] <jiboumans> php5: 541439 (zul)
--> [15:09] <jiboumans> vmbuilder: 536942,386463,493020,497258,517067,535397,536940,539727,540446,524020 (soren)
[15:09] <zul> heh soren has some work to do
[15:09] <ttx> yes, volcano smoke prevented him to fix those in time
--> [15:09] <kirkland> jiboumans: i'm prepping a eucalyptus upload right now that addresses 566793, 567371, 565101
[15:09] <ttx> hggdh: ok, I'll look into it
[15:10] <ttx> kirkland: i'll add the missing bugreference, thanks for the pointer
[15:10] <jiboumans> [ACTION] hggdh, zul to get their release note/early SRU bugs known to ttx
[15:10] <MootBot> ACTION received:  hggdh, zul to get their release note/early SRU bugs known to ttx
[15:10] <jiboumans> ttx: any other news from the war room?
[15:10] <zul> ttx: what about the crypt lvm bug?
[15:10] <ttx> zul: the repeated prompt ?
[15:10] <zul> yeah shouldnt that be in the release notes as well?
[15:10] <ttx> zul: I don't think so
[15:11] <Daviey> Is soren going to be able to manage the *long* list of early SRU's?
[15:11] <ttx> it sucks but it's hardly blocking anything
[15:11] <zul> ttx: ack
[15:11] <ttx> Daviey: patches welcome, as usual
[15:11] <ttx> nothing else from the war room
--> [15:11] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] UEC release status (kirkland)
[15:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  UEC release status (kirkland)
[15:11] <jiboumans> thanks ttx
[15:11] <kirkland> jiboumans: check
--> [15:12] <kirkland> jiboumans: no release critical issues
[15:12] <ttx> just remember to mark DONE or POSTPONED the remaining work items for 10.04
[15:12] <ttx> by tomorrow eod :)
[15:12] <jiboumans> [ACTION] ALL to mark DONE or POSTPONED the remaining work items for 10.04 by Thu 29 April EOD
[15:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ALL to mark DONE or POSTPONED the remaining work items for 10.04 by Thu 29 April EOD
[15:13] <jiboumans> kirkland: the upload you're doing will be a zero day SRU then?
[15:13] <kirkland> jiboumans: i have uploaded now
=== yofel is now known as yofel_
[15:13] <kirkland> jiboumans: it will be in lucid-proposed as soon as the ubuntu-sru team accepts it
[15:13] <kirkland> jiboumans: normally, it's supposed to bake in -proposed for ~1 week
[15:13] <jiboumans> kirkland: right, but too late for any ISOs of course
[15:13] <jiboumans> understood
=== yofel_ is now known as yofel__
[15:14] <kirkland> jiboumans: yes, these won't be on the 10.04 iso (but will be on 10.04.1)
[15:14] <jiboumans> kirkland: does it address all the open bugs we'd hope to have fixed real soon around release, or do we have any open ones left?
=== yofel__ is now known as yofel
[15:14] <kirkland> jiboumans: we could ask for a rush processing of the 1 week bake, since we've been testing it for nearly a week already now
[15:14] <ttx> jiboumans: those are mostly bugs you encounter running over a period of time (not installer issues) so updating is ok
[15:14] <kirkland> jiboumans: these are mostly scalability one
[15:14] <kirkland> jiboumans: i suspect as soon as people actually start deploying 10.04 UEC, we'll get some new, hard ones
[15:15] <jiboumans> kirkland: i'm sure
[15:15] <kirkland> jiboumans: i think ttx had a few more he wanted looked at
[15:15] <ttx> yes, the securitygroup thing I haven't had time to reproduce
[15:15] <kirkland> jiboumans: and smoser still has some upstarty/plymouth-ish issues, ISTR
[15:15] <jiboumans> kirkland: for ec2, surely. we'll cover that next
[15:15] <ttx> yes our images are still pretty brittle when run over UEC
[15:16] <jiboumans> then let's cover that next
--> [15:16] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] EC2 release status (smoser)
[15:16] <smoser> not brittle
[15:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  EC2 release status (smoser)
[15:16] <jiboumans> thanks kirkland, tt
[15:16] <jiboumans> *ttx
--> [15:16] <smoser> in most cases things are fine. under high heavy load on UEC the metadata service doesn't come up for minutes.
[15:16] <smoser> the images don't wait long enough
[15:16] <smoser> so yes, maybe brittle
[15:17] <jiboumans> ttx: i trust that is noted somewhere?
[15:17] <ttx> I meant the "can't be contacted by ssh" thing
[15:17] <ttx> jiboumans: it's difficult to releasenote it since we have trouble to understand when it hits
[15:17] <smoser> hold on. getting bugs.
[15:17] <ttx> "UEC image may fail to boot on UEC" isn't a good releasenote text
[15:17] <smoser> bug 565018
[15:17] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 565018 in cloud-init "instance is not reachable via ssh" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/565018
[15:18] <smoser> bug 566792
[15:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 566792 in eucalyptus "UEC guests sometimes fail on consuming user data (metadata service isn't ready)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/566792
[15:18] <ttx> the second one is under load, right
[15:18] <smoser> i hope to address 566792 sometime very soon after release, or at least part of it.
[15:19] <ttx> but the first one can be hit on a single try, if you're unlucky
[15:19] <smoser> the first bug (instance not reachable via ssh), i have no good explanations under what conditions it fails
[15:19] <smoser> it seems timing related.
[15:19] <hggdh> 566792 seems to happen more when CLC, Walrus, and CC are on differetn machines
[15:19] <smoser> Hmm..
[15:20] <smoser> i guess there should be a third bug. i will open one.
[15:20] <smoser> the 'meta data service comes up slowly' portion of bug 566792 is easily workaroundable in image
[15:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 566792 in eucalyptus "UEC guests sometimes fail on consuming user data (metadata service isn't ready)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/566792
[15:20] <smoser> but your boots will just take 3 minutes
[15:21] <jiboumans> beats not booting at all
[15:21] <smoser> the "meta data service returned empty data an http status 200" is not so easily workaroundable.
[15:21] <smoser> that is much harder to reproduce.
[15:21] <smoser> opening bug now.
--> [15:21] <jiboumans> smoser: any issues with the images themselves?
[15:21] <smoser> well, no. :)
--> [15:22] <smoser> not after they're booted
[15:22] <jiboumans> smoser++ excellent
[15:22] <hggdh> er
[15:22] <ttx> jiboumans: they run relatively fine on EC2
[15:22] <hggdh> there is bug 567592, hitting plymouth, and may be germane here
[15:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 567592 in plymouth "rm: cannot remove `/var/lib/urandom/random-seed': Read-only file system" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/567592
[15:22] <jiboumans> ttx: when you say 'relatively' i expect you can tell me when they don't?
[15:22] <smoser> very good on ec2.
[15:22] <ttx> We could have a generic "UEC image may fail to boot on UEC" release note pointing to the bugs still in progress
[15:23] <ttx> jiboumans: I meant "comparatively"
[15:23] <smoser> hggdh, how often do you see that bug ?
[15:23] <hggdh> smoser: every boot I have the console log I see it. I think this may play a role
[15:24] <smoser> "have the console log" ?
[15:24] <hggdh> not the cannot remove, but the ral cause -- plymouth barfs when trying to write to a pts
[15:24] <nealmcb>  
[15:24] <hggdh> smoser: the failed instances
[15:24]  * nealmcb oops
[15:24] <smoser> i dont think thats true.
[15:25] <smoser> you're saying every time you can't reach an instance it has that in it.
[15:25] <smoser> ?
[15:25] <hggdh> I am saying every UEC image boot has it -- plymouth dies with a SIGSEGV
[15:25] <hggdh> and this may cause problems for mountall, and cascade
[15:26] <smoser> correct.
[15:26] <smoser> but not every instance fails in that bug (read only filesystem)
[15:26] <hggdh> indeed, no. But the read-only is (as Collin found) a *possible* consequence, not the cause
[15:27] <smoser> ok.
[15:27] <smoser> i wasn't read-up-to-date on that
[15:27] <hggdh> this is why I would really like to have a new UEC image with Collin's fixes, to test it again
[15:27] <ttx> hggdh: we have a fix for that already ?
[15:28] <hggdh> cjwatson just proposed fixes for it, this morning
[15:29] <ttx> right, we expect to roll Lucid UEC images regularly, so we could have an updated image with the fix quite fast if that fixes it
[15:29] <ttx> there are a few other boot-related fixes in the queue
[15:30] <jiboumans> ok, thanks for that
[15:30] <jiboumans> moving on
[15:30] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
--> [15:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
--> [15:30] <jiboumans> my question: release status? :)
--> [15:30] <hggdh> jiboumans: seems as ready as possible, with the given exceptions (bugs) above
[15:31] <zul> jiboumans: not paniacing
[15:31] <jiboumans> hggdh: that's great news
[15:31]  * jiboumans attaches the head back to his chicken
[15:31] <smoser> bug 571271 opened for "simple timeout issue"
[15:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 571271 in cloud-init "uec images should wait longer for metadata service" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/571271
[15:31] <hggdh> another point
[15:32] <hggdh> I am adding a blueprint (joint QA/Server) for UEC testing. Even with mathiaz scripts (and bless him!), it is extremely costly in time to run the test
[15:33] <hggdh> even more with the dpkg/fsync currently in place :-(
[15:33] <jiboumans> hggdh: engineering or machine time?
[15:33] <hggdh> both of them
[15:33] <hggdh> a re-setup usually takes some two hours, and each stress about another 2 hours
[15:34] <jiboumans> that's costly indeed
[15:34] <jiboumans> let's take some time at UDS to see how we can improve that timewise. if it takes extra hardware, we can probably arrange that too
[15:35] <hggdh> thank you. I will add the blueprint in a few
[15:35] <jiboumans> [ACTION] hggdh to outline testing bottlenecks for UEC testing UDS sessions
[15:35] <MootBot> ACTION received:  hggdh to outline testing bottlenecks for UEC testing UDS sessions
[15:35] <jiboumans> hggdh: any ohter updates from the QA team?
[15:35] <hggdh> no, life is good now ;-)
[15:35] <jiboumans> any questions for hggdh?
[15:36] <jiboumans> i'll take that as a no
[15:36] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
--> [15:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[15:36] <jiboumans> hggdh: thank you
[15:36] <jjohansen> hi
[15:36] <jiboumans> hi there
--> [15:36] <jiboumans> my question is unchanged: release status? :)
=== Claudinux_ is now known as Claudinux
[15:37] <jjohansen> heh, well unfortunately not really changed since last week
--> [15:37] <jjohansen> the kernel has been frozen and only a couple critical changes have been applied
--> [15:38] <jjohansen> everything is being queued for SRU
[15:38] <jiboumans> any of those changes or SRU affecting server issues?
[15:38] <jjohansen> no
[15:38] <jiboumans> jjohansen: ok, thanks
[15:39] <jiboumans> i had one specific question about the ext4 performance degrade we saw in benchmarks
[15:39] <jjohansen> okay
[15:39] <jiboumans> this is a public one of those:   http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_lts_perf&num=2
[15:39] <jiboumans> it's a few weeks old though; have we managed to do anything with/about that ?
[15:40] <jjohansen> hrmm, I actually haven't seen anything about that pass by but give me a sec to check with csurbi
[15:41] <jjohansen> if I recall correctly this particular test wasn't really hitting the disk but I wasn't the one looking into it
[15:42] <jjohansen> jiboumans: I will have to get back to you on specifics as csurbi isn't around atm
[15:42] <jiboumans> jjohansen: no problem. could you coordinate with ttx to see if we should release note anything?
[15:42] <jjohansen> will do
[15:42] <jiboumans> thank you
[15:43] <jiboumans> any other questions or updates for the kernel?
[15:43] <jjohansen> one other little thing, it looks like trying to go pv-ops for EC2 will be a target for M
[15:43] <zul> cool...good luck! ;)
[15:44] <jiboumans> jjohansen: nice to hear
[15:44] <jiboumans> alright, moving on
[15:44] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (mathiaz)
--> [15:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (mathiaz)
[15:44] <jiboumans> i expect very little, but best to check :)
--> [15:45] <mathiaz> no bugs nominated for any release
[15:45] <mathiaz> anything worth SRU in the last week?
--> [15:45] <mathiaz> and next week I'll add lucid to the list
--> [15:45] <mathiaz> so expect a longer SRU review as we go through the lucid nominations
[15:45] <zul> nope
[15:46] <mathiaz> it may require more than one meeting though
[15:46]  * jiboumans renames this the SRU meeting
[15:46] <jiboumans> mathiaz: understood and thanks
[15:46] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Final call for blueprints for UDS Maverick
--> [15:46] <MootBot> New Topic:  Final call for blueprints for UDS Maverick
[15:47] <jiboumans> Starting monday, we'll do the planning for the sessions of UDS maverick
--> [15:47] <jiboumans> if you'd like to have a guaranteed session slot, please make sure your blueprint is created by this Friday end of business
--> [15:48] <jiboumans> Please also take a look here for currently proposed sessions at UDS: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/MaverickIdeaPool
--> [15:48] <jiboumans> if you have any ideas, no matter how experimental, feel free to add those to the above wiki page as well
[15:49] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[15:49] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[15:49] <jiboumans> please, go ahead :)
[15:50] <jiboumans> alright, moving on
[15:50] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] New meeting time for the Maverick cycle
--> [15:50] <MootBot> New Topic:  New meeting time for the Maverick cycle
[15:51]  * hggdh really pays attention now
[15:51] <jiboumans> *drum roll*
[15:51] <ttx> let's all act surprised !
[15:51] <RoAkSoAx> lol
--> [15:51] <jiboumans> Given that release days/freezes are on Thursday, we'd like to move the meeting to Tuesday 6 pm UTC
[15:51] <hggdh> YES!
[15:51] <jiboumans> this aligns better with west coast attendance (hi jjohansen)
[15:52] <hggdh> (sorry, ttx)
[15:52] <ttx> 1800 UTC, you mean
[15:52] <jiboumans> and is one of the few slots left on the Tuesday meeting schedule
[15:52] <jjohansen> yes it does
[15:52] <jjohansen> :)
[15:52] <jiboumans> ttx: if it makes you feel better
[15:52] <jiboumans> all those opposed say 'nay'
[15:52] <ttx> that makes me feel more accurate :P
[15:52] <jiboumans> no objections, the new meeting time stands
[15:53] <jiboumans> \o/
[15:53]  * hggdh agrees with ttx
[15:53] <Daviey> (if it's changed, the date on the ubuntu fridge cal needs updating)
[15:53] <hggdh> oh, no early mornings...
[15:53] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[15:53] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[15:53] <jiboumans> kirkland, ttx and myself will be at a company meeting next week, and UDS is the week after
[15:53] <mathiaz> I can run the meeting next Tuesday
[15:53] <jiboumans> is there mileage in a meeting next week, or shall we postpone till after UDS?
[15:54] <jiboumans> mathiaz: thanks for the offer. worth it for you to go through SRUs etc?
[15:54] <ttx> hggdh: oh, meetings after dinner
[15:54] <mathiaz> jiboumans: yes
[15:54] <jiboumans> ok, then
[15:54] <soren> jiboumans: Will you? Even with the new meeting time?
[15:54] <mathiaz> even if it lasts just 10 minutes
[15:54] <jiboumans> soren: i will always. not sure what i will, but i will
[15:55] <jiboumans> mathiaz: excellent
--> [15:55] <jiboumans> next meeting time is Tuesday May 4th at 1800 UTC
[15:55] <soren> jiboumans: Be at the company meeting at the time of the meeting.
[15:55] <jiboumans> soren: technically, i'll be in a plane over the atlantic
[15:55] <soren> Maybe my intel is wrong :)
[15:55] <ttx> soren: your intel is wrong
[15:55] <jiboumans> thanks for highlighting that crucial distinction :)
[15:55] <jiboumans> alright all, thanks for attending
[15:55] <jiboumans> #endmeeting
[15:55] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 09:55.
[15:56] <nealmcb> sounds like mileage in that meeting to me :)
[15:56] <Daviey> jiboumans: New meeting time is long term?
[15:56] <mathiaz> Daviey: yes :)
[15:56] <Daviey> okay, thanks
[15:56]  * Daviey prods the firdge people
[15:56] <Daviey> fridge*
[15:57] <jiboumans> Daviey: thank you
</pre>
