{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Check blueprint status and progress for the week
* Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs: http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki>
* Open Discussion
* Agree on next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

Most of the assignee were not attending the meeting.

ACTION: jib to talk to robbiew about ecryptfs in ubuntu

===== Check blueprint status and progress for the week =====

* server-lucid-eucalyptus-karmic-retrospective: on track
* server-lucid-eucalyptus-merging-and-packaging: on track
* server-lucid-seeds: on track
   mathiaz is preparing the final list of packages and will ask for feedback on the remaining items.
* server-lucid-euca-remote-autoregister: 50% done, slightly slowed down by 1.6.2 integration work, on track
* server-lucid-uec-testing: on track, even though the completion rate is low.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====

ttx brought <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/499785|bug 499785 - nic-usb-modules should include asix]]</nowiki> to the attention of the kernel team as it is needed to help test UEC in laptops environments.

mathiaz mentioned he had asked the kernel team for feedback on dropping the kernel-package package to universe.

===== Blueprints for post alpha2 =====

Once alpha2 is out, the server team will look at the next set of blueprints to be implemented. Some of them still need more discussion which will happen during the next meeting on January 6th.

The following blueprints will be reviewed:

* UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-aws-client-libraries (mathiaz)
* UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-asterisk-integration (dyfet, Daviey)
* UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-cluster-stack (RoakSoax, ivoks)
* UbuntuSpec:lucid-serverguide (sommer)
* UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-contextualization (stgraber)
* UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-papercuts (ttx)

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, January 6th at 14:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[14:02] <ttx> #startmeeting
[14:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:02. The chair is ttx.
[14:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:02] <ttx> yay Mootbot
[14:02] <ttx> Agenda @ https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[14:03] <ttx> We won't review the ACTIONs from last meeting since all actionmen are away
[14:03] <ttx> [TOPIC] Check blueprint status and progress for the week
[14:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Check blueprint status and progress for the week
[14:03] <ttx> we'll just review the ones assigned to people that are around...
[14:04] <ttx> server-lucid-eucalyptus-karmic-retrospective
[14:04] <ttx>  	75% done, on track
[14:04] <ttx> server-lucid-eucalyptus-merging-and-packaging
[14:04] <ttx> 79% done, on track
[14:04] <ttx> server-lucid-seeds
[14:05] <ttx> mathiaz ^
[14:05] <mathiaz> ttx: where is the burndown chart? (ie the url where you get the list of bp)
[14:05] <mathiaz> ttx: I've reviewed the feedback
[14:05] <ttx> http://piware.de/workitems/server/lucid-alpha2/report.html
[14:05] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://piware.de/workitems/server/lucid-alpha2/report.html
[14:05] <mathiaz> ttx: and identified items that need more discussion - I plan to send a specific email for each of them after the vacation
[14:06] <mathiaz> ttx: to maximise the feedback we can get
[14:06] <ttx> ok, still on track ?
[14:06] <mathiaz> ttx: yes
[14:06] <ttx> server-lucid-euca-remote-autoregister (ttx)
[14:06] <ttx> 50% done, slightly slowed down by 1.6.2 integration work, on track
[14:06] <ttx> server-lucid-uec-testing (mathiaz)
[14:06] <mathiaz> ttx: still working on it
[14:07] <mathiaz> ttx: I'm refining some of the WI while doing the testing as well
[14:07] <ttx> mathiaz: The 19% completion rate is slightly alarming
[14:07] <mathiaz> ttx: that's why the WI haven't been finished
[14:07] <mathiaz> ttx: right - most of them are actually workinprogress
[14:07] <mathiaz> ttx: and they will be knocked down at the same time
[14:07] <ttx> ok, so you're confident you can still make alpha2 with this ?
[14:08] <mathiaz> ttx: yes
[14:08] <ttx> ok, the other specs are assigned to absent people
[14:08] <ttx> so we'll skip them
[14:08] <ttx> [TOPIC] Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[14:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[14:08] <ttx> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:09] <ttx> nothing to do... Same remarks as last week.
[14:09] <ttx> Skipping "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren)" since soren is away
[14:09] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:09] <ttx> jjohansen: howdy
[14:09] <jjohansen> hey
[14:10] <ttx> jjohansen: anything specific for us on this holiday season ?
[14:10] <jjohansen> no, nothing I can think of.
[14:10] <mathiaz> jjohansen: I send an email to the kernel-team with regard to the kernel-package
[14:10] <ttx> jjohansen: I'll bring your attention to bug 499785
[14:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 499785 in linux "nic-usb-modules should include asix" [Wishlist,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/499785
[14:10] <mathiaz> jjohansen: it's in main and we're looking into dropping into universe
[14:11] <ttx> We'll need that support to test on our UEC/laptops env
[14:11] <mathiaz> jjohansen: IIRC tim already replied
[14:11] <jjohansen> ah, I hadn't seen it yet
[14:11] <ttx> jjohansen: can you make sure that this bug gets attention ?
[14:11] <jjohansen> yes
[14:12] <ttx> jjohansen: cool, thx
[14:12] <mathiaz> jjohansen: Subject: Re: kernel-package compatible with Ubuntu kernels?
[14:12]  * nealmcb wakes up and looks around at the server team
[14:12] <ttx> nealmcb: o/
[14:12] <mathiaz> jjohansen: I think we'll move the package to universe
[14:12] <mathiaz> that's all from me
[14:13] <ttx> ok, let's move on then :)
[14:13] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
[14:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
[14:13] <mathiaz> bug 128612
[14:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 128612 in samba "Segfault in Samba installing a printer on a client" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/128612
[14:13] <mathiaz> ^^ is the only nomination in the queue
[14:13] <mathiaz> for dapper
[14:13] <ttx> this one is a recent statusfix
[14:14] <ttx> it's been fixed forever... doesn't mean the nomination isn't valid, just taht it was nominated 2 years ago
[14:14] <mathiaz> ok - declining then
[14:14] <ttx> yes
[14:14] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:14] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:15] <mathiaz> there is bug 489418
[14:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 489418 in krb5 "Strange behavior of libkrb5 since karmic ..." [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/489418
[14:15] <ttx> Importance:Undecided ?
[14:15]  * ttx only looks at High :)
[14:16] <mathiaz> ttx: agreed
[14:16] <ttx> mathiaz: sounds like a good candidate
[14:16] <ttx> well, I also look at Medium
[14:16] <ttx> and Critical.
[14:17] <mathiaz> ttx: well the bug is already open for karmic
[14:17] <mathiaz> ttx: I'll set to high
[14:17] <ttx> ok.
[14:17] <ttx> the rest is not relevant imho
[14:18] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:18] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:18] <mathiaz> I need to refine the information on this list
[14:18] <mathiaz> it's not very usefull as of now
[14:19] <mathiaz> that's all for the SRU review
[14:19] <ttx> ok, thx
[14:19] <ttx> [TOPIC] January 6 meeting
[14:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  January 6 meeting
[14:19] <ttx> So the first meeting in January will have a heavy agenda
[14:20] <ttx> We want to discuss some specs that were not targeted to alpha2, specifically:
[14:20] <ttx> server-lucid-aws-client-libraries (mathiaz)
[14:20] <ttx> server-lucid-asterisk-integration (dyfet, Daviey)
[14:20] <ttx> server-lucid-cluster-stack (RoakSoax, ivoks)
[14:20] <ttx> lucid-serverguide (sommer)
[14:20] <ttx> server-lucid-contextualization (stgraber)
[14:20] <ttx> server-lucid-papercuts (ttx)
[14:20] <ttx> to see what can be included in the lucid roadmap, and get community comments o nthem
[14:20]  * Daviey is happy with that :)
[14:21] <ttx> please be there !
[14:21] <nealmcb> thanks :)
[14:21] <mathiaz> ttx: ^^ this is a list of blueprint that still need to be discussed?
[14:21] <mathiaz> ttx: some other blueprints (like server-lucid-idmgmt-*) haven't been targeted for alpha-2
[14:22] <mathiaz> ttx: and they don't appear on the list above
[14:22] <ttx> mathiaz: this is a list of blueprints for which we need some input from the team to decide/continue
[14:22] <mathiaz> ttx: what's the plan with these?
[14:22] <ttx> mathiaz: it's mostly a resource issue, not a technical/consensus one
[14:22] <ttx> mathiaz: so it depends on what we keep from the global list
[14:23] <ttx> the list is the oens where the community is involved, one way or another
[14:23] <ttx> for example, for server-lucid-papercuts we need to discuss the process
[14:23] <ttx> for server-lucid-aws-client-libraries we need to define the most important targets
[14:24] <ttx> for server-lucid-cluster-stack we need some goals for lucid
[14:24] <ttx> etc.
[14:24] <mathiaz> ttx: does this mean that the server-lucid-idmgmt-* bp don't need any discussion?
[14:24] <ttx> mathiaz: no, it means that the spec is sufficiently defined to reach a decision
[14:24] <mathiaz> ttx: ok
[14:24] <ttx> doesn't prevent to discuss it :)
[14:25] <ttx> the list is the ones where we need community input to make progress
[14:25] <ttx> that should be an interesting meeting, be sure to be there :)
[14:25] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[14:25] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[14:25]  * ttx opens the bar
[14:26]  * mathiaz rushes to get some schnaps
[14:26] <ttx> anything / anyone ?
[14:27] <ttx> everyone is already drunk or what
[14:27] <ttx> moving on...
[14:27] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[14:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[14:27] <ttx> We'll skip the last meeting of the year...
[14:27] <ttx> so the next meeting will be the famous January 6 meeting.
[14:28] <ttx> same place same time...
[14:28] <ttx> If you can't make it, feel free to send your cmments to the ML
[14:28] <ttx> so that we take them into account during the meeting
[14:29] <ttx> comments ?
[14:29] <alexm> happy xmas :)
[14:29] <ttx> yes :)
[14:29] <ttx> thanks everyone for being here today :)
[14:29] <ttx> #endmeeting
[14:29] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 08:29.
</pre>
