{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** mathiaz: to verify SRU bug 666028
** ALL: please check the SRU tracker for verification-needed bugs and help out with verification
** SpamapS: change kernel team representative from jjohansen to smb in meeting agenda going forward
** robbiew: update the fridge calendar with new ubuntu server meeting time
** hggdh: contact Ubuntu Developers asking for packages which run test suites during build. 
* Natty Development
* Maverick SRUs
** Bug Bug:661547 - Existing patch gssapi.diff makes guess_service_principal produce garbage
** Bug Bug:657149 - squid fails to upgrade (incomplete)
** Bug Bug:658227 - openldap fails to upgrade (in -proposed)
** Bug Bug:660227 - php5-pgsql crash on getting an error back from postgres (in -proposed)
** Bug Bug:600174 - axis2c fails to build from source on maverick/i386
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-11-23 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* ALL: please check the SRU tracker https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/SRUTracker and help out with verification
* robbiew to review /ServerTeam wiki
* SpamapS to email a concrete proposal for addressing SRU verification backlog

===== General Discussion =====
* There are a great number of unnasigned SRU-nominated bugs.
   we should try tomake progress on the lucid ones before 10.04.2.
   SpamapS will devise a concrete proposal for addressing the backlog
   and email it for comment.
* hggdh sent out a call for packges running testsuites during build.
   He got some more packages to build, and they are already on the
   process.
* Robbie's main focus with blueprints is to identify work we
   know we can't do.  For the most part, looking good.  He hopes to
   have it all sorted by Friday.
* After almost 10 minutes spent discussing maverick SRUs, it was
   suggested that while they had been important to discuss immediately
   after release, they should now be globbed into the big list with
   lucid ones.  Skaet will be sending an email about a bi-weekly
   meeting to cover SRU's.  Serge will remove them from the server
   team agenda.
* hggdh is working with zul to take over part of the SRU process.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, November 23d at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:13] <hallyn> #startmeeting
[16:13] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:13. The chair is hallyn.
[16:13] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:13] <hallyn> TOPIC Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:13] <hallyn> #TOPIC Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:13] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:14] <hallyn> mathiaz: to verify SRU bug 666028
[16:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 666028 in openldap "apt-get install slapd => Can't locate object method "new" via package "Debconf::Element::Noninteractive::Booleam"" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/666028
[16:14] <hallyn> mathiaz isn't here though.  carry over?
[16:15] <SpamapS> indeed
[16:15]  * hallyn feels lonely
[16:15] <hallyn> moving on,
[16:15] <JamesPage> Not sure whether mathiaz did this but it has been verified
[16:15] <hallyn> ALL: please check the SRU tracker for verification-needed bugs and help out with verification
[16:15] <hallyn> JamesPage: oh, ok, thanks
[16:15] <SpamapS> There are 2 bugs needing verification in the SRU tracker right now
[16:15] <hallyn> so, i've personally done more to add sru requests than verify them this week, i'm afraid
[16:16] <SpamapS> The unassigned list is .. crazy though
[16:16] <SpamapS> Seems like we could all stand to attack the lucid ones with a vengance before 10.04.2
[16:16] <hallyn> which is when exactly?
[16:17] <zul> soon i think but robbiew has a probably better idea
[16:17] <SpamapS> January 27
[16:17] <kirkland> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidReleaseSchedule
[16:17] <robbiew> fyi - the dates are tentative ;)
[16:17] <hallyn> SpamapS: for simplicity, do you have a link to the sru tracker?
[16:17] <hallyn> (simplicity, and for the logs)
[16:18] <SpamapS> http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html#verified_bugs
[16:18] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html#verified_bugs
[16:18] <hallyn> cool, so i recon' we carry that one over?
[16:18] <SpamapS> Yes indeed.
[16:18] <robbiew> so is this link obsolete: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam
[16:18] <hallyn> [ACTION] ALL: please check the SRU tracker http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html#verified_bugs and help out with verification
[16:18] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ALL: please check the SRU tracker http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html#verified_bugs and help out with verification
[16:18] <robbiew> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/SRUTracker
[16:19] <robbiew> the 2nd one...1st isn't...hopefully :P
[16:19] <SpamapS> I've not seen that wiki page until just now.
[16:20] <SpamapS> was that manually maintained?
[16:20] <robbiew> [ACTION] robbiew to review /ServerTeam wiki
[16:20] <robbiew> :)
[16:20] <zul> robbiew: yeah that one is *really* old
[16:20] <hallyn> [ACTION] robbiew to review /ServerTeam wiki
[16:20] <MootBot> ACTION received:  robbiew to review /ServerTeam wiki
[16:20] <hallyn> which is really old?
[16:20] <zul> the ServerTeam/SRUTracker
[16:20] <hallyn> hm. ok. good to know, thx
[16:21] <hallyn> any more need to be said about sru's?
[16:21] <hallyn> (last week we deferred a conversation about making them a daily activity)
[16:22] <hallyn> all right then, moving on
[16:22] <hallyn> SpamapS: change kernel team representative from jjohansen to smb in meeting agenda going forward
[16:22] <SpamapS> lets have that SRU talk during Open Discussion
[16:22] <hallyn> ok
[16:22] <SpamapS> hallyn: done
[16:22] <hallyn> robbiew: update the fridge calendar with new ubuntu server meeting time
[16:22] <hallyn> (i saw this morning that was done :)
[16:22] <hallyn> (as i looked in a panick for the right time)
[16:22] <hallyn> hggdh: contact Ubuntu Developers asking for packages which run test suites during build.
[16:23] <hggdh> done -- I asked in devel-discuss. My track record for having emails accepted in -devel sucks
[16:23] <hallyn> haha, yeah easy way to feel rejection
[16:23] <hallyn> thanks
[16:23] <hggdh> I got some more packages to build, and they are already on the process
[16:24] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[16:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty Development
[16:25] <hallyn> anything to discuss here?
=== You're now known as ubuntulog
[16:25] <robbiew> oh
[16:25] <robbiew> so I'm reviewing/approving blueprints
[16:26] <SpamapS> you said that last week. ;)
[16:26] <robbiew> yep
[16:26] <robbiew> it's a slow process
[16:26] <hallyn> robbiew: is it safe to say that if we should be worried, you'd have talked to us by now?
[16:26] <robbiew> especially when folks are missing work items and milestone targets ;)
[16:26] <robbiew> nothing to worry about
[16:26] <robbiew> it's a fluid process anyway
[16:27] <robbiew> I could approve every single one
[16:27] <robbiew> but we know they won't all be done
[16:27] <robbiew> :)
[16:27] <hallyn> \o/
[16:27] <robbiew> my main focus is on eliminating work we KNOW we can't do
[16:27] <robbiew> and prioritizing the res
[16:27] <robbiew> rest
[16:27] <SpamapS> its basically whether you crush our dreams now, or the work crushes them later.
[16:27] <robbiew> so we know what to drop come review in Alpha 2 and Alpha 3
[16:27] <robbiew> welcome to time-based releases !
[16:27] <hallyn> SpamapS: except this lets us stay excited awhiel longer :)
[16:28] <robbiew> SpamapS: the priority of the blueprint will indicate dream-crushing probability :P
[16:28] <SpamapS> hallyn: its like wrapping up hunks of coal for christmas..
[16:28] <robbiew> as I'm out next week...I hope to have it all sorted by Friday
[16:28] <robbiew> especially since the 1st release mtg is quickly approaching
[16:29]  * SpamapS resolves to submit his remaining 3 BP's for review today
[16:29] <robbiew> and I don't want skaet to kick my ass ;)
[16:29] <skaet> :)
[16:29] <SpamapS> skaet: aim for the knees
[16:29] <robbiew> hallyn: that's it from me
[16:29] <hallyn> cool, thanks
[16:29] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Maverick SRUs
[16:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick SRUs
[16:29] <hallyn> Bug 661547 - Existing patch gssapi.diff makes guess_service_principal produce garbage
[16:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 661547 in openldap (Ubuntu) "Existing patch gssapi.diff makes guess_service_principal produce garbage" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/661547
[16:30]  * hallyn picks someone at random to point to
[16:30] <hallyn> zul: ^
[16:30] <JamesPage> Pending release of bug 666028 which is holding things up
[16:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 666028 in openldap "apt-get install slapd => Can't locate object method "new" via package "Debconf::Element::Noninteractive::Booleam"" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/666028
[16:30]  * smoser will have BPs submitted for approval also
[16:30] <hallyn> JamesPage: ah, thanks
[16:31] <hallyn> JamesPage: any estimated resolution date on that?
[16:31] <zul> hallyn: ack
[16:31] <JamesPage> patched version had been verified so now pending release
[16:32] <hallyn> <nod>  thanks
[16:32] <hallyn> Bug 657149 - squid fails to upgrade (incomplete)
[16:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 657149 in squid (Ubuntu) "package squid 2.7.STABLE9-2ubuntu5 failed to install/upgrade: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/657149
[16:33] <hallyn> uh, i'll try that again:  zul ^  :)
[16:33] <zul> hallyn: *sigh*
[16:33] <SpamapS> how is that an SRU for maverick at this point? It still doesn't even look Confirmed
[16:33] <hallyn> so it should be taken off that list?
[16:34] <zul> yes its incomplete
[16:34] <hallyn> all right, will pull that from the list for next mtg
[16:34] <hallyn> Bug 658227 - openldap fails to upgrade (in -proposed)
[16:34] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 658227 in openldap (Ubuntu Natty) "upgrade process does not upgrade underlying BDB format from 4.7 to 4.8 (so slapd aborts with "Program version 4.8 doesn't match environment version 4.7" error message)" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/658227
[16:34] <hggdh> it should. And it has not even been nominated
[16:35] <JamesPage> hallyn: 658227 released to -updates
[16:35] <hallyn> anything needed for lucid on that?
[16:35] <hallyn> oh no - i think coffee shop lady is about to reset my connection
[16:36] <hallyn> all right so 658227 i'll take off the list too
[16:36] <hallyn> Bug 660227 - php5-pgsql crash on getting an error back from postgres (in -proposed)
[16:36] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 660227 in php5 (Ubuntu) "php5-pgsql crash on getting an error back from postgres" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/660227
[16:36] <hallyn> fix released in maverick - remove from list?
[16:37] <zul> yes
[16:37] <hallyn> Bug 600174 - axis2c fails to build from source on maverick/i386
[16:37] <hallyn> (last one)
[16:37] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 600174 in axis2c (Ubuntu Natty) "axis2c fails to build from source on maverick/i386" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/600174
[16:37] <hallyn> not fix released in natty...
[16:37] <hallyn> not viable for sru?
[16:38] <SpamapS> I wonder if we need to keep handling Maverick SRU's in the meeting after this meeting?
[16:38] <hallyn> SpamapS: ?
[16:38] <zul> hallyn: its not a viable SRU
[16:39] <hallyn> zul: thanks.  will pull that one as well
[16:39] <SpamapS> I think the reason they were discussed was to handle the OMG bugs that needed fast turn around after the release. We're over a month out.. they should probably join lucid bugs in the big SRU list.
[16:39] <hallyn> sounds good to me.  let's discuss in open discussion
[16:39] <robbiew> SpamapS: agree...also (fwiw) skaet plans to have a bi-weekly meeting to cover SRUs
[16:39] <robbiew> separate from the weekly release meeting
[16:39] <hallyn> oh, that'd be good.  where will it be announced?
[16:39] <SpamapS> sign me up
[16:39] <skaet> yup.   email will be oming out soon...
[16:39] <hallyn> ditto
[16:40] <hallyn> cool, thanks
[16:40] <hallyn> moving on
[16:40] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:40] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:40] <hggdh> I am starting to work with zul to take over part of the SRU process
[16:40] <zul> yay!
[16:41] <hallyn> :)
[16:41] <hggdh> apart from that, finishing up my own BPs, and starting to work on them. No news, except we will try to review the current bug management process
[16:41] <hallyn> any questions for hggdh ?
[16:42] <hallyn> moving on, then
[16:42] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:42] <smb> I had prepared a list of bugs currently on our radar with comments. Since
[16:42] <smb> those are a few I am wondering whether I should bore everybody by quickly
[16:42] <smb> going over all of them or try to make a best of?
[16:43] <SpamapS> smb: I'd be interested in any that you need feedback/testing on.
[16:43] <hallyn> and i'd be interested in any you're working on, i think (might end up affecting me)
[16:43] <smoser> smb, if you have prepared list, pastebin it
[16:43] <hallyn> that smoser, always thinking
[16:43] <smoser> and then give us the greatest-hits
[16:43] <smb> Hm, there would be mostly one for ext4
[16:43] <smb> ok, a second
=== You're now known as ubuntulog_
[16:44]  * smoser finds it almost annoying how always prepared smb is :)
[16:44] <hallyn> smoser needs more annoying neighbors or something
=== You're now known as ubuntulog
[16:44] <smb> http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/533098/
[16:44] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/533098/
[16:45] <smb> For a lot of things I am finding myself wondering whether there could be any setup that would give us a dom0 similar to amazons
[16:45] <hallyn> crimey longer list than i expected :)
[16:46] <smb> hallyn, It just the many non-commiting comments
[16:46] <hallyn> smb: so which ones of those did you defiantely want to discuss?
[16:46] <smoser> smb, well, you can crawl logs and see reported xen versions
[16:47] <smoser> somewhat consistent results can be found with centos 5.X (where X is variable)
[16:47] <smb> I guess the one that might be about loosing interrupts, but iirc nobody from us could recreate the problems there
[16:47] <smoser> but many of hte ones that are hitting us now are race and or new-hardware
[16:47] <hallyn> smb: purely out of curiosity - for suspected kernel bugs involving bridging, who would likely end up being assigned?
[16:48] <smb> hallyn, If it looks any server related I seem to be the point of dumping lately
[16:48] <smb> hallyn, Though I probably try to get advice from tgardner on networking stuff
[16:49] <hallyn> smb: thanks
[16:49] <smoser> so, smb, my comments on above. lines 1-3, thank you thank you thank you.
[16:49] <hallyn> is everyone still following the links, or does noone have further questions for smb?
[16:49] <smoser> bug 614853, for 10.04, on 'linux-ec2' (which is no longer active), i really would like a solution, and am not terribly concerned about it being a hack.
[16:49] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 614853 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "kernel panic divide error: 0000 [#1] SMP" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/614853
[16:50] <smoser> maybe we should just put a BUG_ON statement there, so if we see fallout later we'll see messages in the console log that this was possibly related
[16:50] <smb> smoser, i think jj wanted to look into the chance of upstream
[16:50] <smb> Wanted to ask him today, but he had power issues earlier on as well
[16:50] <smoser> ah. ok. we'll i'll leave you to it.
[16:51]  * hallyn chuckles at the patch
[16:51] <smoser> yeah
[16:51] <hallyn> i wouldn't call that a hack, per se...
[16:51] <hallyn> any action for that bug then?
[16:51] <smb> Only because apparently those values should never be zero
[16:51] <smb> So I heard the checks just avoid the problem
[16:52] <smb> or hide it
[16:52] <smb> personally I would not care as long as there is no real solution and the system does not crash anymore
[16:52] <smb> I guess thats all so far
[16:52] <hallyn> if someone cares they can trace where avg_load gets set to 0 :)
[16:52] <hallyn> ok, any more q's for smb?  going once...
[16:53] <smoser> smb, so i guess i should poke at the natty boot bug
[16:53] <smoser> as we really really want to have that fixed by alpha1
[16:53] <hallyn> smoser: which # is that?
[16:53] <smoser> as we'd like to have an alpha that does more than send amazon money
[16:53] <smoser> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/669496
[16:53] <smb> smoser, It feels likesomething crashes very early on. But without seing anything its hard to say
[16:54] <smoser> well, yeah, other than there are messages in those logs. something goes amuck in kernel and it remounts ro
[16:54] <smb> smoser, We probably should clarify when there are messages or not. The t1.micro did not produce anything for me
[16:55] <smb> And the larger instance just booted fine
[16:55] <smoser> well, running natty kernel on maverick user space is less an immediate concern
[16:55] <smoser> than running natty kernel and natty user space
[16:56]  * SpamapS coughs... and looks at the clock ... again
[16:56] <smoser> in natty-natty, we get kernel messages in all cases (as far as I understood)
[16:56] <hallyn> any actions?
[16:56] <hallyn> [TOPIC] #
[16:56] <hallyn> #
[16:56] <MootBot> New Topic:  #
[16:56] <SpamapS> seems like you guys should continue this discussion in #ubuntu-(devel|server|?)
[16:56] <hallyn> Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:56] <hallyn> doh
[16:56] <hallyn> [TOPIC] #
[16:56] <hallyn> #
[16:56] <MootBot> New Topic:  #
[16:56] <hallyn> Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:56] <hallyn> grr
[16:57]  * SpamapS likes # cake
[16:57] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer
[16:57] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer
[16:57] <smoser> thanks smoser
[16:57] <smoser> thanks smb
[16:57] <SpamapS> sommer's not here again
[16:57] <hallyn> sommer is not here
[16:57] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[16:57] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[16:57] <smb> smoser, Damn completion. ;-)
[16:57] <hallyn> kim0 is not here
[16:57] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:57] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:58] <zul> i still like turtles
[16:58] <hallyn> SpamapS: you wanted to bring something up?
[16:58] <SpamapS> Can we discuss doing SRU verification and/or assignment on bug triage days? Seems like we're getting *way way way* behind on the SRU list.
[16:58] <Daviey> ack
[16:58] <hallyn> SpamapS: in the one sru tracker list, i only saw two pending...
[16:59] <SpamapS> hallyn: for verification yes
[16:59] <hallyn> SpamapS: for me, what i'm behind on is actually nominating kvm bugs for lucid sru!
[16:59] <hallyn> sorry to say
[16:59] <Daviey> SpamapS: With much of the team being at UDS, and the event last week - i imagine many of us are behind on our duties for thaty
[16:59] <SpamapS> but I mean the actual unassigned bugs accepted for a release
[16:59] <zul> SpamapS: its also that way so the community can get involved that way as well
[16:59] <hallyn> SpamapS: do you want to come up with a concrete proposal?
[16:59] <hallyn> (since we're out of time) and email it?
[17:00] <Daviey> sounds like a good starting point!!
[17:00] <hallyn> [ACTION] SpamapS to email a concrete proposal for addressing SRU verification backlog
[17:00] <MootBot> ACTION received:  SpamapS to email a concrete proposal for addressing SRU verification backlog
[17:00] <SpamapS> Yeah I'll email ubuntu-server with my ideas.
[17:00] <hallyn> cool, thanks
[17:00] <hallyn> anything else to discuss?
[17:00] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time: Tuesday 2010-11-23 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[17:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time: Tuesday 2010-11-23 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[17:00] <hallyn> thanks, all
[17:00] <hallyn> #endmeeting
</pre>
