{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
* The IRC council is not yet approved by the Community Council. Mako and Mark gave their +1 but James had some concerns. Dennis will address these via e-mail.
* Licensing of wiki content is still deadlocked. It was proposed that a new spec for the main wiki would be written.
The following candidates were approved as members, welcome aboard!
* Gabor Suveg
* Eric Lake
* Tiago Faria
* Martin Albisetti
* David Farning
* Dave Murphy
* Morgan Collett
* Cory Kontros

=== Log ===
{{{
06:26 < sabdfl> evening all, sorry i'm late
06:26 < Seveas> with 4 minutes to spare!
06:26 < Seveas> hi sabdfl
06:26 < Seveas> mako, elmo prod
06:26 < elmo> I'm around
06:26 < Seveas> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda
06:26 < Seveas> First thing on the agenda is goukis membership application since his flight leaves soon
06:27 < gouki> Thank you
06:27 < Seveas> gouki, please introduce yourself
06:27  * popey waves a flag for gouki for setting up http://ubuntuweblogs.org/
06:28 < iGama> :)
06:28 < gouki> My name is Tiago Faria and my nickname is gouki. I was born and raised on Portugal - Azores - Terceira and moved to the mainland (Lisbon) when I was 20.
06:29 < gouki> I started using Ubuntu GNU/Linux on March 2006 and a couple of weeks later I started helping the community with support and other projects that interested me.
06:29 < Seveas> (note for all applicants: please keep your introduction paste-ready and don't be afraid if nobody speaks after you pasted it. People probably are reading your wikipage/lp profile)
06:29 < gouki> I currently maintain the UbuntuWeblogs.org website, which is a Planet for Ubuntu users. I also have a IRC channel statistics page, which is currently offline.
06:30 < gouki> Other than that, more information about my contributions can be found on my Wiki (gouki) and my Launchpad profile.
06:30 < gouki> I think that's about it.
06:30 < mako> hey, i'm back
06:30 < Seveas> ubuntuweblogs.org is cool
06:30 < mako> sabdfl: hey there :)
06:31 < gouki> Thank you Seveas and popey for your comments on UbuntuWeblogs.org
06:31 < sabdfl> gouki: tell us about ubuntustats?
06:32 < gouki> Sure. UbuntuStats started as personal project to create statistics about the #Ubuntu channel on FreeNode. After talking to the IRC Council, who liked and approved my idea, I changed from monitoring one channel to monitoring seventeen.
06:32 < gouki> It basically works as follows:
06:32 < gouki> A bot (using IRSSI) gathers logs from the channels in question. These logs are parsed by IRSSISTATS into nice looking HTML pages, which are stored on the channel's appropriate folder on /var/www/, which uses LighTTPD for Web server.
06:32 < mako> wow, a bunch of work on the support tracker :)
06:32 < Rinchen> +1 for gouki for the users planet. If you read it regularly you'll find a number of very good articles. It also provides a home for those with "ubuntu membership in progress" and makes them feel like they are more part of the community.
06:32 < gouki> sabdfl: The site is down because of features Seveas asked me to implement.
06:33 < Seveas> gouki, how's that coming along?
06:33 < sabdfl> gouki: are you in the LP beta program?
06:33 < gouki> Seveas: C is not really my strong. I'm having a friend helping me out. I'm also changing the CSS for the site, so it doesn't look like every other IRSSISTATS website
06:34 < Seveas> gouki, sounds cool
06:34  * mako nods to Seveas and gouki 
06:34 < Seveas> can't wait to see it finished, then I can finally close the bug requesting stats :)
06:34 < gouki> sabdfl: No, I'm not. I'm currently studying for Linux+ from CompTIA and then I'll move to LPI Junior
06:35 < gouki> Seveas: There is not much left (= I'm also hosting the server on a static IP, so the DHCP server from my ISP doesn't lose my connection everytime it has to renew my IP address
06:35 < sabdfl> gouki: i'm impressed with the different ways you've gotten involed in the project - a very creative contribution!
06:35 < highvoltage> gouki: how long does your linux+ course last?
06:35 < sabdfl> thanks for that
06:35 < sabdfl> i'm +1
06:35 < gouki> sabdfl: Thank you. Like I said to Seveas once, this is my idea of fun.
06:35 < Seveas> gouki, if you need proper hosting for the html, just poke me (can't host the bot though)
06:36 < mako> absolutely, you've really carved out a place for yourself
06:36 < mako> and made some great contributions along the way
06:36 < gouki> highvoltage: I'm not taking the course. Just bought the book and I'm currently reading it (with some virtual exams)
06:36 < mako> gouki: how long have you been running these projects?
06:36 < gouki> mako: thank you very much
06:36 < mako> gouki: i wasn't familiar with most of them
06:36 < elmo> +1
06:36 < Seveas> gouki, congratulations!
06:37 < gouki> mako: The UbuntuStats started a night before Christmas, the UbuntuWeblogs started on the Christmas night! :)
06:37 < mako> great :)
06:37 < mako> well, i'm happy with membership +1 for me
06:37 < mako> gouki: thanks for all your hard work. i'm looking forward to seeing more great stuff in the future
06:37 < Seveas> oops, I was too early
06:37 < gouki> I'm sorry I don't have the server online right now so you guys could have a sample :S
06:37 < mako> Seveas: but not incorrect :)
06:37 < Seveas> well, congratulations anyway gouki. Have a pleasant flight :)
06:37 < highvoltage> gouki: congrats!
06:38 < Belutz> gouki, congrats :)
06:38 < gouki> Thank you very much guys! I still have some minutes left, I'll be in the channel as long as I can.
06:38 < beuno> gouki: how about: http://209.85.165.104/search?q=cache:kzj13v4v6N8J:ubuntustats.homelinux.org/+ubuntu+irc+statistics&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=3&gl=ar&client=firefox-a
06:38 < gouki> Thank you!
06:38 < Seveas> next on the agenda: IRC council
06:38 < Seveas> let me quickly introduce that:
06:38 < Seveas> For quite a while, I've been the de facto leader of the Ubuntu IRC team and the only official contact point between the ubuntu community and frenode staff. This is bad for a variety of reasons and should change. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrcTeam and pages it links to for a more complete intro than I could give on IRC.
06:38 < Seveas> We currently have a governance structure in place, but without blessing from the CC. We (the IRC council and the ops) think we are doing OK with the current structure and hope for an ack from the council so we can move forward in making this governance structure more official (eg: more contact points with freenode staff)
06:39 < apokryphos> Seveas unfortunately isn't a 24-hour-running machine 8)
06:39 < LaserJock> I thought he was a bot ;-)
06:40 < Belutz> lol
06:40 < Admiral_Chicago> he had me fooled.
06:40 < highvoltage> one of gouko's irssi bots?
06:40 < apokryphos> no, I'm sure seveas would only run on python
06:41 < Seveas> note that one of the council members (LjL) is not yet Ubuntu member, his ongoing work on IRC should definitely qualify for membership and he will apply soon (or else... :))
06:41 < elmo> Seveas: are there anye details on how that last issue that came to the CC was resolved?
06:41 < Seveas> elmo, apologies were sent and accepted, all went back to peace and business as usual
06:41 < apokryphos> Seveas: I don't think it should be a requirement for an IRC council member, though
06:41 < elmo> Seveas: sent by who? the instigator?
06:41 < Seveas> yes
06:42 < elmo> hmm
06:42 < mako> what is Lorenzo J. Luccini's nick?
06:42 < Seveas> LjL
06:42 < LjL> LjL
06:42 < mako> LjL: hey there :)
06:42 < LjL> hello :)
06:42 < mako> sorry, you were the only name i didn't match to a nick
06:42 < mako> how was the membership for hte council decided?
06:43 < apokryphos> voting by IRC operators
06:43 < LjL> there was a vote among operators
06:43 < jenda> Elections among the ops
06:43 < mako> a vote
06:43 < sabdfl> i like the IRC council idea, am very happy to +1 that in principle, would like to know the membership and would like to consider LjL for membership in Ubuntu now
06:43  * mako nods to sabdfl 
06:43 < Seveas> sabdfl, membership is listed on the IrcTeam pags (LjL, nalioth, Hobbsee and myself)
06:43 < mako> so you had a vote among operators will all operators on it and these were the top ones?
06:44 < apokryphos> the aim is to have 3 IRC council members but Seveas is staying on it during the transition period (before he steps down)
06:44 < Seveas> all operators who expressed interest in being on the council were in the vote
06:44 < mako> i'm just trying to make sure i have my head wrapped around the process.. it sounds pretty great :)
06:44 < mako> Seveas: right :)
06:44 < mako> no forced conscription :)
06:44 < Seveas> and all active operators were able to cast a vote
06:44 < apokryphos> they're all listed in the Launchpad IRC operator group
06:44 < jenda> ...and many, maybe most, did
06:45 < LjL> Well sabdfl, if i had to introduce myself, I couldn't say much except for my involvement with the Ubuntu IRC channels. I've been around since late 2005, I've tried to help people, tried to help make the bot a source of accurate and useful information - that sort of things.
06:45 < Seveas> LjL, if you want to consider LjL for membership in Ubuntu now, you'll see me doing the cheerleading -- he's been an amazing help in IRC land, both helping Ubuntu users and the ops
06:45 < Seveas> err
06:45 < Seveas> the first LjL in there should be sabdlf
06:45 < Seveas> consider that a compliment, LjL :p
06:46 < jenda> LjL should be a member, but not sabdfl ;)
06:46 < LjL> hehe
06:46 < gouki> Hehe
06:46  * gnomefreak cheers for LjL while im still here
06:46 < elmo> Seveas: so, err, keeping this oblique and hypothetical - are there any guidelines on how far you guys are willing to go in terms of shutting down someone who's causing you problems?
06:46 < apokryphos> LjL has been a really great operator and a wonderful help in many ubuntu-related channels. A +200 from  me ;)
06:47 < Seveas> we go as far as asking freenode staff for a k-line if someone misbehaves in numrous channels
06:47 < sabdfl> LjL: how longhave you been an IRC op?
06:47 < apokryphos> elmo: all we can do is ban them, really. If they're ban evaders or breaking freenode policy we inform staffers (we have several who idle in -ops) and they may get a kline
06:47 < elmo> Seveas: and that's the official position and nothing further is sanctioned or encouraged by the  irc team or it's members?
06:47 < mako> i'm sort of inclined to think that any person who wins a vote among operators for active/involved/responsible operaters is probably a good candidate for ubuntu membership :)
06:47 < apokryphos> right
06:47 < Seveas> but that happens very rarely and usually involves people who are misbehaving outside ubuntu land as well on freenode
06:48 < jenda> elmo: there are operator guidelines, too: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrcTeam/OperatorGuidelines
06:48  * Admiral_Chicago has class. I want to give a big shout for beuno for his great work on UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter, dfarning for MozillaTeam (getting it started, organized etc) and _MMA_ for Ubuntu Studio.
06:48 < Seveas> elmo, we have guidelines on when to take which action (jenda just linked)
06:48 < Admiral_Chicago> good luck everyone.
06:48 < beuno> thanks again Admiral_Chicago
06:49 < Seveas> elmo, but operators are also expected to have and use a brain and common sense. Which so far worked ok modulo some confusion which I hope has been cleared up by now
06:49 < gouki> Take care Admiral_Chicago
06:49 < mako> the guidelines look like common sense
06:49 < Seveas> mako, they're meant to look like that
06:49 < sabdfl> LjL: ^^ ?
06:49 < mako> yes, that's a good thing :)
06:49 < LjL> they mostly are a writing down of common sense. of course, there is a miriad of things that simply cannot be put into guidelines, and mere common sense has to be applied
06:50 < LjL> (or, if they can, they're very hard)
06:50 < LjL> sabdfl: oh, I'm sorry, I've missed that question. I've been an op since 2006 - middle 2006, I believe
06:50 < apokryphos> we tend to discuss any tough/questionable decisions amongst eachother anyhow
06:50 < LjL> Seveas: remember how long I've been an op? =)
06:50 < Seveas> LjL, sounds about right, I don't even remember exactly when you became op :)
06:51 < gnomefreak> same time as hobbsee and a couple of others?
06:51 < sabdfl> 7 months IRC Ops is definitely +1 from me
06:51 < apokryphos> nah, it was later than that
06:51 < gnomefreak> about a year
06:51 < jenda> Seveas: maybe launchpad knows?
06:51 < apokryphos> but it's been pretty long
06:51 < LjL> no, Hobbsee was an op for way longer than me, of that I'm sure
06:51 < LjL> I could quickly grep, i suppose :)
06:51 < sabdfl> who else is proposed for the IRC council? Is it an LP team?
06:52 < Seveas> jenda, not sure if we usd launchpad back then
06:52 < jenda> Seveas: ah, correct
06:52 < Seveas> sabdfl, nalioth (Marek Spruell), Hobbsee (Sarah Hobbs) and myself for the time being
06:52 < Seveas> all people who can edit the ubuntu-irc team on LP
06:52 < Seveas> https://beta.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc/+members
06:53 < sabdfl> ok, +1 for both LjL as member, and the IRC council
06:53 < gnomefreak> says 10/28/06 but i thought it was before than
06:53 < sabdfl> from me
06:53 < Seveas> sabdfl, thanks!
06:54 < Seveas> gnomefreak, I've been quite sloppy with the LP team
06:54 < Seveas> it most likely was before that
06:54 < gnomefreak> ah ok :)
06:54 < jenda> yay
06:55 < gouki> Everyone, I have to go to the boarding gate. Good luck for the meeting and thank you for the great feedback on my projects.
06:56 < gnomefreak> have fun and congrats gouki
06:56 < GazzaK> gouki: well done, have a good flight
06:56 < gouki> Thank you
06:56 < s|g> gouki: cu
06:56 < jenda> gouki: safe trip :)
06:56 < mako> yes, i'd prefer having all members of the council as members
06:56 < mako> and am happy to +1 LjL and the council as well
06:56 < LjL> uhm, I've tried to search my IRC logs, but I don't seem to be able find the date I was made an op, sorry
06:57 < mako> with the stipultion that LjL puts together a nice wiki page :)
06:57 < mako> LjL: which you should do anyway :)
06:57 < LjL> well, I do have a wiki page, but I suppose you could consider it less than nice :-)
06:57 < mako> while we're at it, i should improve mine
06:58 < LjL> (You can see http://wiki.ubuntu.com/LorenzoJLucchini for the current self-inflicted sarcasm)
06:59  * apokryphos chuckles
07:00 < sabdfl> Seveas: thanks for getting that team so efficient and for your leadership there
07:00 < s|g> Seveas: msg avaliable ?
07:01 < Seveas> s|g, not atm - after this meeting item is over
07:01 < mako> elmo: ?
07:01 < s|g> Seveas: im finish with my page
07:01 < elmo> +1 to LjL
07:01 < Seveas> LjL, congrats!
07:01 < elmo> I'm going to +0 the council at the moment, I have some unresolved concerns, which may just be in my head, but I don't want to +1 right now, but I'm not -1 either
07:02 < LjL> thanks :-)
07:02 < apokryphos> elmo: please feel free to ask or voice any concerns you have, though
07:03 < Seveas> (I'm discussing this in pm with elmo atm, there are some privacy issues involved)
07:03 < jenda> LjL: congrats - and a "finally" ;)
07:03 < apokryphos> LjL: pfft, now it's just me and DBO :P
07:03  * apokryphos should apply one day
07:04 < thoreauputic> LjL: congrats from me too :)
07:04 < sabdfl> let's hold off on formal council approval
07:04 < LjL> jenda: ha, i was waiting for that finally from someone :P
07:04 < apokryphos> but now, dinner 8)
07:04 < sabdfl> till elmo's satisfied
07:04 < sabdfl> mako?
07:04 < elmo> sabdfl: don't block on me, I'm fine with the +2 of you two carrying
07:04 < sabdfl> ok, but will you let us know next time riund if your concerns are addressed?
07:05 < sabdfl> sri/ro/
07:05 < sabdfl> erk
07:05 < sabdfl> can hardly type over here
07:05 < elmo> sabdfl: sure
07:06 < Seveas> ok, next up: etank
07:06 < mako> yeah, i'd prefer that
07:06 < etank> hi
07:06 < mako> lets wait until elmos is ok
07:06 < Seveas> (s|g wanted to come later, xerxas isn't around)
07:06 < mako> we've got two oks from us but i'd rather everyone was comfortable before we move forward
07:06 < Seveas> etank, please introduce yourself
07:06 < etank> My name is Eric Lake. I have been advocating Ubuntu since the day I started using it in December
07:06 < Seveas> mako, indeed
07:06 < etank> of 2005. Before that time I was a Gentoo and Suse user. I am a co-founder and team leader for the
07:06 < s|g> Seveas: im finished
07:06 < Seveas> s|g, pm is ok now
07:06 < etank> Kentucky Team. My Ubuntu pages are https://launchpad.net/~ericlake and
07:06 < etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EricLake.
07:09 < sabdfl> nice neat wiki page - thanks etank
07:09 < jenda> This is one of those aaawkward silences before the +1s start rolling in...
07:09 < etank> thank you
07:09 < jenda> ah, too late ;)
07:09 < sabdfl> so using ubuntu since late 05, when did you get involved in the community?
07:09 < sabdfl> sorry jenda, slow reader :-)
07:10 < etank> around the same time but mostly posts on the forum
07:10 < jenda> sabdfl: not at all, it makes it a lot more thrilling ;)
07:10 < mako> etank: kentucky is a commonwealth, right?
07:10 < etank> mako: yes it is
07:10 < mako> etank: excellent :)
07:10 < mako> i like it already
07:11 < highvoltage> commonwealth? so we can go there without a visa?
07:11 < atoponce> etank is rock solid with loco work. if everyone were like etank when starting their state loco in the u.s., we'd have a team in every state in no time
07:11 < etank> thank you atoponce
07:11 < mako> highvoltage: yeah, just technically not a state. it's a mostly semantic difference.. but important to some people from other commonwealths
07:11 < mako> etank: how many people in the group?
07:11 < mako> etank: the kentucky loco?
07:11 < atoponce> etank: np :) good luck!
07:12 < etank> mako: we are at 41 members now
07:12 < elmo> mako: you US folks are weird
07:12 < mako> etank: that's from lp though, right? how many are active?
07:12 < etank> we are working towards LoCo approval now
07:12 < mako> elmo: mostly just me
07:12 < etank> about 15 active
07:12 < sabdfl> how many large cities in kentucky?
07:12 < mako> etank: still a good size.. do you have face to face meetings?
07:13 < etank> we are going to be having the first on April 21st
07:13 < etank> that will be a release party / face to face meeting
07:13 < sabdfl> who are the ringleaders?
07:13 < etank> sabdfl: the two largest are Louisville and Lexington. they make up the largest amount of the population of the state
07:14 < etank> bkingx, venemous and myself got things started
07:15 < bkingx> I can also vouch for etank's effeciency in conducting meetings, organizing events, and setting agendas and goals!  First Class!!
07:15 < sabdfl> is kentucky near ohio? is there any cross-pollination with those amazing guys?
07:15 < etank> yes it is
07:15 < etank> just to the south
07:16 < etank> I have worked with Vorian some on ideas for the Kentucky team
07:16 < sabdfl> that's good
07:16 < atoponce> oh, ny, and ky are rocking it in loco work
07:16 < etank> atoponce has been quite a bit of help too
07:17 < sabdfl> etank: you reported a bug a week ago that's neds-info
07:17 < etank> we are planning to go to the Ohio LinuxFest this year
07:17 < sabdfl> will you provide it?
07:17 < etank> I plan to but my USB drive was left at home
07:18 < etank> I am trying to recreate the error
07:21 < sabdfl> ok
07:21 < sabdfl> the kentucky team looks well enough organised (grammar?) that i would be happy to +1 that, and the ringleaders for membership
07:21 < mako> the kentucky team looks great
07:21 < sabdfl> mako, elmo?
07:21 < elmo> +1
07:21  * mako nods
07:21 < mako> definitely a a +1 from me, welcome etank
07:22 < sabdfl> bourbon all round!
07:22 < Seveas> congratulations!
07:22 < Seveas> s|g, you're up
07:22 < sabdfl> sorry elmo, can i have yours?
07:22 < etank> thanks
07:22 < s|g> I'm a sysadmin and web developer from Hungary. I've been using OSS for a long time now (first distro was Debian Boo). I've tried many linux distros (Slackware, Gentoo, SuSE etc.), and BSDs, and since Warty do I use Ubuntu, and I'm very satisfied with it so far.
07:22 < s|g> I'm translator of many OSS projects (gimp, openoffice.org, icewm, drupal etc), and now I'm the leader of the Hungarian Ubuntu Translation and Web Team.
07:22 < highvoltage> yay@bourbon!
07:22 < s|g> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GaborSuveg
07:22 < s|g> im 2nd times here in meeting
07:22 < atoponce> etank: congrats!!!
07:22 < elmo> sabdfl: +1
07:23 < mako> s|g: i think you mean debian bo
07:23 < s|g> ye
07:23 < sabdfl> thanksh elmo
07:23 < s|g> mako: sry
07:23 < s|g> im updated my wiki page
07:23 < Seveas> I'm impressed with the wikipage.Not that many Ubuntu members made TV appearances
07:23 < sabdfl> elmo: remember the meat place after the terrifying drive in Brazil 3 years ago?
07:23 < s|g> new ubuntu.hu is coming
07:23 < elmo> sabdfl: sure
07:24  * mako looks at the updates
07:24 < Seveas> (note: s|g *just* updated the page, so if you have it open sinc before 19:12, please refresh
07:24 < sabdfl> i think i had your drinks there too
07:24 < s|g> Seveas: http://www.flickr.com/photos/gsuveg/345542752/
07:25 < sabdfl> s|g: is linux very popular in Hungary?
07:25 < s|g> sabdfl: not very, but we work on that very hard
07:25 < s|g> sabdfl: our conference was very good (imho)
07:25 < sabdfl> i believe about 70% of the whiteboxes that ship there, use Linux, but i think most of them switch to windows very quickly
07:26 < highvoltage> pirate copies?
07:26 < s|g> sabdfl: we spoke form conferece last time ago
07:27 < sabdfl> how would you integrate bzr into the kde gui?
07:27 < sabdfl> highvoltage: mostly
07:27 < s|g> sabdfl: like the olive, or what the svn client give in konqeror
07:27 < mako> sabdfl: that's funny, but predictable
07:28 < sabdfl> mako: ? the high rate of linux shipping but not sticking?
07:28 < sabdfl> i had very good feedback on the conference s|g organised
07:28 < sabdfl> from several different sources
07:28 < sabdfl> both community and some commercial
07:28 < s|g> sabdfl: i like bzr, and im kde user
07:28 < s|g> sabdfl: thanks
07:29 < mako> s|g: i appreciate your efforts to build out your page si nce we saw you last time
07:30 < mako> s|g: and i'm happy with the results.. the documentation looks great
07:30 < s|g> thank you
07:30 < sabdfl> yes
07:30 < sabdfl> +1 from me, i know you've been working on it for some time now
07:30 < mako> s|g: great improvements, you're where you thought you would be.. so i'm happy with a +1
07:30 < mako> s|g: thanks for being patient :)
07:30 < s|g> mako: np
07:30 < Seveas> elmo, ?
07:31 < s|g> mako: im not newbie in opensource community
07:32 < s|g> mako: we finished gnome l10n before release
07:32 < sabdfl> xerxas not here, beuno are you ready?
07:32 < elmo> +1
07:32 < beuno> sabdfl: absolutely
07:32 < Seveas> congrats s|g !
07:32 < sabdfl> super
07:32 < sabdfl> welcome aboard, s|g
07:32 < s|g> Seveas: thank you!
07:32 < Seveas> beuno, you're up
07:32 < sabdfl> and thanks for sticking with it
07:33 < sabdfl> beuno: roll on
07:33 < beuno> Hi, my name is Martin Albisetti and I've been using Ubuntu for about 2 years. I've been involved in the community for a little bit under a year now. My main contributions have been to the Marketing Team, in getting the UWN out every week, and I've been the editor for the past 3. I'm also helping get the DIY website up. The other place I've made a substantial contribution is by setting up the Argentina LoCo and leading it up until to
07:33 < beuno> day. Being I'm bilingual, I'm also an official spanish translator, so I've got a few  karma points. Quick links, wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MartinAlbisetti and launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~beuno
07:33 < Seveas> s|g, now join the ubuntumembers team ;)
07:33 < s|g> Seveas: finished. thanks
07:33 < sabdfl> mrevell wrote to the CC about beuno:
07:33 < sabdfl> "My contact with Martin Albisetti has been through his work on restarting Ubuntu Weekly News. He has worked to bring back regular publication and has actively sought new content."
07:33 < Seveas> s|g, rock
07:33 < jenda> Beuno is a marvelous member of the Marketing Team, who has helped the DIY (spreadubuntu) project considerably and recently has had an awesome streak of UWN contributions (without him, we wouldn't have had a UWN for weeks!)
07:33 < sabdfl> i'm thrilled with UWN's revival
07:33 < s|g> Seveas: you rock
07:34  * leogg cheers for beuno
07:34 < Seveas> it's definitely good to see UWN back
07:34  * highvoltage cheers for beuno too, UWN is cool again
07:34 < mako> beuno: how long have you been active in marketing team and other ubuntu work?
07:35 < beuno> mako, a bit under a year, I started out in the forums, and ended up getting involved everywhere I could
07:35 < beuno> I think I've been around the marketing team for about 6 months, jenda?
07:36 < beuno> launchpad says "Joined on 2006-09-25"
07:37 < jenda> beuno: about so ;)
07:37 < tsmithe> i'd like to put in a quick word for beuno: he's always around busying away keeping the marketing team on the ball, and this was evident especially in jenda's absence, and it continues still. good luck, mate :)
07:37 < Seveas> beuno, how do you think the marketing team is doing?
07:38 < beuno> Seveas: I think it has slowed down a bit in the last few months, but it seems to be picking up
07:38 < Seveas> beuno, do you have plans for improving it?
07:38 < beuno> core members like jenda, cody and corey have been either busy or on leave
07:39 < beuno> Seveas: as much as I can, I'm trying to focus on UWN now, to get that released on a regular basis and have more contributors so it doesn't depends so much on a single person
07:39 < beuno> and then we have 2 websites we need to get up and running, DIY, and then spreadubuntu
07:40 < beuno> I think those two will make a big impact
07:40 < Seveas> sounds like you'll be busy for a while :)
07:40 < sabdfl> beuno: you've reported a few bugs that are still needs-info
07:40 < beuno> Seveas: I hope so!
07:40 < sabdfl> are you actively working on those?
07:40 < beuno> sabdfl: yes, I've had some issues with a plam device which I don't have anymore for the time being
07:41 < sabdfl> how long have you been part of the marketing team? Seems like you're making a great contribution now, is this a sustained effort?
07:41 < sabdfl> plam?
07:41 < Burgwork> I would also advocate for beuno: he has been a great help with keeping the UWN going
07:41 < beuno> sorry, palm  :D
07:42 < beuno> sabdfl: I've been with the marketing team for about 6 months, and my goal is to continue working with them, I believe it has been a sustained effort, but I guess jenda and Burgwork would judge that better
07:42 < mako> this all looks fine
07:42 < sabdfl> jenda, Burgwork?
07:42 < Burgwork> sabdfl: +1 from me
07:42 < sabdfl> ok, i'm in :-)
07:43 < sabdfl> +1 from me
07:43 < mako> i'm happy with your contributions
07:43 < highvoltage> Burgwork: you're a CC member now? ;)
07:43 < mako> +1 from me as well
07:43 < beuno> I've been pushing the UWN forward the last months because it wasn't being released, but I've been helping out the last 7 or 8
07:43 < mako> thanks everyone for the testimonials
07:43 < elmo> +1
07:43 < jenda> sabdfl: I said above ;)
07:43 < mako> they helped a lot this time
07:43 < mako> Burgwork: thanks
07:43 < Burgwork> highvoltage: nope, not yet :)
07:43 < sabdfl> beuno: UWN is an enormously valuable contribution
07:43 < Seveas> congrats beuno !
07:43 < jenda> "Beuno is a marvelous member of the Marketing Team, who has helped the DIY (spreadubuntu) project considerably and recently has had an awesome streak of UWN contributions (without him, we wouldn't have had a UWN for weeks!)"
07:43 < beuno> :D
07:43 < tsmithe> well done beuno :)
07:43 < gnomefreak> .win 12
07:43 < sabdfl> i think we should get it wider circulation if at all possible
07:43 < Seveas> dfarning, you're next
07:43 < jenda> hehe
07:43 < sabdfl> it's very high quality work
07:43 < dfarning> Hello, I am David Farning From Lacrosse, Wisconsin.  I am often referred to as the derivative guy;)  That story can be found on my Wiki at wiki.ubuntu.com/DavidFarning  My main effort for the next couple of weeks will be on writing a Derivative Distribution tool Kit.  Phase 1 will be a gui to help create localized distros for our Loco teams.  The demand has been pretty overwhelming.  In addition to this concrete coding, I am
07:43 < dfarning>  working developing relationships with distributions base on Ubuntu.  The main thrust of our conversations is the establishment of technical standards for simplified bug handling and OEM and ISV acceptance.
07:43 < dfarning> My goal is to make the phrase, 'Based on Ubuntu' as common as 'Intel Inside'.
07:43 < s|g> cu
07:43 < sabdfl> welcome aboard, beuno
07:44 < beuno> thanks sabdfl
07:44 < highvoltage> congrats beuno, thanks for bringing UWN back.
07:44 < sabdfl> dfarning: lp, wiki?
07:44 < gnomefreak> david does alot of work getting mozillateam going
07:44 < mako> dfarning: so i'm rather familiar with your work since your email to the CC
07:44 < mako> dfarning: but not hugely familiar with the time before
07:44 < dfarning> wiki.ubuntu.com/DavidFarnin
07:44 < dfarning> I started on the Mozilla team
07:45 < mako> dfarning: ah, ok
07:45 < gnomefreak> s/david/dfarning
07:45 < mako> dfarning: who were you working with when you started?
07:45 < dfarning> mako, the Mozilla team?
07:45 < Seveas> I remember dfarning doing loads of mozilla bugwork the 11000+ karma seems to agree with my memory
07:45 < gnomefreak> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DavidFarning to make sure everone gets it
07:46 < dfarning> yea I thought the mozilla products were pretty neglected
07:46 < Seveas> dfarning, didn't you do that since back in 2005?
07:46 < sabdfl> dfarning has been very proactive with me and the cc
07:46 < dfarning> They needed a little kickstart
07:46 < sabdfl> which is great
07:46 < gnomefreak> dfarning: still does a load of bug work and wiki work for us also has started the derivative team (sp)
07:46 < sabdfl> positive mails looking to figure out how to get interesting things done
07:46 < sabdfl> much appreciated, dfarning!
07:46 < dfarning> I did a little work but had no time until recently
07:47 < dfarning> thanks
07:47 < dfarning> Now the mozilla is a good little team lead by asac;)
07:48 < mako> dfarning: who on the mozilla team?
07:48 < sabdfl> dfarning: i see you have a couple of folks who've applied for the team
07:48 < sabdfl> but not yet been approved
07:48 < gnomefreak> dfarning: that reminds me, i dont have meail atm so when done here can you join #ubuntu-mozillateam about next meeting
07:48 < sabdfl> what are your criteria?
07:48  * gnomefreak on it
07:48 < gnomefreak> asac: is on it
07:48 < dholbach> dfarning did **amazing** work on the Mozilla team and was creative in getting the team in shape, always talked to lots of people and just managed it the right way. I had a couple of conversations with him and his enthusiasm was just great to watch.
07:48 < gnomefreak> Admiral_Chicago: AlexLatchford  are also on it
07:49 < dfarning> https://launchpad.net/~mozillateam/+members
07:49 < dfarning> I have been talking with Jono about how to set up membership requirement
07:50 < mako> i'm completely thrilled to recognize dfarning with membership
07:50 < dfarning> we want to have our members show quality without scaring off the new folks
07:50 < dfarning> hard to do;(
07:50 < mako> i appreciate the long-term work on the mozilla team (thanks dholbach for hte test) and i'm also happy to see the work on the derivatives team
07:50 < asac> sorry for being late, dfarning really did lot of work for mozillateam ... would like to see him a member
07:50 < Seveas> mako, I couldn't agree more
07:50 < mako> which has sort of been my pet concern for a very long time
07:50 < mako> and i'm happy to see someone run with it
07:50 < mako> so that's a +1 from me
07:51 < sabdfl> dfarning: do we have good debian-ubuntu collaboration on mozilla* despite the iceweasel stuff?
07:51 < mako> good question :)
07:51 < Seveas> Package: firefox
07:51 < Seveas> Provides: icweasel
07:51 < dfarning> asac is handling that from the develop point of view
07:51  * Seveas runs
07:51 < sabdfl> (as an aside, despite my love of bzr this does seem like the one problem DARCS was born to solve)
07:52 < dfarning> I am trying to work on the more general firefox on linux problem
07:52 < dfarning> it is kind of tough going
07:52 < sabdfl> we have a package that provide iceweasel? is that filed under "backwards compatibility"?
07:53 < gnomefreak> not that im aware of we(Ubuntu) has nothing that brings in iceweasel
07:53 < sabdfl> dfarning: do you have any contacts at the mozilla foundation?
07:53 < dfarning> I would have to ask asac that
07:53 < Seveas> sabdfl, no it was just a bad joke on my side
07:53 < dfarning> not as of yet, I have mostly rebuffed with the 'your market share is too small'
07:53 < highvoltage> I think the package 'firefox' provides 'iceweasel' for packages that require iceweasel as a dependency
07:54 < mako> it would be nice to work with iceweasel developers more closely
07:54 < asac> i have good connection to iceweasel/xulrunner/iceape maintainer :) ... what is the question here?
07:54 < sabdfl> dfarning: we could introduce you to them under our umbrella
07:54 < dfarning> thus the derivitive team
07:54 < Seveas> highvoltage, it doesn't: dennis@mirage:~$ apt-cache show firefox | grep ^Provides
07:54 < Seveas> Provides: www-browser
07:54 < gnomefreak> highvoltage: iceweasel isnt in repos so it cant  provide it but does symlink stuff for it iirc
07:54 < mako> most of the most successful ubuntu/debian collaborations i've seen have happened in large packages like mozilla
07:54 < dfarning> sabdfl: thanks that would be great
07:54 < highvoltage> Seveas: ah
07:55 < sabdfl> +1 from me for membership, on the back of superb work with the moz team
07:55 < Seveas> 2 down
07:55 < LaserJock> I believe in Universe we manually s/iceweasel/firefox/ in deps
07:55 < Seveas> elmo, ?
07:55 < elmo> +1
07:55 < Seveas> 3 down, congrats!
07:55 < sabdfl> welcome aboardQ!
07:55 < gnomefreak> congrats dfarning
07:55 < sabdfl> !
07:55 < dfarning> thanks all
07:55 < dholbach> congratulations dfarning - you rock!
07:55 < Seveas> schwuk is next
07:55 < schwuk> My name is Dave Murphy, although I'm more commonly known as schwuk, and I live in rural Cumbria in the United Kingdom. My wiki page is: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DaveMurphy. I'm currently employed as an engineer at a large mutlinational IT firm.
07:55 < schwuk> I've been using Linux since 1997, as well as dabbling in OpenBSD. I was a staunch Red Hat user until Ubuntu first came out, when I switched and never (seriously) looked back.
07:55 < schwuk> I'm a member of the UK LoCo Team, which I designed the logo for, and I'm a member of the UK translation team. I also write about Ubuntu and Linux, contributing articles to both online and print publications. I'm currently writing a book on managing software development with Trac and Subversion, which will be published later this year.
07:56 < schwuk> Last - but by no means least :) - I'm co-authoring the 2nd edition of the Official Ubuntu Book along with mako et al.
07:56 < popey> A flag waving from me for schwuk who is a voice of balance and reason, and contributed well to the Ubuntu-UK stand at last years LinuxWorld Expo. He also runs a LUG which gets max brownie points from me
07:56 < LoudMouthMan> Dave Murphys' commitment and joie de buntu  is sublime in its delivery and his enthusiasm and wit are much valued here in the uk community. oh and he does the synergestic thing as well.
07:56 < Seveas> cool, 2nd edition!
07:56 < sabdfl> mrevell wrote to the CC about schwuk:
07:56 < sabdfl> "Dave Murphy is an ideal candidate for membership, as he is co-author of the new edition of the official Ubuntu book, has been an active member of the UK loco team and promotes Ubuntu and free software ideals within his everyday life."
07:56 < sabdfl> mako, did you pass the baton?
07:56 < schwuk> thanks popey, LoudMouthMan and mrevell :)
07:57 < sabdfl> schwuk: tell us about the UK translations team?
07:57 < mako> sabdfl: um.. no
07:58 < sabdfl> publishers!
07:58 < schwuk> I got involved in it when the dapper translations were released
07:58 < highvoltage> schwuk: your name is very close to a famous fictional hacker (Dade Murphy)
07:59 < sabdfl> schwuk: what are the things you think are most important for feisty+1?
07:59 < schwuk> Although there's not a lot of actual translation work for British English, it making sure that things are 100% translated, and the Americanisms are caught.
07:59 < sabdfl> tell us about the uk loco team?
07:59 < mako> sabdfl: schwuk is helping revise a couple chapters for the book.. i've continued to do more than i have time for on the book, which looks relaly good :)
08:00 < mako> so i know schwuk already
08:00 < sabdfl> schwuk: how long have you been engaged with UKloco and translation teams?
08:00 < schwuk> feisty+1? More of the same that's in feisty. I know desktop-effects and hardware acceleration are a touchy subject, but we need them to be judged as equal to the other operating systems.
08:01 < schwuk> We need to make them easier to install as well. Fiesty makes great improvements to this and efforts like Envy will make it even easier.
08:02 < MagicFab> Hello - sorry I am this late
08:02 < schwuk> I've been with the UK LoCo team since the beginning, and the translation team maybe a year?
08:02 < sabdfl> ok, +1 from me
08:03 < Seveas> MagicFab, it's ok - there still are member candidates :)
08:03 < schwuk> Thanks sabdfl.
08:03 < elmo> +1
08:03 < schwuk> Thanks elmo.
08:03 < Seveas> mako, ?
08:04 < mako> +1 from me, definitely
08:04 < schwuk> Thanks as well mako.
08:04 < Seveas> schwuk, did you join the ubuntumembers team on launchpad?
08:04 < Seveas> congrats!
08:04 < schwuk> Seveas: I will now.
08:05 < Seveas> morgs, you're up
08:05 < LoudMouthMan> congrats Schwuk.
08:05 < Seveas> schwuk, poke me when done so I can approve you :)
08:05 < morgs> Hi, I'm Morgan Collett from Cape Town, very involved in the South African LoCoTeam. I'm not the team leader but am the most active in getting things going as the team leader is... busy. I've organised the first IRC meeting, written much of the wiki at http://www.ubuntu-za.org, initiated the first meetup. I'm distributing the LoCoTeam's remaining Edgy CDs since they are soon to be obsolete, and they've been sitting in the team leade
08:05 < morgs> r's house for months.
08:05 < morgs> My wikipage is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MorganCollett, LP is https://launchpad.net/~morgan
08:05 < morgs> Future plans include getting Ubuntu-ZA to be active in stuff like events, advocacy, CD distribution working smoothly in ZA (many are frustrated with ShipIt's slowness). I'm facilitating an Ubuntu-ZA BoF at the Digital Freedom Exposition, a local conference coming up with Jimmy Wales, Brian Behlendorf, Bdale etc.
08:05 < morgs> I hang out on #ubuntu-za and #ubuntu-locoteams when possible.
08:05 < morgs> Oh, and I came to UDS-MTV to see where all the cool stuff happens (and represent ubuntu-za)...
08:05 < schwuk> Thanks LoudMouthMan.
08:06 < highvoltage> I'm in the ubuntu-za locoteam, and I have to say that morgs is under-selling himself on the loco-team work
08:06 < schwuk> Seveas: done.
08:06 < highvoltage> our loco team was originally founded by people who doesn't even run Ubuntu
08:06 < highvoltage> and it has been in a bit of a bad state until morgs came along
08:07 < morgs> :-)
08:07 < elmo> highvoltage: err - why did they found it then?
08:07 < sabdfl> good job, schwuk!
08:07 < highvoltage> morgs has worked hard the past few months on getting meetings organised, getting the wiki in a bit of a better shape, getting the mailing list active, RL meetings, etc
08:07 < sabdfl> morgs: welcome
08:07 < morgs> Good question. I think two guys got together, thought it would be a good idea, and then didn't do anything
08:07 < morgs> sabdfl: :-)
08:07 < highvoltage> elmo: I have no idea
08:07 < sabdfl> folks, morgan and i worked together at university
08:07 < schwuk> Thanks sabdfl.
08:07 < highvoltage> elmo: I wish I knew myself
08:08 < morgs> sabdfl introduced me to python...
08:08 < sabdfl> morgan was the only comp-sci student willing to launch himself into the joys of the net
08:08 < morgs> python 1.2 was it?
08:08 < sabdfl> morgs worked with me at thawte too, so we go back a ways
08:08 < sabdfl> very happy to see him here, and active in sa loco
08:08 < highvoltage> I'm also working with some of the hardware manufacturers that morgs is working with (as part of my day job), and I can also testify that he's doing good work in terms of hardware compatibility testing with Ubuntu
08:08 < morgs> Thanks sabdfl
08:08  * morgs ^5's highvoltage 
08:08 < highvoltage> morgs: ^5!
08:09 < morgs> Our LoCoTeam has been very quiet, lots of lurkers. 140 members on the mailing list IIRC (I don't have access to check that)
08:09 < mako> sabdfl: i didn't know morgs worked at thawte...
08:09 < sabdfl> morgs: how is digital freedome expo coming together?
08:09 < sabdfl> mako: head of engineering
08:09 < Steck> Greetings, does anyone know about how long it takes for the community council log to be posted?
08:09 < mako> i've run into morgs a few times as well, and only been impressed :)
08:09 < highvoltage> morgs was also very helpful at our lug stand with the big computer fair last year, promoting ubuntu to the new small business and end users
08:09 < morgs> I think there has been a perception that the Ubuntu stuff in ZA is being funded by Mark
08:09 < Seveas> Steck, meeting is still going on
08:10  * Steck hides in the shadows
08:10 < Steck> Sorry :)
08:10 < morgs> sabdfl: Novell just cancelled their stand, "budgetary reasons"
08:10 < Seveas> morgs, as in "microsoft will sue us for mor than we're worth if we're going"
08:10 < sabdfl> perfect timing, given the .za government is taking seriously about floss
08:11 < morgs> So while we have 11 official languages, very little community participation in translation etc. So we are starting to push community participation in translation to translate.org.za
08:12 < morgs> It's a bit challenging getting this LoCoTeam going without hitting the leaders over the head with the LeadershipCodeOfConduct...
08:13 < morgs> One of the leaders is basically awol - hasn't answered an email in more than a month (but he's apparently a great guy etc etc)
08:13 < morgs> Anyway, turns out people just need a bit of cheerleading and some vision to follow
08:13 < highvoltage> morgs: I think the other reason why it's so difficult to get it going is because the LUG's here are so strong, and people tend to want to contribute there atm
08:13 < sabdfl> the leadership CoC is a serious commitment
08:14 < sabdfl> it's reasonable to want to have a group of ringleaders that are available and committed
08:15 < morgs> The LUGs are strong, and we don't want to replace or detract from them. At the Futurex Expo, I thought CLUG seemed to more accurately be the Cape Local Ubuntu Group instead of the Cape Linux User Group. Even the Gentoo users were handing out Ubuntu CDs and saying, "Install this" :-)
08:15 < morgs> Leadership is an issue, but I think that can be worked on, especially if I am a member ;-)
08:15 < highvoltage> morgs: indeed, CLUG is very debian/ubuntu-centric
08:16 < sabdfl> well, +1 from me for morgs. he's gone to great trouble to get involved through the community and is a strong contributor to real free software advocacy in SA, much of which is part of ubuntu
08:16 < morgs> Thanks sabdfl!
08:17 < elmo> +1
08:17 < mako> +1 from me, very very easy
08:17 < mako> thanks morgs
08:17 < morgs> Thanks guys :-)
08:17 < Seveas> congrats!
08:17 < highvoltage> morgs: congrats and ^5!
08:17 < Seveas> _MMA_, you're up next
08:17 < _MMA_> \m/
08:17 < _MMA_> Hello all. I get asked about the nick so Ill say it now. _MMA_=MetalMusicAddict. \m/ My real name is Cory Kontros. I live in Raleigh, N.C. USA. where I am a stay-at-home Dad. Here is my Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~coryisatm and my WIKI page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CKontros.
08:17 < _MMA_> I am a trained audio engineer (live sound mostly) and full-time linux user since Warty. Dabbled with Red Hat and Fedora before that.
08:17 < _MMA_> I helped found and now manage the Ubuntu Studio project (http://ubuntustudio.org). I also do support as much as I can on the Ubuntu Forums and maintain several HOW-TOs. (listed on my WIKI)
08:17 < _MMA_> We are currently building our disks for our 1st release set to come out alongside the other *buntus. Our full website along with support forums will go live at the same time.
08:17 < morgs> highvoltage: Thanks!
08:17 < sabdfl> welcome morgs
08:17 < Seveas> morgs, please join the ubuntumembers team on launchpad
08:18 < morgs> Seveas: done
08:18 < sabdfl> very happy to ee ubuntu studio under way!
08:18 < mako> _MMA_: you and jono must have a lot to talk about
08:18 < joejaxx> _MMA_: has been doing alot of work bring multimedia together into ubuntu through Ubuntu Studio
08:18 < sabdfl> Seveas: as an aside, is there a team of ircp ops that you think should be "delegated members"?
08:18  * MagicFab cheers for Ubuntu dads
08:19 < sabdfl> Seveas: let's discuss that when elmo's questions are addressed
08:19 < Seveas> sabdfl, ack
08:19 < _MMA_> mako: Yes. We met at UDS-MTV and talked alot about "Crushing Death Metal". :)
08:19 < joejaxx> _MMA_: allowing more users to use Ubuntu for multimedia creation though consolidation of multimedia apps
08:19  * highvoltage thinks that stay-at-home-dads sounds like they could be good edubuntu contributors ;)
08:19 < joejaxx> :)
08:19 < _MMA_> I also test Jokosher when I can.
08:19 < sabdfl> i get a steady flood of requests for an "Ubuntu Media center", so the Ubuntu Studio work will certianly be a great step in that direction
08:20 < LaserJock> I've worked quite a bit with _MMA_ and he's definately a top notch guy and a valuable part of the broader Ubuntu community
08:20 < LjL> oh, also MythTV-in-a-single-command (if that's what "Ubuntu Media Center" would be, i suppose so...) would certainly be nice to have :)
08:21  * mako nods to LaserJock 
08:21 < AstralJava> _MMA_ has been a strong leader for our young team, and will be valuable in making US rock for years to come. :)
08:21 < joejaxx> :)
08:21 < sharms> ubuntustudiop s focused on creating media, not being a media center, if I understand it correctly
08:21 < AstralJava> (practiced that all week)
08:21 < sabdfl> _MMA_: what's the roadmap for ubuntu studio, could you give us a rundown?
08:21 < _MMA_> sharms: Yes.
08:21 < sabdfl> and who are the most active contributors?
08:22 < _MMA_> Actually I think we've been luck to build a team that is pretty constant and equal in their involvement.
08:22 < Seveas> (brb)
08:22 < _MMA_> We are very green and work alot with -MOTU as well.
08:23 < LaserJock> I'd like to just mention that _MMA_ has been very good about dealing with upstreams and the very complex world of multimedia software licensing ;-)
08:23 < _MMA_> We wouldnt be half as far without them.
08:24 < _MMA_> Yes. We also feel its important to keep in close with major upstreams like Ardour for example.
08:24 < _MMA_> They have been great at trying to work with our schedules.
08:24 < sabdfl> _MMA_: how do upstreams related to you as a part of ubuntu?
08:25 < _MMA_> For the most part great. It was nice to hear that alot of them use Ubuntu.
08:25 < _MMA_> Some Suite for example.
08:25 < _MMA_> And like I said Paul Davis (las) has been great as well.
08:26 < sabdfl> ok. from my side, i've watched _MMA_ slowly build his team and momentum around ubuntu studio over the course of several months
08:26 < sabdfl> so i';m happy with the sustained and substantial commitment req
08:26 < sabdfl> also, been happy with the way he's built a community, and represented ubuntu in other communities
08:26 < sabdfl> so +1 from me
08:27 < mako> yes, definitely
08:27 < mako> a +1 from me as well
08:27 < luisbg> hello all, I'm an other ubuntu studio guy
08:27 < mako> luisbg: don
08:27 < mako> dont' waste time, testify, testify!
08:27 < elmo> +1
08:27 < _MMA_> That was a big deal for the project. To work within the Ubuntu system.
08:27 < luisbg> I have no vote rights but I will definitely give a +1
08:27 < mako> _MMA_: the wiki page was a little thin but its all there with a little digging
08:28 < Seveas> _MMA_, congratulations, welcome aboard!
08:28 < joejaxx> _MMA_: congratulations :D
08:28 < Seveas> MagicFab, you're up with the WikiLicensing bit
08:28 < _MMA_> mako: Ill beef it up a little. ;)
08:28 < MagicFab> Ok
08:28 < mako> _MMA_: i'd appreciate it
08:28 < mako> i already promised to beef my up
08:28 < mako> Seveas: is this the last item
08:28 < mako> we're sort of going out of order now
08:28 < Seveas> mako, almost (one more)
08:29 < MagicFab> Let me know.
08:29 < Seveas> mako, MagicFab asked for this to be the last item due to a personal emergency
08:29 < mako> ah, right
08:29 < Seveas> but the very last item is mine, so he's up now :)
08:29 < mako> Seveas: ok :)
08:29 < MagicFab> ok, I am going for it ;)
08:29 < MagicFab> So to sum it up, for a newcomer browsing the current wiki
08:29 < luisbg> _MMA_, my congrats!
08:29 < MagicFab> and wanting to use / contribute to the content, the licensing is not clear
08:29 < Seveas> _MMA_, please join the ubuntumembers team
08:29 < _MMA_> Awesome \m/
08:30 < _MMA_> Seveas: Done.
08:30 < Seveas> <F5>
08:30 < MagicFab> (C) 2005 Canonical is indicated in the footer, and the "Legal" link requires authentication (Bug # 94212)
08:31 < sabdfl> ok
08:31 < sabdfl> that's all the members
08:31  * sladen thought Ubugtu recently got a bugfix to not change the topic during a meeting
08:31 < sabdfl> we just had a mail from someone asking the CC to look into something in the forums
08:32 < sabdfl> mako, elmo, want to discuss that now, or next time?
08:32 < MagicFab> Clear licensing for existing and new content is important for community and documentation information, although most docs are being moved to help.ubuntu.com as I understand it. This move hasn't been made clear either from wiki.ubuntu.com. So my agenda point was mostly to follow up/ask about this, as even commercial support providers rely on this at some point and it creates or will create legal problems.
08:32 < sabdfl> http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2326234
08:32 < LaserJock> wasn't it decided during the help wiki licensing that we needed a spec for wiki.u.c?
08:32 < sabdfl> i'm basically supportive of mdke on wiki licensing
08:33 < Seveas> sladen, bugfix broke it completely and he didn't ever change the topic. Reverted and on my to-do list
08:33 < MagicFab> Spec is here: Spec is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WikiLicensing
08:33 < sabdfl> i thought we were all set, then it got hugely complex suddenly
08:33 < mdke> MagicFab: that specification applies to the documentation wiki, rather than the development wiki
08:33 < mako> sabdfl: i already replied
08:33 < mako> sabdfl: lets handle it later
08:34 < mako> sabdfl: did you not get my email response?
08:34 < sabdfl> ok
08:34 < sabdfl> mako: not yet
08:34 < mdke> MagicFab: we decided to put the development wiki question on hold for now, as it raises some more complex issues
08:34 < mako> weird, i sent it like 15 minutes ago
08:34 < MagicFab> mdke, that spec was the initial work, it mentions OUtstanding issues including the main wiki licensing (or lack of it)
08:34 < Seveas> mdke, do we have a summary of the issues?
08:35 < sabdfl> cc, i think we should lay this question to rest asap
08:35 < mdke> MagicFab: yes, I know what it says ;)
08:35 < sabdfl> i'vebeen remiss in dealingwith it
08:35 < mdke> Seveas: not that I know of
08:35 < sabdfl> it just seemed to turn into a gordian knot
08:35 < mdke> just to clarify on the documentation wiki - I will be sending out an email soon to implement the spec for that
08:35 < sabdfl> i'd like to propose we delegate to the doc team and ask them to make a specific proposal to the community
08:36 < sabdfl> ok
08:36 < mako> right, the help wiki should be handled
08:36 < mako> and i'd love to do the same thing for the main wiki if we think it's possible
08:36 < mdke> for the development wiki, my feeling is that the development team needs to have a strong input on that
08:36 < mako> but seeing it threshed out and discussed aroudn a spec would be ideal
08:36 < sabdfl> i have one issue, which is to beable to use content Canonical funds in both the wiki and in training material, so i think we will end up with "the wiki", a formal doc wiki, a dev wiki, a training wiki.... with slightly different issues
08:36 < MagicFab> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RecentChanges gives a good idea of the content being edited there, if that helps
08:37 < sabdfl> i think we should have the simplest, most open and most transparent approach possible for the main wiki
08:37 < mako> sabdfl: what license is the training material under?
08:37 < sabdfl> mako: none, yet
08:37 < sabdfl> it's being privately funded and developed
08:37 < sabdfl> i would like to have one part of that under a CC licence as an experiment
08:37 < MagicFab> Dual licensing could also be considered.
08:37 < sabdfl> so we can evaluate cost / benefit and decide if it's worth doing for everything
08:38 < mdke> let's begin a separate specification about the main wiki
08:38 < mdke> I hope that revisiting the documentation wiki specification isn't necessary, and I can go ahead with that
08:38 < sabdfl> i do think mdke is uniquely qualified, having both community and legal credentials
08:38 < mako> sabdfl: right
08:38 < MagicFab> mdke, I am fine with the docs licensing.
08:38 < mako> i tend to agree, and i like cc by-sa a lot
08:39 < sabdfl> mdke: i'm not familiar with the doc's licensing
08:39 < mdke> sabdfl: sorry?
08:39 < LaserJock> almost all shipped docs are CC-BY-SA 2.5
08:40 < LaserJock> help.ubuntu.com/community wiki will be the same according to the approved spec, right?
08:40 < mako> right
08:40 < mako> LaserJock: that's right
08:40 < sabdfl> mako: got your mail reply re forums
08:40 < LaserJock> however, wiki.ubuntu.com can be used for a variety of uses and variety of "downstreams"
08:40 < sabdfl> i'm happy with cc-by-sa
08:41 < MagicFab> sabdfl, publishing part or all of the training docs in an open license would also help have them translated/adapted by marketplace community members
08:41 < LaserJock> so it'd be nice to have a pretty loose license
08:41 < MagicFab> but let's focus on the main wiki licensing :)
08:41 < mako> LaserJock: lets not discuss this now, rather in the spec
08:41 < Seveas> mako++
08:42 < sabdfl> MagicFab: i understand that, but i have to find a way to make it sustainable, or those docs WILL go out of date very quickly
08:42 < mako> we're 20 minutes away from our third hour, so if we don't have anythign to decide on now
08:42 < LaserJock> mako: fine by me, but the agenda item is here
08:42 < sabdfl> mako: +1
08:42 < Seveas> mako, we're on 2:12 now, we started 30 minutes late :)
08:42 < sabdfl> are we wrapped for the night?
08:42 < Seveas> sabdfl, almost
08:42 < Seveas> datetime of next meeting
08:42 < mako> i'm going to suggest we put this aside until we have a spec :)
08:42 < MagicFab> sabdfl, delayed, dual licensing could accomodate that...
08:42 < mako> MagicFab: i'd like to involved in those discussions
08:42 < mako> MagicFab: so point me to a spec i can subscribe to and i will
08:43 < MagicFab> mako, will do
08:43 < sladen> and people pay for paper.
08:43 < LaserJock> MagicFab: and let the doc team know too
08:43  * mako echos LaserJock's comment
08:43 < mako> Seveas: two weeks from today?
08:43 < mdke> mako: I'm happy to be involved in a specification on the development wiki, provided that the development team has good input
08:43 < Seveas> Does april 3 14:00 UTC sound reasonable to everyone?
08:44 < mako> today was 18:00, can we do it earlier.. 11/12UTC?
08:44 < Seveas> sure
08:44 < Seveas> if you can wak up that early :)
08:44 < mako> sure
08:44 < Seveas> ok, 11UTC then?
08:44 < sabdfl> mako: new forest?
08:44 < Seveas> (beware of DST in europe)
08:44  * mako nods to mdke 
08:44 < elmo> anytime after 9am UTC is fine by me
08:45 < sabdfl> me too
08:45 < MagicFab> LaserJock, will do. Tx. to all
08:45 < Seveas> ok, settled then
08:45 < sabdfl> but PICK A DAY WITH NO SNOW
08:45 < Seveas> thanks all for participating!
08:45 < mako> new forest?
08:45 < mako> i'm confused
08:45 < sabdfl> thanks all - seveas for steering and nudging lp too
08:45 < sabdfl> welcome new members
08:45 < sabdfl> mako: lots of new leaves
08:45 < Seveas> all new members have seen lp love, wiki will be done asap
08:46  * mako is a little slow
08:46 < sabdfl> https://beta.launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers/+members
08:46 < mako> there's been a birthday party in my office during this meeting and i'm on my second glass of grappa :)
08:46 < sabdfl> 274 members!
08:46 < Seveas> sabdfl, elmo, mako: I'll also address elmo's concerns by mail, with a CC to the members of the IRC council
08:46 < sabdfl> 226 direct - we need to pick up the pace on delegation
08:46 < mako> sabdfl: seriously :)
08:47 < sabdfl> but still well done to everyone for helping this project find its rhythm
08:47 < sabdfl> Seveas: thanks
08:47 < sabdfl> night all
}}
