{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=12&day=02&year=2013&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Dec 2nd 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: community
** short week
** catch up from time off
** pending updates
** work items
** patch piloting
** mdeslaur:
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** ruby1.8 demotion in trusty
** patch piloting
** evaluate tls1.2 in openssl on 12.04
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor
*** testing for IPC
*** various parser improvements
** tyhicks
** yama on touch images
** user data encryption work items (ie, benchmarking)
** jjohanson
** !AppArmor
*** IPC kernel this week
** sarnold
** weekly role: triage
** MIR audit
** !AppArmor patch review
** chrisccouson
** finishing up bug:1214049
** oxide packaging done, but FTBFS. Fixing those issues. Will upload to 
** review oSoMoN's navigation API which will land soon
** figure out public ppa with arm builds
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-12-02-16.33.html
