{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Maverick development (jib)
* release status (ttx)
* The road to 10.10.10 release (ttx)
** Natty preparation (jib)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
** SRU 649591 (mountall spins eating cpu when 'nobootwait' option exists in fstab followed by a comma)
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===
===== Meeting Actions =====
** ACTION: mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
** ACTION: smoser to get skaet info on how to publish EC2 images
** ACTION:  Everyone to celebrate the 10.10.10 release in their own unique ways

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
* jiboumans to send an email to ubuntu-server@ and/or blog post for call for ideas
** DONE (during the course of the meeting)
** mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
** ACTION (held over to next week)

===== Maverick development (jib) =====
** jib: winding down, ttx in London for release sprint

===== release status, the road to 10.10.10 release (ttx) =====
** ttx: nothing critical, a few FTBFS, nothing queued against the release, ISO testing to begin soon
** ACTION: smoser to get skaet info on how to publish EC2 images

===== Natty preparation (jib) =====
** jib: <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-NattyIdeaPool]]</nowiki> is open, spend some time next week brainstorming

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
** hggdh: we will be dropping regression-potential

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====
** jjohansen: ill, not at meeting

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====
** sommer: not around

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0) =====
** kim0: not around

===== Open Discussion =====
** SRU 649591 (mountall spins eating cpu when 'nobootwait' option exists in fstab followed by a comma)
** kirkland sponsored smoser's proposal
** ACTION:  Everyone to celebrate the 10.10.10 release in their own unique ways

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====
** Tuesday 2010-10-12 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 14th at 18:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:00] <kirkland> #startmeeting
[19:00] <Daviey> o/
[19:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:00. The chair is kirkland.
[19:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:00] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:00] <kirkland> hmm, i don't see any outstanding actions at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[19:01] <kirkland> in which case, if there are none, I suppose we'll just move on
[19:01]  * kirkland checks log
[19:01] <kirkland> ah, here are a couple
[19:01] <kirkland> --> SpamapS to chase drizzle in maverick decide between "broken" and "removed" with slight possibility of "beta"
[19:01] <kirkland> SpamapS: ?
[19:02] <SpamapS> sorry
[19:02] <SpamapS> drizzle is out of maverick
[19:02] <kirkland> SpamapS: carry over to next week?
[19:02] <SpamapS> removed earlier this week
[19:02] <kirkland> SpamapS: alrighty, done?
[19:02] <SpamapS> In discussing the beta period with their developers, its better this way. :)
[19:02] <SpamapS> kirkland: yes done
[19:02] <kirkland> thanks
[19:02] <kirkland> --> jiboumans to send an email to ubuntu-server@ and/or blog post for call for ideas
[19:03] <kirkland> jiboumans: ?
[19:03] <jiboumans> kirkland: not done </shame>
[19:03] <kirkland> jiboumans: carry over to next week?
[19:03] <smoser> o/
[19:03] <jiboumans> kirkland: i'll do so today
[19:03] <kirkland> jiboumans: k
[19:03] <kirkland> [ACTION] jiboumans to send an email to ubuntu-server@ and/or blog post for call for ideas
[19:03] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jiboumans to send an email to ubuntu-server@ and/or blog post for call for ideas
[19:03] <kirkland> --> mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
[19:03] <kirkland> mathiaz: ?
[19:03] <mathiaz> kirkland: carry over
[19:03] <mathiaz> kirkland: I'll do it later today
[19:04] <mathiaz> (just to copy jiboumans )
[19:04] <kirkland> mathiaz: alrighty
[19:04] <kirkland> [ACTION] (carryover) (carryover) mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
[19:04] <MootBot> ACTION received:  (carryover) (carryover) mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
[19:04]  * kirkland worries about a buffer overflow on that one :-)
[19:05] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Maverick development - jiboumans
[19:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development - jiboumans
[19:05] <jiboumans> not much to say right now; we're winding down
[19:05] <zul> yay!
[19:05] <kirkland> release status -- ttx
[19:05] <jiboumans> ttx is at the release spring in london while i'm detained in the US
[19:05] <jiboumans> all his :)
[19:06] <ttx> Mostly in good shape, nothing critical in the daily bug triage
[19:06] <ttx> a couple of FTBFS... one in likewise-open I fixed on Monday, the other is axis2c
[19:06] <ttx> We'll probably postpone that one since it's such a PITA to get right
[19:06]  * Daviey screams
[19:07] <ttx> Daviey: do you agree ?
[19:07] <kirkland> ttx: yeah, i think i've looked at that one, if its the one i'm thinking of :-/
[19:07] <ttx> kirkland: yes, THAT one.
[19:07] <Daviey> ttx, yes - doko also inestigating
[19:07] <kirkland> ttx: ugh
[19:07] <Daviey> investigating*
[19:07] <ttx> The other is Bug 653154
[19:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 653154 in dovecot (Ubuntu Maverick) "package mail-stack-delivery (not installed) failed to install/upgrade: subprocess new pre-installation script returned error exit status 1" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/653154
[19:07] <ttx> but is about to be debunked as "not-reproduced"
[19:07] <ttx> Daviey: right ?
[19:08] <Daviey> yah
[19:08] <Daviey> will do shortly
[19:08] <ttx> so we don't have any fix queued for release now.
[19:08] <ttx> (as of now)
[19:08] <ttx> next topic :)
[19:08] <Daviey> \o/
[19:08] <kirkland> ttx: thanks
[19:08] <kirkland> [TOPIC] The road to 10.10.10 release (ttx)
[19:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  The road to 10.10.10 release (ttx)
[19:08] <SpamapS> Actualy I think  bug 653154 might have a duplicate
[19:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 653154 in dovecot (Ubuntu Maverick) "package mail-stack-delivery (not installed) failed to install/upgrade: subprocess new pre-installation script returned error exit status 1" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/653154
[19:08] <kirkland> ttx: looking forward?
[19:09] <ttx> ISOs should hit tomorrow.
[19:09] <ttx> so it will be ISO testing season again
[19:09]  * hggdh is happy
[19:09] <ttx> and hopefully we'll be set by Friday
[19:09] <smoser> ttx, are there bugs not included yet that are targetted ?
[19:10] <smoser> (probably I should know the link to such things, but shame on me)
[19:10] <ttx> smoser: the only other bug in the list that we might consider is Bug 617496
[19:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 617496 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "'stop eucalyptus' should also stop all -publication services" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/617496
[19:10] <ttx> the url is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/MaverickReleaseStatus
[19:10] <ttx> please make sure to raise any bug you stumble upon in daily triage
[19:10] <kirkland> ttx: okay, so every should prime their ISO cache today using TestDrive, and just incrementally sync the diff tomorrow, right?  ;-)
[19:11] <ttx> that would critically affect maverick
[19:11] <SpamapS> ttx: bug 653362 Is I think the duplicate
[19:11] <ttx> kirkland: yes :) unfortunately my laptop is utterly slow, I need to switch to onf of those SSDs
[19:11] <kirkland> ttx: thanks
[19:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 653362 in dovecot (Ubuntu) "package mail-stack-delivery 1:1.2.12-1ubuntu7 failed to install/upgrade: subprocess new pre-installation script returned error exit status 1" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/653362
[19:11] <inkvizitor68sl> hmmm... i hope there i will get answer...) what i have to do to be able to receive new CDs (better - in enough amount to share it).
[19:11] <ttx> so daviey will bring a couple spare laptops so that we do ISO testing in London
[19:12] <kirkland> noted, ttx is looking for an SSD donation
[19:12] <SpamapS> ttx: and bug 653152
[19:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 653152 in dovecot (Ubuntu) "package mail-stack-delivery 1:1.2.12-1ubuntu7 failed to install/upgrade: subprocess new pre-installation script returned error exit status 1 (dup-of: 653362)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/653152
[19:12] <ttx> Daviey: looks like it's a bit reproductible after all.
[19:12] <mathiaz> Daviey: are you heading to the release sprint as well?
[19:12] <SpamapS> ttx: They may not have showed up on the radar because I marked it as Medium
[19:12] <ttx> SpamapS: volunteering to clear it out before we rool ISOs tomorrow ?
[19:12] <Daviey> ttx: oh joy
[19:12] <kirkland> ttx: alrighty -- anything else 10.10.10 worthy?
[19:12] <Daviey> mathiaz: some of it.
[19:13] <ttx> we need someone in US TZ to take care of it
[19:13] <ttx> ideally before we spin ISOs :)
[19:13] <SpamapS> ttx: I'm not entirely familiar with dovecot, but I'm happy to attack it if nobody else wants it. :)
[19:13] <Daviey> rocking!
[19:13] <ttx> mathiaz: ^or you :)
[19:13] <SpamapS> Will need somebody to upload.
[19:14] <kirkland> SpamapS: i can sponsor
[19:14] <SpamapS> Don't we have some people in .jp ?
[19:14] <kirkland> SpamapS: ASAP, though
[19:14] <ttx> SpamapS: mathiaz works on JP tz
[19:14] <SpamapS> kirkland: yeah I'll get on it right away
[19:14] <kirkland> alright, let's take any specific bug discussion to #ubuntu-server
[19:14] <Daviey> SpamapS: i had a Chinese the other day, if that helps?
[19:14] <kirkland> and keep focused here
[19:14] <kirkland> ttx: anything more from you on this topic?
[19:14] <ttx> kirkland: no. Questions ?
[19:15] <ttx> smoser: ideally we would prepublish cloud images early
[19:15] <kirkland> ttx: is this going to be the best Ubuntu Server Release ever?
[19:15] <ttx> smoser: so that you don't have to be on call on Sunday :)
[19:15] <smoser> ttx, well, yes, and ideally with the correct labels
[19:15] <smoser> :)
[19:15] <ttx> kirkland: I hope it will be the quietest.
[19:15] <kirkland> ttx: awesome
[19:16] <smoser> i'll get that all taken care of and send cjwatson instructions on what to do. including a phone number.
[19:16] <kirkland> moving along ....
[19:16] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Natty preparation (jib)
[19:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty preparation (jib)
[19:16] <ttx> and that Cloud10/42 will help show that to the worls
[19:16] <ttx> d
[19:16] <jiboumans> Slowly gearing up for Natty. Like last week, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/NattyIdeaPool is live and we already have quite a few ideas. If you haven't contributed yours yet, please do so this week. On Friday, we'll be taking a snapshot of this and start making a rudimentary UDS planning.
[19:16] <cjwatson> smoser: I will not be working on Sunday, so ...
[19:16] <jiboumans> as always if you'll be at UDS and already have some topics you'll know you'll work on, feel free to file the blueprints already
[19:16] <cjwatson> smoser: contact skaet
[19:16] <smoser> ooh... then we need a RT for skaet to have access to nectarine
[19:17] <jiboumans> after release, the server team will spend some serious time on setting up our UDS plans & sessions
[19:17] <kirkland> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/NattyIdeaPool
[19:17] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/NattyIdeaPool
[19:17] <jiboumans> that's all there's to say right nwo i think -- any questions?
[19:17] <smoser> [ACTION]: smoser get RT open for skaet to have access to nectarine for publishing UEC images
[19:17] <smoser> [ACTION]: smoser to get skaet info on how to publish EC2 images
[19:18] <kirkland> jiboumans: might we devote some time in next week's meeting to such open ideas/brainstorming?
[19:18] <jiboumans> absolutely
[19:18] <zul> heh some people already started
[19:18] <jiboumans> right now it's a braindump area: add whatever comes up
[19:19] <kirkland> cool
[19:19] <ttx> In the weeks following release, please also remember to keep up the triaging effort, in case our first maverick users hit a major issue, we need to be ready to fix it
[19:19] <jiboumans> kirkland: i've also just sent out the call for ideas/blueprints so you can mark that done
[19:19] <kirkland> ttx: agreed
[19:19] <kirkland> jiboumans: noted
[19:20] <kirkland> jiboumans: anything else on this topic?
[19:20] <jiboumans> not from me
[19:20] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:20] <hggdh> yeah
[19:21] <hggdh> we sent our proposal for regression-* tags to -devel. If no complains, we will be implementing it soon (after 10.10.10)
[19:21] <kirkland> hggdh: cool, what does that mean?
[19:22] <hggdh> we will be dropping regression-potential
[19:22] <hggdh> and using regression-release even for a development release
[19:22] <kirkland> ah
[19:22] <kirkland> understood
[19:22] <hggdh> -potential does not seem to gain us much (if at all), apart from more work
[19:23] <hggdh> and... I will start on euca testing for release as soon as the ISO is published
[19:23] <kirkland> hggdh: okay, anything else?
[19:23] <kirkland> any questions for QA?
[19:23] <Daviey> \o/
[19:24] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:24] <kirkland> jjohansen is not feeling well today
[19:24] <kirkland> and it appears that jj-afk is away
[19:24] <smoser> so lets move on there.
[19:25] <kirkland> if there are any kernel related issues, please note them now ...
[19:25] <kirkland> and we'll take them up offline ....
[19:25] <kirkland> going once
[19:25] <kirkland> going twice
[19:25] <kirkland> gone.
[19:25] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:25] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:26] <kirkland> sommer doesn't appear to be around either ....
[19:26] <kirkland> going once
[19:26] <Daviey> :(
[19:27] <kirkland> going twice
[19:27] <kirkland> gone.
[19:27] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:27] <kirkland> kim0 doesn't appear to around ...
[19:27]  * kirkland misses his friends
[19:28]  * ttx hugs hggdh for being around :)
[19:28] <kirkland> anything to mention, Community related?
[19:28]  * hggdh blushes
[19:28] <hggdh> I have been chatting with kim0
[19:28] <kirkland> going once
[19:28] <smoser> hggdh, are you implying that he's around, just hiding from us.  thanks.
[19:28] <hggdh> about community involvement. We intend to get together and discuss this on UDS
[19:29] <kirkland> hggdh: yes, good
[19:29] <hggdh> smoser: actually it was last week :-)
[19:29] <kirkland> anyone planning a release party?
[19:29] <kirkland> (that's community related...)
[19:29] <zul> ill be having turkey that day
[19:29] <kirkland> or planning to attend a release party?
[19:30] <SpamapS> There's a release party in Hollywood that I'll be attending on Monday evening
[19:30] <RoAkSoAx> o/
[19:30] <SpamapS> nobody wants to go on Sunday ;)
[19:30] <kirkland> SpamapS: oh?  cool ... I'll be in SoCal next week, I think
[19:30] <SpamapS> http://www.borderstylo.com/posts/205-company-culture-at-border-stylo
[19:30] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.borderstylo.com/posts/205-company-culture-at-border-stylo
[19:30] <SpamapS> At their offices
[19:30] <kirkland> [ACTION] Everyone to celebrate the 10.10.10 release in their own unique ways
[19:30] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Everyone to celebrate the 10.10.10 release in their own unique ways
[19:30] <SpamapS> :)
[19:30] <ttx> I've been discussing server subcommunities at Open World Forum
[19:31] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:31] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:31] <kirkland> anything else?
[19:31] <ttx> i.e. groups specializing in the maintenance of subsystems like "directory" or "windows integration"
[19:31] <smoser> i had an item on open discussion agenda.
[19:31] <RoAkSoAx> or cluster :)
[19:31] <ttx> RoAkSoAx: yes ! though this one is alive and kicking already
[19:32] <smoser> SRU 649591 (mountall spins eating cpu when 'nobootwait' option exists in fstab followed by a comma)
[19:32] <smoser> bug
[19:32] <RoAkSoAx> ttx: we still need UEC HA Clustering though
[19:32] <smoser> bug 649591
[19:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 649591 in mountall (Ubuntu Lucid) "mountall spins eating cpu when 'nobootwait' option exists in fstab followed by a comma" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/649591
[19:32] <SpamapS> I'd really like to see cluster stack get some attention. Building a redundant database server or load balancer on ubuntu should be easy.
[19:32] <ttx> I've seen widespread interest in that, so I hope we'll pull that off
[19:32] <RoAkSoAx> SpamapS: that's easy... the hard part will be the itnegration with UEC xD
[19:33] <ttx> (been talking to huats and RevolutionLinux guys)
[19:33] <mathiaz> ttx: with whom have you been discussin the topics at openworld?
[19:33] <ttx> mathiaz: I read your mind and answer your question before it's asked.
[19:33] <RoAkSoAx> ttx: mjeanson from revolutionlinux is interested in the cluster since they work in Ubuntu
[19:34] <smoser> ok.. my bug. I need bug 649591 back to lucid.  I've got a proposed pull, but need sponsoring.  can i get someone to please sponsor for me.
[19:34] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 649591 in mountall (Ubuntu Lucid) "mountall spins eating cpu when 'nobootwait' option exists in fstab followed by a comma" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/649591
[19:34] <ttx> smoser: yes you can.
[19:35] <ttx> smoser: maybe not me, but you should get someone
[19:35] <smoser> thats why i'm asking.
[19:35]  * ttx needs to pack tonight
[19:35] <smoser> mathiaz, zul, kirkland, one of you, please ?
[19:35] <zul> sponsoring mountall makes me nervous
[19:36] <kirkland> smoser: i don't mind sponsoring
[19:36] <RoAkSoAx> btw... after this UDS the ubuntu-server package set will be up and running right?
[19:36] <smoser> great.  its not my patch, its cjwatson. so you don't even really have to trust me.
[19:36] <kirkland> smoser: poke me in another channel shortly and let's walk through it
[19:36] <kirkland> smoser: hmm, so why didn't cjwatson upload it?
[19:37] <smoser> he uploaded to maverick.
[19:37] <ttx> I'd say, he is a bit busy with maverick release.
[19:37] <smoser> i am just pushing for lucid (and 'now' rather than later)
[19:37] <kirkland> RoAkSoAx: you mean the ubuntu-server package set?
[19:37] <kirkland> smoser: ah, okay
[19:37] <RoAkSoAx> kirkland: yes
[19:37] <kirkland> smoser: yeah, grab me in #ubuntu-server after the meeting
[19:38] <kirkland> RoAkSoAx: i'm not sure who owns that to-do....
[19:38] <kirkland> ttx: do you know?
[19:38] <ttx> kirkland: that would be mathiaz
[19:38] <ttx> it's part of the deffered items in mavercik-server-seed-review
[19:38] <ttx> deferred, even
[19:38] <kirkland> mathiaz: eta on ubuntu-server package set?
[19:38] <mathiaz> after UDS
[19:38] <kirkland> ttx: mathiaz: cool
[19:38] <RoAkSoAx> cool
[19:38] <kirkland> alright, i think that's about it ...
[19:39] <mathiaz> I'll probably schedule a session at UDS to figure out how to review the best
[19:39] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:39] <kirkland> Tuesday 2010-10-12 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:39] <kirkland> see you soon!
[19:39] <mathiaz> it's a 350+ package list
[19:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: yeah, review at UDS is a good idea
[19:39] <kirkland> adios, all
[19:40] <kirkland> #endmeeting
</pre>
