{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
(15:56:57) mdz: good evening
(15:57:11) zul: afternoon
(15:58:06) ajmitch: morning
(15:58:17) mdz: good UTEvening
(15:58:19) pitti [n=pitti@ubuntu/member/pitti] entered the room.
(15:58:59) mdz: imbrandon: are you here?
(15:59:32) mjg59: mdz: I don't quite make it 20:00 UTC yet
(15:59:58) mdz: mjg59: about 1 minute 20 away by my clock
(16:00:06) crimsun [n=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] entered the room.
(16:01:32) mdz: reviewing the applicant lists, it seems we have imbrandon for -core-dev and thelinuxfr for -dev
(16:01:44) mdz: but I don't think either is present
(16:01:52) mjg59: Give them a few minutes?
(16:01:59) mjg59: I don't think we've got any other business
(16:02:02) mdz: is there anyone present who is here to apply for development team membership?
(16:02:50) mdz: mjg59: I missed the previous meeting due to holidays; assuming one happened, anything I should know about?
(16:03:01) mjg59: mdz: Nope
(16:04:56) mdz: the agenda is empty, so I'm going to idle and continue with other work, but be nearby for the next hour or so in case something appears.  please nudge me if so
(16:05:11) mdz: Keybuk and sabdfl are both otherwise engaged, for the record
(16:05:24) toma [n=toma@84-53-90-221.wxdsl.nl] entered the room.
(16:06:29) imbrandon: mdz sorry
(16:06:32) imbrandon: i am late
(16:06:40) mdz: imbrandon: no worries
(16:07:36) imbrandon: soo am i up now ?
(16:07:43) mdz: imbrandon: Yes. Would you like to tell us about your application for -core-dev?
(16:07:56) raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] entered the room.
(16:07:59) imbrandon: sure ...
(16:08:22) mdz: mjg59: (ping in case you decided to idle as well)
(16:08:26) mjg59: mdz: Here
(16:08:52) imbrandon: oh wow , ok my klipper is not letting me paste so i will do this by hand
(16:09:19) imbrandon: sorry , wiki with full explanation at http://wiki.kubuntu.org/imbrandon
(16:09:29) seth|lappy [n=seth@ubuntu/member/sethkinast] entered the room.
(16:09:41) imbrandon: and i have been working as a MOTU and member of the community for a while now and concentrate on
(16:10:19) imbrandon: the "gadgets" of ubuntu like ipods and digital cameras making sure they work well OOTB as much as possible
(16:10:36) mdz: imbrandon: according to Launchpad, you've been a member of ubuntu-dev for a bit over one month now.  is that correct?
(16:10:54) imbrandon: yea, just over a month or so
(16:11:27) imbrandon: i brought Riddell tonio and raphink ( and crimsun ) to cheer for me too
(16:11:33) imbrandon: ( if they made it )
(16:11:41) imbrandon: they all work with me daily
(16:11:44) mdz: imbrandon: but you've been doing packaging work for longer than that?  I see you maintain at least one package in Debian as well
(16:11:54) mdz: raphink is here at least
(16:12:01) raphink: sorry to come only now
(16:12:16) Nafallo: crimsun did just speak on #launchpad.
(16:12:17) imbrandon: yes sir i package apt-mirror in debian
(16:12:27) imbrandon: and manitain it
(16:12:53) imbrandon: and try to work with debian as much as possible ( but we are ahead on most things versiuon wise in KDE )
(16:13:05) imbrandon: but hopefully that wont be that way for long
(16:13:38) mdz: are you a DD, or are your Debian uploads sponsored by someone (if so, who?)
(16:14:08) mdz: and who generally sponsors your Ubuntu uploads?
(16:14:14) mdz: (to main)
(16:14:19) imbrandon: anibal is my DD sponsor ( plus i'm interviewing for a company atm too that a few DD's work at that also handle KDE )
(16:14:34) imbrandon: Riddell, and tonino do 90%  of my uploads to main
(16:14:50) imbrandon: i mostly work on amarok and kubuntu default settings
(16:15:10) imbrandon: but i have been known to touch all of kde when needed
(16:15:18) imbrandon: ( oir ubuntu for that matter )
(16:16:07) mjg59: raphink: So how have you found working with imbrandon?
(16:16:09) imbrandon: i work very closely with the konversation and amarok teams upstream also
(16:16:21) raphink: mjg59: he's been doing great work
(16:16:37) mjg59: raphink: What areas have you been working with him on?
(16:16:37) raphink: I can tell :)
(16:16:53) raphink: tonio is not here but he told me lately that he's very happy with imbrandon
(16:17:01) raphink: esp. as we are not so numerous on Kubuntu lately
(16:17:09) raphink: mjg59: packaging mostly I think
(16:17:21) raphink: not recently, but I've looked at his packages in the past and they were very good
(16:17:23) imbrandon: heh yea our numbers are small but we get the job done
(16:18:04) mdz: imbrandon: I've noticed that quite a few of your uploads also incorporate changes from other people.  what tools are you using to coordinate this work?
(16:18:17) imbrandon: i also tend to sponsor a few uploads too and am active on ubunutu-universe-sponsors
(16:18:23) mdz: is there a revision control repository for, e.g. amarok?
(16:19:00) imbrandon: mdz yes and no , we do most of our colab directly on IRC and there is a invite only amarok developers list i participte in
(16:19:21) imbrandon: ( riddell and hobbsee are both members too )
(16:19:23) imbrandon: iirc
(16:19:35) mdz: imbrandon: so they email patches to you and you apply them to the package?
(16:19:36) imbrandon: as for mergin mostly bzr and svn
(16:19:55) imbrandon: in the case of amarok yes, with konversation its all svn
(16:20:23) mdz: imbrandon: it's interesting that the amarok list is invite-only.  do you feel that works well for them?
(16:20:54) imbrandon: well its mostly for spam reasons i think ( and so it dosent turn into a support list ) but anyone can get invited if they ask
(16:21:00) imbrandon: sanely in the -dev chan
(16:21:37) imbrandon: and the packagers tend to get the patches and version before the general public so we can have it ready for the distro on release day also
(16:21:48) imbrandon: ( konversation and other kde projects also do this )
(16:22:16) mdz: imbrandon: how does limiting subscription (as opposed to posting) prevent spam?
(16:22:44) imbrandon: well its a google list so limiting sub/posting is tied togather afaik
(16:23:23) imbrandon: and the archives are open to the public also
(16:23:35) imbrandon: so its not totaly closed , just limited i would say
(16:23:39) mdz: imbrandon: I've never seen spam from a subscriber of a list; usually it's restricting posts to subscribers only which helps prevent spam
(16:23:50) mdz: which is orthogonal to restricting subscription
(16:24:33) imbrandon: right , i was totaly speculating on the reasons , i would probably have to poke eean or marke to find out /exactly/ why
(16:24:35) imbrandon: tbh
(16:24:55) imbrandon: ( amarok list admins and devlopers _
(16:24:58) imbrandon: )
(16:25:02) mdz: just curious
(16:25:19) mdz: what's your experience with the launchpad bug tracker?  do you feel that it works well?
(16:25:32) imbrandon: heh /me wishes riddell would poke in soon
(16:25:47) imbrandon: yea i think it works exceptionaly well compared to say bugs.kde.org
(16:25:57) imbrandon: although the kde BTS is getting better
(16:26:16) imbrandon: and the debian BTS is hard to use for non-debian users and new members
(16:26:30) imbrandon: imho but still useable
(16:26:40) imbrandon: but LP far outwieghs that plus
(16:26:48) mdz: what do you do with bugs which are reported to Ubuntu, but are not specific to Ubuntu and affect KDE upstream as well?
(16:26:55) imbrandon: the ability to use bzr and other tools directly from it is nice
(16:27:42) imbrandon: when i can, most of the time i stay within the kubuntu relm but track them upstream also when needed / warented
(16:28:04) imbrandon: and try to bring it to the attn of the right developers on irc upstream if i know them
(16:28:27) mdz: are you using bzr for Ubuntu development today?  I'm interested to know if it's working well for you
(16:28:59) imbrandon: one thing i have noticed about LP though that makes it hard but is beeing worked on iirc is the ability to mark as fixed in a release but wontfix etc in another release ( eg dapper or edgy )
(16:29:40) imbrandon: yes i use bzr to track apt-mirror ( as there is no upstream rcs so me and the only orther developer oped to just use LP bzr )
(16:30:00) imbrandon: and also for konversation ( thats synced with svn )
(16:30:08) mdz: imbrandon: can you show me that branch in LP? it doesn't seem to be registered to your LP account yet
(16:30:11) imbrandon: that me and mez both activly keep tabs on
(16:30:35) imbrandon: sure there should be an apt-mirror product with that as the only branch
(16:30:42) imbrandon: same for konversation
(16:31:36) mdz: there it is
(16:31:37) imbrandon: also Riddell keeps the kubuntu-website in bzr so we can all branch from it and make sugestions as needed with code patches 
(16:31:41) mdz: https://launchpad.net/products/apt-mirror/+branches
(16:31:50) imbrandon: ( i just learned that today so i will be using that more )
(16:32:22) imbrandon: yes sorry i'm at a console that dosent ahve a www browser atm ( have to do this all from memory )
(16:32:24) mdz: so it's stored on the supermirror under ubuntu-dev, meaning that any member of ubuntu-dev can commit to it.  do others commit directly to it?  has that worked well for apt-mirror?
(16:33:01) imbrandon: its worked very well for apt-mirror and its still fairly new so no other developers have shown intrest in it 
(16:33:03) imbrandon: but
(16:33:08) imbrandon: they are welcomed to ;)
(16:33:30) imbrandon: but it keeps me and the other developer thats not in the ubuntu community in sync
(16:33:31) mdz: imbrandon: I see you're a member of the backporters team and the bugsquad team. are you active on either of those?
(16:34:04) imbrandon: very active in backports ( infact ask kamoin i bug him regularly ) and active in ubuntu-sponsors
(16:34:28) imbrandon: as far as bugsquad i do alot of lp bug work and squishing and bugdays but dont much
(16:34:39) imbrandon: partisipate int he irc much of -bugsquad
(16:34:47) imbrandon: just becouse of time constraints mostly
(16:35:22) imbrandon: ubuntu-universe-sponsors
(16:35:24) imbrandon: *
(16:36:04) imbrandon: tbh i think at time me and crimsun are the only ones working on ubuntu-*-sponsors heheh but he is lightning fast ;)
(16:36:13) imbrandon: s/time/times
(16:37:28) imbrandon: crimsun, just spoke up in -motu , i cant paste from there if someone would please do the honors ;)
(16:37:43) Lathiat [n=lathiat@ubuntu/member/pdpc.basic.lathiat] entered the room.
(16:37:44) imbrandon: ( sorry i'm on a dead irssi link atm )
(16:37:57) mdz: I wasn't in #ubuntu-motu at the moment; crimsun is in this channel though if he has something to say
(16:38:04) Lure: [22:34] <crimsun> sorry, just got called away to a meeting. If imbrandon needs my backing for TB, I've worked with him on various packages (konversation and apt-mirror come to mind immediately), and he has my +1.
(16:38:20) imbrandon: thanks lure
(16:38:59) mdz: imbrandon: what would you say are your reasons for wanting to join -core-dev? what difference would it make in the work that you currently do?
(16:39:09) bddebian [n=bdefrees@mail.ottens.com] entered the room.
(16:39:29) LaserJock [n=mantha@ubuntu/member/laserjock] entered the room.
(16:39:41) imbrandon: well i think i have alot to contribute and i do that now with alot of work in main ( amarok and konversation )
(16:39:54) imbrandon: it would help our workflow but thats not the "main" reason
(16:40:13) imbrandon: just that i know i can handle it , love to do it, and ....
(16:40:15) mdz: what is the main reason?
(16:40:27) imbrandon: kubuntu needs the love ;)
(16:40:52) imbrandon: serouisly , its something i like to do and alot of my work so far has been main type work
(16:41:00) mdz: it's unusual to join the core team after such a short time as a member of the development team as a whole
(16:41:44) imbrandon: well some of that was i joined -motu late , and then wanted to show that i could do main work well
(16:42:13) imbrandon: as even before i was motu i was active in alot of this
(16:42:16) mdz: -core-dev isn't simply about the main component, but about being a consistent, long term contributor, closely involved with the project, and taking responsibility for the quality of the distribution
(16:42:56) imbrandon: mdz definately , and i ( myself and others i work with daily ) think i show and do that imho
(16:43:17) seth|lappy left the room (quit: Read error: 60 (Operation timed out)).
(16:43:32) imbrandon: i definately keep the quality high and work on kubuntu and floss in generall daily ( even as a JOB heh )
(16:43:57) mdz: imbrandon: we're now in feature freeze and will release a beta of Edgy quite soon.  what will you do differently over the next few weeks leading up to the release?
(16:44:05) imbrandon: and feel i can adhear to high standards i and everyone expects fof ubuntu
(16:44:49) imbrandon: mostly makeing sure the polish and all the "little" touches are put into k-d-s ( outlined more clearly on my wiki as to exacty changes )
(16:44:50) bddebian: Except for spelling apparently ;-P
(16:44:54) mdz: (the beta, that is)
(16:45:02) imbrandon: bddebian, yea i'm not at my normal computer heh
(16:45:09) bddebian: I'm joking, sorry :)
(16:45:24) imbrandon: mdz, that and we keep a list of "critical:" pre release bugs
(16:45:35) imbrandon: that i work to keep down top
(16:45:38) imbrandon: too*
(16:45:54) mdz: imbrandon: what about the mechanics of what you do, such as uploading packages? how will that change?
(16:46:28) imbrandon: well i wouldent have to go though the sponsor routine daily if thats what you are asking 
(16:46:33) imbrandon: right now my workflow go's
(16:46:37) imbrandon: like this .... hehe
(16:46:41) mdz: imbrandon: I mean in relation to the release
(16:46:58) imbrandon: ok well in relation to release 
(16:47:19) imbrandon: the workflow is concentrated on showstopers and major bugs in the desktop
(16:47:30) imbrandon: instead of "new crack" in kde
(16:48:01) imbrandon: for lack of a better word, making sure we have all major bugs from upstream closed and any in our kds packages that need addressing
(16:48:12) imbrandon: to put that final touch on the release
(16:48:34) imbrandon: kds == kubuntu-default-settings
(16:48:49) mdz: what I'm trying to get at is what you will consider when you make a decision about changing something in the distribution, and how that will change as we approach release
(16:49:22) mdz: does that make sense?
(16:49:46) imbrandon: ohhh 99% of our clab is done via kubuntu meeting and in kubnutu-devel with riddell tonio crimsun 
(16:49:54) mdz: it's critically important for a core developer to be aware of the release preparation process and bear it in mind when making uploads
(16:49:57) imbrandon: and quite a few other active members 
(16:50:13) imbrandon: mdz, exactly i pay close attn to that
(16:50:28) imbrandon: infact just this moring when the ubntu-dev topic changed i made the
(16:50:28) rodarvus left the room (quit: Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer)).
(16:50:33) mdz: for example, an announcement went out today regarding the upcoming knot release.  what would you do differently now, compared to before that announcement went out?
(16:50:38) imbrandon: change in k-devel to make sure everyone saw it also
(16:51:21) mdz: in terms of your uploads
(16:51:21) rodarvus [n=rodarvus@ubuntu/member/rodarvus] entered the room.
(16:52:09) imbrandon: well i try to stay very current with the happening in both -devel channels and the ML and as far as uploads naturaly in the freeze it gets cleared by riddell or other relevant person ( you ?)
(16:52:09) imbrandon: and
(16:52:57) imbrandon: non freeze for knot e.g now leading to release "the beta" only bug fixes and everything is triple checked and 
(16:53:08) imbrandon: revied by someone else if its code i'm not familiar with
(16:53:14) imbrandon: reviewed*
(16:53:28) imbrandon: but i tend to stick with things i know when it comes to crunch time
(16:54:41) mdz: imbrandon: so to use an example, one week ago you uploaded amarok 2:1.4.3-0ubuntu1.  would you make that same upload today?  why or why not?
(16:55:19) imbrandon: that one i would becouse it was critical bugfixes to 1.4.2 ( showstopers ) thus the fast release from 1.4.2
(16:55:29) imbrandon: and ONLY bugfixes
(16:55:36) imbrandon: if it hadent been then
(16:56:00) imbrandon: i would have stiped out the relvant patches and only applied those to 1.4.2 and if it was today 
(16:56:06) imbrandon: i would do the same 
(16:56:16) imbrandon: ( the patches )
(16:56:30) phanatic [n=phanatic@ubuntu/member/phanatic] entered the room.
(16:56:35) mdz: in tollef's announcement, as with other milestone freezes, he said that all uploads to main required approval from the release team
(16:56:49) mdz: so it would not be appropriate to make that same upload now
(16:56:55) imbrandon: yes and that was given by kamoin iirc
(16:57:04) imbrandon: ( and i think noted in the changelog )
(16:57:25) imbrandon: if not its definately on LP ( i do all uvfe in LP for that reason )
(16:57:36) mdz: it wasn't in the changelog, but that would have been an exception to the upstream version freeze
(16:58:06) imbrandon: yes that was my mistake not to include it in the changelog but it is documented on LP
(16:58:23) imbrandon: as a bug against amarok with the title uvf in it
(16:59:13) mdz: my point is that even if it had been granted a UVF exception yesterday, if you were preparing an upload today, it shouldn't be uploaded yet due to the milestone freeze. make sense?
(16:59:23) imbrandon: say 1.4.4 comes out tomarrow ( and knot freeze is over ) that will be stripped to patchess against 1.4.3 for bug fixes only
(17:00:00) Nafallo: except approval from Tollef that is... :-)
(17:00:11) imbrandon: ahh right ,yea no uploads for the knot , i unerstand that i guess i missed your question
(17:00:25) imbrandon: or that part of
(17:01:18) imbrandon: so if i was to do it litterly TODAY yes i would prepar it and hold off till 48hours or so when the kknot milstone is released
(17:01:46) Adri2000 [n=Adri2000@unaffiliated/adri2000] entered the room.
(17:01:50) imbrandon: ( and have done so in the past , iirc 1.4.2 came out in the knot 2 freeze )
(17:01:55) mdz: right, I was literally asking whether you would do the same thing *today*, not whether your upload last week was OK :-)
(17:02:10) imbrandon: ahh ok , sorry i missed that part
(17:02:33) mdz: I have no further questions. mjg59?
(17:02:39) imbrandon: yes i understand the milstone freezes though , as i said i was the one that added it to the k-devel topic so everyone would note it this morning
(17:02:41) imbrandon: ;)
(17:02:56) imbrandon: sorry for not being clear
(17:03:22) mdz: thanks for your patience in this discussion, I know it's been long
(17:03:30) mjg59: imbrandon: Are you happy with being able to upload stuff that could break everyone's systems?
(17:03:36) imbrandon: no problem at all, thanks for letting me be a bit late ;)
(17:04:01) imbrandon: mjg59, yup as i'm confident that i can NOT break everyones system heh
(17:04:14) mdz: but I'm sure you understand that this is a great responsibility and it's important that we establish whether you understand that
(17:04:35) imbrandon: we're all human but i do tend to check very well and do ask for opinions when its code i'm not familiar with
(17:04:46) imbrandon: definately
(17:05:30) mdz: mjg59: I'm ready for a vote when you are
(17:05:37) Lure: I can say that imbrandon typically publish his work on his server for review, particularly for larger changes (kdebase...) so I can say he is very conservative in this part
(17:05:41) mjg59: mdz: Sure, go head
(17:06:10) mjg59: Sorry, my connection is becoming alarmingly laggy
(17:07:12) mdz: +1 from me.  please remember to take this responsibliity very seriously, and be conservative with regard to the release process.  when in doubt, ask.  even if you don't doubt, asking for confirmation never hurts!
(17:07:21) mjg59: I'm inclined to go with +1, for working closely with upstream and seeming to have a good sense of the responsibilities
(17:07:30) imbrandon: ;)
(17:07:38) imbrandon: mdz, definately
(17:07:38) mdz: imbrandon: congratulations and welcome
(17:07:46) imbrandon: thansk guys ;)
(17:07:54) Lure: imbrandon: congrats and great to have you in core-dev
(17:07:55) imbrandon: ( now to get on my normal box ) heh
(17:07:57) ogra: congrats imbrandon !
(17:08:06) imbrandon: yay \0/
(17:08:06) pitti: imbrandon: welcome!
(17:08:10) mdz: is there any other business for the TB tonight?
(17:08:15) imbrandon: heya pitti thanks
(17:08:19) Nafallo: imbrandon: congratulations :-)
(17:08:22) rodarvus: imbrandon, congratulations!
(17:08:29) LaserJock: congrats imbrandon 
(17:08:32) imbrandon: ok sorry to run, i have to go get on my "real" system , this console is killing me
(17:08:38) LaserJock: imbrandon: party at my place? ;-)
(17:08:40) imbrandon: bb in 5 min
(17:08:44) imbrandon: LaserJock, ypu yup
(17:08:55) ***imbrandon is a new dad too ;) w00t
(17:09:05) mdz: imbrandon: double congrats then
(17:09:06) pitti: imbrandon: wow, congrats again
(17:09:18) ogra: imbrandon, nice :)
(17:09:24) imbrandon: hehe the postr SHOULD still be on planet , but thanks ;)
(17:09:29) mdz: last call for TB business
(17:09:35) Nafallo: imbrandon: congrats, I'm sure you will be up many nights now :-P
(17:09:37) imbrandon: ok <detached> back in a sec
(17:09:41) rodarvus: imbrandon: heh, nice. congratulations on that too :)
(17:09:46) pitti: mdz: has there been any word on the usplash status?
(17:09:55) mdz: pitti: more specifically?
(17:09:59) pitti: mdz: i. e. will we go with the SVGA patch or revert to VGA?
(17:10:09) mjg59: kamion has it working with framebuffer
(17:10:12) mdz: as far as I'm aware, the only outstanding issue is powerpc
(17:10:19) mdz: and I saw an upload from colin which I thought might address that
(17:10:22) pitti: well, and amd64+nvidia
(17:10:23) mjg59: There's a reversion on amd64 systems with nvidia hardware
(17:10:29) ogra: right, he said it was fixed for him
(17:10:45) mjg59: I'm confident that's repairable, and if not we can fall back for that specific case
(17:10:57) mdz: I'm confident we should push ahead with it then
(17:10:57) pitti: ok, thanks for the heads-up!
(17:11:15) pitti: glad to see that it doesn't need to be reverted completely
(17:11:26) pitti: (and eager to see it actually working :-P)
(17:11:26) mdz: if there's a bug report open about the nvidia issue, I'd appreciate a subscription.  if not, there should be one
(17:11:37) ***pitti will check
(17:11:49) mdz: TB adjourned, thanks everyone
(17:11:49) slomo: pitti, mdz: it works fine for me on ppc too with the latest upload
</pre>
