{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=10&day=21&year=2013&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Oct 21st 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Ubuntu 13.10 is released. Thanks to everyone who contributed to Ubuntu security for the Saucy Salamander!
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** preparing for sprint next week
** planning to 14.10
** patch piloting
** pending updates
** mdeslaur:
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** testing
*** IPC
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor
*** kdbus with !AppArmor/LSMs
*** ecryptfs maintainership
*** help with IPC as needed
** jjohansen
** !AppArmor
*** IPC
*** patches for 3.13
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** chrisccouson
** oxide work items
** bug:1214049 - Oxide "Support accelerated compositing"
** preliminary packaging for oxide
** resurrect mozilla daily builds
** prepare for mozilla release next week
** follow-up on chromium-browser updates
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** mention the following blog posts related to 13.10 work:
** http://www.chriscoulson.me.uk/blog/?p=196
** http://penguindroppings.wordpress.com/2013/10/18/application-isolation-with-apparmor-part-iii/

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-10-21-16.31.html
