{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon Mar 23th 2015 16:36 UTC
* '''End''': 16:57 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Tyler Hicks (tyhicks)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Artur Rona (ari-tczew) provided a debdiff for jakarta-taglibs-standard in vivid (LP: #1433365)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Polishing the Snappy frameworks RFC
** Working on seccomp support in the snappy launcher
** Organizing work around the Snappy security yaml
** Embargoed item
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: bug triage
** Testing and publishing pending updates
** Preparing another update
** sbeattie
** weekly role: cve triage
** AppArmor patch review
** Apply fixes to the apparmor package
** Continue testing of gcc-5 pie-on-amd64 packages
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** Wrap up security review of the python-bcrypt MIR (LP: #1427861)
** Review the initial snappy launcher code
** Land the libapparmor policy cache API changes
** Restart work on AppArmor kernel keyring mediation for user data encryption
** Finish up the patches to fix bug #1430532 and send them out for review
** Embargoed item
  <pre> comment
** jjohansen
** Finish up patches for bug #1431717 and bug #1430546
** libapparmor cache API review
** Send out patches around DFA testing
** AppArmor kernel cleanups and upstreaming
** Followup with kernel team regarding the bug #1423810 and #1423810 fixes landing
  </pre>
** sarnold
*** weekly role: community
*** OpenStack security updates
*** Outstanding MIR requests
** chriscoulson
*** Finish the arale-fixes branch and get it merged into trunk
*** Work on 'Persist permission request decisions for a session' (LP: #1428754)
*** Get Firefox buildable again in 12.04 (Mozilla bumped the GCC requirement to version 4.7)
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-03-23-16.36.moin.txt
