{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ACTION: gaughen or jamespage or smoser: get all server blueprints represented at /topic-t-servercloud-overview.html 
* T Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:05.

** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html 

==== Trusty Development ====
The discussion about "Trusty Development" started at 16:06.

Alpha 2 is next deliverable on January 23.  Cloud images will have alpha2 deliverable.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:07)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server 
* '''Blueprints''' (16:09)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:11.

nothing to report.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:11.

Nothing to report.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)" started at 16:12.

If you have server related work for kernel team, please ping smoser or jamespage as sforshee has some cycles.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)" started at 16:13.

Nothing to report.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:14.

Nothing to report.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:15.

Nothing to report.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:16.

Next meeting will be Tue Jan 14 16:00:00 UTC 2014.

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* smoser (41)
* smb (5)
* meetingology (3)
* utlemming_ (2)
* caribou (2)
* jamespage (1)
* rbasak (1)
* psivaa (1)

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tue Jan 14 16:00:00 UTC 2014 in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:05 <smoser> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
 16:05 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan  7 16:05:08 2014 UTC.  The chair is smoser. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 16:05 <meetingology> 
 16:05 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 16:05 <smoser> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
 16:05 * smoser gaughen or jamespage or smoser: get all server blueprints represented at /topic-t-servercloud-overview.html
 16:06 <jamespage> smoser, done
 16:06 <smoser> yeah. good.
 16:06 <smoser> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html
 16:06 <smoser> #topic Trusty Development
 16:06 <smoser> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule
 16:07 <smoser> alpha2 is Jan 23. I suspect we'll try to do cloud images for that also.
 16:07 <smoser> we did them for alpha1.
 16:07 <smoser> please do keep up on your blueprints and be aware that time is moving forward.
 16:07 <utlemming_> smoser: I was planning on alpha2 images
 16:07 <smoser> #subtopic Release Bugs
 16:07 * utlemming_ votes for alpha 2 images
 16:07 <smoser> yeah. we'll have them.
 16:07 <smoser> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
 16:08 <smoser> hm... we do have a fair amount of unassigned bugs there (16)
 16:09 <smoser> i'm not really interested in walking through all of them.
 16:09 <smoser> please take alook and see if you can do anything there.
 16:09 <smoser> #subtopic Blueprints
 16:09 <smoser> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html
 16:10 * smoser is happy that he's not the worst of the "status by assignee".
 16:11 <smoser> please take a look there and try to get some of your items accomplished. especially those that were tagged for 2013 or 2014.1
 16:11 <smoser> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
 16:11 <smoser> caribou, here ?
 16:11 <caribou> smoser: I'm here
 16:11 <caribou> smoser: with nothing specific on my end, thanks
 16:11 <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
 16:12 <psivaa> no updates from us
 16:12 <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
 16:12 <smb> No updates. Just returned. Oh maybe for zul
 16:13 <smb> there will be a few things for libvirt
 16:13 <smoser> i'll say that wrt kernel team updates, sforshee is looking for some server related work. if you do have something, please suggest it to smoser or jamespage and/or sforshee.
 16:13 <smb> but still in testing right now
 16:13 <smb> Oh yeah, sorry
 16:13 <smoser> moving on, smb ?
 16:13 <smoser> er... should i move on.
 16:13 <smb> wfm :)
 16:13 <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
 16:13 <rbasak> No updates from me. Any questions?
 16:14 <smoser> one notable thing in the "arm server" world http://gigaom.com/2013/12/19/arm-server-pioneer-calxeda-plans-restructuring-after-running-out-of-cash/
 16:14 <smoser> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
 16:14 <smoser> anything coming up ?
 16:15 <smoser> crickets
 16:15 <smoser> moving on
 16:15 <smoser> #topic Open Discussion
 16:15 <smoser> any one have anything here?
 16:16 <smoser> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
 16:18 <smoser> $ echo "next meeting is in: $(($(date +%s --utc --date="next tuesday 16:00") - $(date +%s))) seconds"
 16:18 <smoser> next meeting is in: 603726 seconds
 16:18 <smoser> oops.
 16:18 <smoser> Tue Jan 14 21:00:00 UTC 2014
 16:18 <smoser> #endmeeting
</pre>
