{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   12:04 Riddell    so, we should start
   12:04 Riddell    Hobbsee: you have the first item
   12:04 Hobbsee    https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/38573
   12:04 Ubugtu     Malone bug 38573 in kdebase "kubuntu_36_hide_kjobviewer_menu_entry.diff should be dropped" [Wishlist,Confirmed]
   12:05 raphink    let's
   12:05 Hobbsee    this is a wishlist - do we want to accept it?  it probably makes sense
   12:05 Riddell    I tt
   12:05 Riddell    ]
   12:05 Riddell    sorry
   12:05 Riddell    rationale for removng it was that when there's something printing you get it in the systray
   12:05 Riddell    so I don't see why it's needed
   12:06 Lure       I would agree that the on is SysSetting->Printers is a bit hidden one...
   === noteventime [n=tilo@h209n2c1o291.bredband.skanova.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:06 OdyX       4 clics...
   === Seantater [n=sean@cpe-069-132-052-158.carolina.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:06 raphink    same
   12:06 raphink    + there's the print applet
   12:06 raphink    that can be added to the bar
   12:07 Lure       Riddell: right, so if my jobs are stuck it will be there
   12:07 Hobbsee    people still cant find the theming section of system settings - i doubt that many end up finding the printer module too
   12:07 Hobbsee    sorry, still rather asleep here...start, brain, start!
   12:07 Riddell    Hobbsee: themeing isn't there at all, printing is there
   12:08 freeflying Riddell: some guys need themeing select from system settings
   12:08 Lure       Hobbsee: I can agree with theme/appereance and stuff (many modules), but Printers is only one
   12:08 Hobbsee    i guess it's a submenu away.  i actually meant colours
   12:08 Riddell    is there a use case
   12:08 yuriy      I think if anybody needs kjobviewer when they're not printing they can be bothered to go to system settings, there's no need to clutter up the menu with it.
   12:08 Riddell    for when you need it?
   12:08 Hobbsee    Riddell: yes, in the bug report
   === BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
   === WillHunting [n=Will@lns-bzn-46-82-253-203-14.adsl.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:09 Riddell    hmm, printing from openoffice
   12:09 yuriy      actually, i guess the bug report brings up good points
   12:10 Riddell    hmm
   12:10 uniq       i'm for removing the diff.
   12:10 Riddell    I'm still against it but I'm happy for it to go to a poll
   12:10 Lure       Riddell: true - I also notice that Firefox does not trigger job viewer tray...
   12:10 Riddell    Lure: bah, use konqueror :)
   12:11 Lure       Riddell: tried twice, still no go... but planning again... ;-)
   12:11 Riddell    -1 from me
   12:11 Riddell    go, vote..
   12:11 uniq       +1
   12:11 claydoh    -1
   12:11 Tonio_     -1
   12:11 Hobbsee    +1 - i know i keep looking up the printer module often enough
   12:12 Lure       +1
   12:12 Riddell    Hobbsee: why do you end up looking it up?
   12:12 OdyX       0
   12:12 Tonio_     Riddell: there is another possibility
   12:12 Tonio_     there is a submenu activable
   12:12 Riddell    yuck, submenu's are evil
   === Huahua [n=hua_@222.50.183.147] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:13 Tonio_     gives the same rederring than the "printers" submenu in windows
   12:13 Hobbsee    Riddell: because it's hard to hear if the printer is actually finished, and im' often not sure where the printer has failed - ie, my computer, or between my computer and the printer.
   12:13 Tonio_     anyone already tested this ?
   12:13 uniq       I'll have to go to bed. nite kubuntuers.
   12:13 OdyX       nite uniq
   12:13 OdyX       Tonio_: howto ?
   12:13 Tonio_     OdyX: showing a screenshot, plz wait ;)
   12:14 Hobbsee    Riddell: anyway, do we want to discuss the other issues, then come back to this, as people have had a bit of time to think?  it's already a quarter thru the meeting :P
   === kwwii [n=kwwii@likes.smoking.more.than.watching.spacenight.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:14 Hobbsee    morning kwwii
   12:14 Riddell    we could let kwwii decide
   12:14 kwwii      hi Hobbsee
   12:14 Riddell    kwwii: let us know what you decide on https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/38573
   12:14 Ubugtu     Malone bug 38573 in kdebase "kubuntu_36_hide_kjobviewer_menu_entry.diff should be dropped" [Wishlist,Confirmed]
   12:14 Riddell    ok, Tonio_, your item
   12:14 Tonio_     http://planetemu.net/temp/capture8.png
   12:15 Tonio_     Riddell: here it is
   12:15 Tonio_     just to finish on this :)
   12:15 Riddell    Tonio_: ug, a top level menu
   === robotgee1 [i=venkat@digital.celebris.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:16 Tonio_     Riddell: that's better to me that a kjobviewer entry in system or  something......... but well, let's go next item :)
   12:16 OdyX       Tonio_: that's "to think about"...
   12:16 Riddell    Tonio_: bogofilter..
   12:16 yuriy      Tonio_: could that menu go within System?
   12:16 saaida     what was the url for installing firefox 1.5 ?
   12:16 Tonio_     yes, so bogofilter has been removed
   12:16 Tonio_     as our major aim for kubuntu is usability, I think that's an issue
   12:16 Tonio_     it is not quite easy for a newbie to guess what are the compatibles antispam filters
   12:17 Riddell    it looks like it's in main
   12:17 Hobbsee    saaida: this is not a support channel.  see #kubuntu
   12:17 Tonio_     Riddell: yes, it was shiped by default with dapper, but isn't anymore
   12:17 Riddell    Tonio_: any idea what's changed that it's not brought in now?
   === saaida [n=noname@86.125.24.164] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
   12:17 kwwii      Riddell: as someone who prints a lot, I find it nice to be able to open it easily...case 3 is exactly right - often things do not function as expected but you don't know that until 15min later (and you closed the pop-up cause you thought it would work)
   12:17 Tonio_     Riddell: I didn't check deps in detail..... I will have to
   === Parkotron [n=parker@fctnnbsc16w-156034215207.nb.aliant.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:18 Tonio_     I have to compare breezy to dapper on that point
   12:18 OdyX       does bogofilter have any issues/bad comportements ?
   12:18 Riddell    3465kB, I'd say we afford that
   12:18 Tonio_     Riddell: big advantage with bogofilter is that it is pretty light ressources compared to spamassassin
   === OdyX uses both though.
   12:19 Riddell    Tonio_: does it need any setting up or does kmail use it automatically?
   12:19 Tonio_     OdyX: bogofilter works nicelly as long as you tag correctly your mails
   12:19 Riddell    hmm, you have to tag your e-mails?
   12:19 Tonio_     Riddell: when you use kmail, simply use the antispam configuration assistant, and everything is automatic
   12:19 Tonio_     as long as it is installed of course
   12:20 Tonio_     Riddell: yes it is bayes based, so you have to tag to build black and white lists
   12:20 Tonio_     same way than spamassassin anyway
   12:20 Riddell    Tonio_: how do you tag?  is there a menu item that becomes available when you setup spam?
   12:20 Tonio_     once you taggued a few mails, it starts making good job to me, about 95% spams detected
   12:20 Tonio_     Riddell: yes, you have buttons added to the interface automatically by the assistant
   12:21 OdyX       Riddell: menu on right-clicks on mails or top-bar button.
   12:21 Riddell    Tonio_: sounds great, I'll add it to the seeds
   12:21 Tonio_     everything is really simple to configure and use, as long as you have a tool preinstalled
   12:21 Tonio_     Riddell: thanks :)
   12:21 Lure       great
   12:22 Riddell    ok, is Nirvana here?
   12:22 Lure       Riddell: does not look like...
   12:22 Riddell    guess not
   12:22 Riddell    mvo has some plans to add screenshots to gnome-app-install in dapper+1
   12:22 Riddell    which may be done through launchpad
   12:23 Riddell    so something similar can be done for adept if someone wants to code it
   12:23 Riddell    hmm, bogofilter is on this agenda twice :)
   12:23 raphink    oh nice :)
   12:23 OdyX       screenshots stored in debs or in launchpad ?
   12:23 Riddell    OdyX: launchpad wuld be the best place
   12:24 OdyX       sure.
   12:24 Hobbsee    (if we cant stop duplicates on one wiki page, what chance do we have of avoiding duplicate bug reports??? :P )
   12:24 Riddell    adding it to app-install-data would take up significant disk space
   12:24 Riddell    ok, pef points us to https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/41040
   12:24 Ubugtu     Malone bug 41040 in kdebase "Should be easier to choose printout mode (draft/normal/photo,...)" [Wishlist,Unconfirmed]
   12:24 Lure       Hobbsee: lol
   12:25 Riddell    which looks a lot like an upstream issue to me, redesigning the kde print dialogue is not best done by distros
   12:25 toma       not at all indeed
   12:25 Lure       Riddell: agree
   12:25 Riddell    toma: hmm?
   12:25 Riddell    toma: to which point?
   12:26 toma       your point
   12:26 yuriy      i don't understand what is meant by adept screenshots
   12:26 toma       hmm, other words: i think it is an upstream thing
   12:26 Riddell    yep, pef if you read the logs, work with inorog on the issue
   12:26 Riddell    so, kubuntu members
   12:26 kwwii      Here is a usability side of the printer problem...my father-in-law complained that his computer was stuck in a loop because he tried to print one document and it kept printing them every hour or so...in the end it turned out that he had tried to print a 70MB file and cause it took so long he kept clicking, thinking it was not working...the queue had like 20 jobs in it
   12:26 Lure       yuriy: adept would show screenshop (preview) of app that you may want to installl
   12:27 raphink    yuriy: screenshots of programs to be added to program description
   12:27 raphink    imo
   12:27 yuriy      oh to the description
   12:27 yuriy      interesting idea
   12:27 Riddell    kwwii: yep, I think we'll add back the print job viewer to the menu
   12:27 yuriy      it would have to download them from launchpad or along with the package lists from apt then?
   12:27 toma       kwwii: there was a prinitng summit recently, i think the conclusion was that printing can be improved a lot and there are people working on it
   12:28 Riddell    toma: there's still very little action from KDE on it
   12:28 kwwii      toma: my point is, if he would have found the print queue utility he would have know
   12:28 toma       (but that can take a while)
   12:28 kwwii      but he kept closing them
   12:28 kwwii      anyway...
   12:28 kwwii      that is my opinion :-)
   12:29 Riddell    so I now have the ability to make kubuntu members, which are equal to ubuntu members
   12:29 Riddell    member needs to have made a sustained and substantial contribution, and sign the code of conduct etc
   12:29 Tonio_     Riddell: equal ?? interesting ;)
   12:29 Riddell    questions is what's the best way to accept people as members
   12:29 Hobbsee    so, what's the idea - if you go for kubuntu membership, you dont have to go for ubuntu membership?
   12:29 kwwii      blood
   12:29 robotgeek  if i am a member of both teams, do i get something special :P
   12:30 Riddell    Hobbsee: correct, they are exactly the same thing, you just get a different icon
   12:30 raphink    Riddell: as we're talking about kdeprint, did you confirm the greyed list of printers when adding a new printer currently?
   12:30 OdyX       robotgeek: A4 visit card.
   12:30 Tonio_     Riddell: will members get @ubuntu.com address too ?
   12:30 Riddell    raphink: nope, I didn't have that problem and neither has anyone else
   12:30 Riddell    Tonio_: they'll get @kubuntu.org addresses if elmo works out how to do it
   12:30 Tonio_     Riddell: very nice ;)
   === Tonio_ wants tonio@kubuntu.org :)
   12:31 Riddell    as I understand it edubuntu are starting an edubuntu community council for this
   12:31 kwwii      now that is cool
   12:31 raphink    weird
   12:31 Tonio_     Riddell: to my opinion a CC is the best for this yes
   === hybrid_ [n=hybrid@unaffiliated/hybrid] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:31 toma       Riddell: i found the kde eV method very good, 1 person suggest->2 agree->vote, but that depends on how many people would join. Maybe go straight to a vote would be ok.
   12:31 raphink    oh interesting
   12:31 raphink    :)
   12:31 Riddell    we could have a kubuntu community council.  or we could have just use these meeting,
   12:31 OdyX       Tonio_: CC, with Kubuntu Members or Ubuntu Members ?
   12:31 Riddell    or I could just have the final say
   12:32 raphink    Tonio_: hehe
   12:32 Riddell    toma: interesting idea, we could have a script set up to vote with the existing members
   12:32 Hobbsee    i supect that would create more problems than it would fix - what if the person suddenly starts working on gnome?  what if they want to work on both at the same time?  we already have enough people asking for teh kubuntu repos, thinking they are separate to the ubuntu ones - does that mean we need a #kubuntu-motu as well?
   12:32 claydoh    start small, then go to a kubuntu community council if it gets too unwieldy?
   === Hobbsee realises she has a thing to add to the end of the meeting...
   12:32 Hobbsee    mind you, i like the idea of hobbsee@kubuntu.com
   12:32 Hobbsee    er, .org
   12:32 Tonio_     OdyX: same than the ubuntu CC, every member gives his opinion, and a team of people is designed to take the decision
   12:33 Riddell    Hobbsee: since kubuntu memebership is exactly the same as ubuntu membership this doesn't change stuff like everyone working in #ubuntu-motu
   12:33 Tonio_     it works well for ubuntu actually, so why would we do differently ?
   12:33 OdyX       Tonio_: Yeah.. I understand that.. but would there be a Kubuntu CC (KCC) ?
   12:33 raphink    Hobbsee: not .com
   12:33 Tonio_     OdyX: supposedly yes
   12:34 Hobbsee    Riddell: i'm worried that people will start thinking that kubuntu/ubuntu memberships are different
   12:34 Hobbsee    raphink: yeah, i fixed it
   12:34 Lure       Tonio_: I think CC would be better (more clear), but then you need to define how CC is elected...
   === Parkotron2 [n=parker@fctnnbsc16w-156034215252.nb.aliant.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:34 Riddell    Hobbsee: it just emphasises the parts you work on most
   12:34 yuriy      so what would actually be the point/benefit of being a kubuntu "member" other than a cool email address?
   12:34 Hobbsee    Riddell: or that people will try to go for kubuntu just to get membership on kubuntu, if it's easier than ubuntu's, then switch over...
   12:34 robotgeek  yuriy: more work, more responsibility :)
   12:34 Hobbsee    hmmm..right
   12:35 Lure       Or just Riddell changes his nick to ksabdfl?
   12:35 Lure       ;-)
   12:35 toma       good question yuriy
   12:35 robotgeek  lol
   12:35 Tonio_     Lure: LOL ^^
   12:35 Hobbsee    yuriy: a cool hostmask that makes you look like you know what you're talkign about :P
   12:35 ajmitch    yuriy: it's more for delegation to the teams where people work
   12:35 OdyX       Lure: +1
   12:35 Hobbsee    hehe!
   === claydoh [n=clay@bb-66-63-100-239.gwi.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["problem]
   12:35 Riddell    yuriy: mostly it's a sign of commitment, it also means you get to vote on community council and tech board members, and it's a requirement for getting upload rights
   12:35 Tonio_     Lure: why not, riddell decides the kcc and then the kcc decides the members
   12:35 Tonio_     that makes sense
   12:35 Riddell    Hobbsee: this is indeed something we'll have to be careful of
   12:36 toma       Riddell: in that case, i would think it is wise to vote between all members and you being able to override it at any time.
   12:36 yuriy      Riddell, ajmitch: thanks, good answer
   12:37 OdyX       I think (with all respect to you Riddell) that "one person  responsability" is dangerous. For the beginning, it's normal, but then, a concil is good.
   12:37 Hobbsee    is it such a bad thing to go to the CC, and get membership that way?  i know they're kinda harsh at times, and a bit scary...but i would not want to separate the distros more than they already are
   12:37 yuriy      Hobbsee: lol yeah that's what I was thinking.
   12:37 ajmitch    Hobbsee: it's the CC that wants the teams to take responsibility for it, iirc
   12:38 toma       in about a year, how many people do you expect in the kcc?
   12:38 ajmitch    I think that the kubuntu-members would be a sub-team of ubuntu-members, so anyone added to k-m is automatically in both
   12:38 ajmitch    (just speculation)
   12:38 Lure       Hobbsee: I also understand current CC - it will not scale if you count also LoCo approvals, and governance stuff
   12:38 Hobbsee    Also, we dont know everything - Riddell has a far greater understanding than we do of who fits where - how are we to vote on someone we've never heard much about, if they've not been on irc?  i've only found out that amu did the cds, recently!
   12:38 OdyX       ajmitch: that's what planning said, AFAIR
   12:38 Tonio_     ajmitch: that can be a bit confusing no ?
   12:38 Lure       it makes sense to have some delgation of authority to subgrups of size of Kubuntu or Edubuntu.
   12:38 yuriy      ajmitch: then whoever decides who is in ubuntu-members HAS to have a say here, not just Riddell or kcc
   12:38 ajmitch    Tonio_: simple once you see it :)
   12:38 Riddell    toma: if we had a community council I'd say 5 or 6 members
   12:38 Kamion     ajmitch: yes, that's how it's set up, see down at the end of https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntumembers
   12:38 Tonio_     ajmitch: most people contributing on the kde part are not especially involved in gnome
   12:39 Tonio_     and ubuntu  = gnome in the spirit of many
   12:39 Lure       ajmitch: that is the fact already - see launchpad
   12:39 ajmitch    right
   12:39 OdyX       Tonio_: this maybe has to be changes "upstream"
   12:39 toma       Riddell: in that case a simple majority should be ok, on an equal amount of votes, you decide.
   12:39 toma       just mho
   12:40 Kamion     yuriy: we're content to delegate this; if it turns out to be a problem we can always reconsider
   12:40 Riddell    Hobbsee: if we had a kcc then whoever was on it would have to be in touch with the community, but mostly the community is on #kubuntu-devel except loco teams
   12:40 OdyX       more in "Ubuntu = Good base + [Gnome/KDE/...] " or Ubuntu = good base.
   === Kamion <- CC member
   === Hobbsee waves to Kamion
   12:40 Kamion     hi
   12:40 Hobbsee    Riddell: that's true.
   12:41 Riddell    I worry with a kcc that things might get to beurocratic, e.g. we don't have that many meetings and someone might not be able to turn up at the times we do
   12:41 Riddell    Kamion: do you know if CC had any expectation of how kubuntu and edubuntu would handle this?
   12:41 Tonio_     Riddell: that's a good way to oblige us making more meetings ;)
   === WilliamZ [n=william@cpc2-tref1-0-0-cust777.cdif.cable.ntl.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:42 toma       (which might be good anyways)
   12:42 Tonio_     but seriously, I agree with on that point
   12:42 Hobbsee    one other point:  if we cant vote easily on something relatively simple such as printer settings, and quickly, is it really fair to leave the people in limbo for that long while we vote for 10 mins?  I'd like to avoid burocreacy as much as possible, and i suspect that's what we'll be creating
   12:42 Lure       Riddell: I think one meeting per month should be enough for start
   12:42 Kamion     Riddell: I wasn't really in on the details, was mostly sabdfl/elmo I think
   12:43 Kamion     Riddell: I don't think we expected you to need to create a whole clone of the CC structure etc. right away
   12:43 kwwii      I get the feeling that I voted the wrong way on the printer thing
   === sHaDe [n=sHaDe@host249-208.pool8258.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:43 Kamion     the basic impetus was just so that @kubuntu.org addresses could be created independently
   12:43 Kamion     (more or less)
   === hybrid_ [n=hybrid@dpc6745217221.direcpc.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:44 Kamion     Riddell: you can always punt folks to the CC if you feel they've made wider contributions than just kubuntu
   12:44 OdyX       Kamion: you mean  "half-members" ?
   12:44 Kamion     Riddell: I'd certainly be wary of setting up something that requires lots of voting and stuff before you get used to how things are feeling
   12:45 Kamion     heh, actually I just checked in LP and anyone who's a member of kubuntu-members is automatically a member of ubuntumembers, not the other way round
   12:45 Kamion     OdyX: so no, I don't mean half-members
   12:45 Riddell    can I propose we have a poll on 1) creating a KCC or 2) having me make the decisions based on asking people informally
   12:45 Kamion     it's a system of delegation, not a tiered ystem
   12:46 Kamion     system
   12:46 Riddell    given Kamion's comments I'm leaning towards 2)
   12:46 Riddell    anyone want to propose other options?
   12:46 toma       simple voting system at malone?
   12:46 yuriy      I don't see how voting for people at monthly meetings is a big issue.  After the initial bunch of people already contributing become members, somebody will need a few weeks to show "sustained contribution" anyways and then they can be voted on at a meeting at the end of the month.
   12:46 robotgeek  I'm also with 2) with the possibility to vote 'offline'
   12:46 Kamion     sorry, obviously it's up to you, I'm not intending to try to lean on you
   12:46 raphink    Kamion: which seems prettty logical, since kubuntu is a specific case of ubuntu
   12:46 raphink    and not the contrary
   === Hobbsee is against 1), so that probably means i have to vote 2, doesnt it? ideally, i'd keep it going through the ubuntu CC
   12:47 Riddell    so 3) voting based on existing members
   12:48 toma       3++
   12:48 raphink    I'd say 2)
   12:48 Riddell    Hobbsee: I'd add a 4) don't approve anyone and send them all to CC but it's CC's choice to delegate it to us
   12:48 Tonio_     I'd say 2) too, but 3 can also be a nice option
   12:48 Hobbsee    ah darn
   12:48 Hobbsee    Riddell: with 3, what does that mean?  the existing members voting on the new ones?
   12:49 Riddell    Hobbsee: yes
   12:49 robotgeek  How about using https://launchpad.net/people/kubuntu-members/+polls for members?
   12:49 Hobbsee    gotcha
   12:49 Hobbsee    robotgeek: leaving people in limbo is pretty mean
   12:49 robotgeek  Hobbsee: how would that be leaving people in limbo (you have x votes, you are approved)
   12:49 Lure       I would say 3)
   12:49 toma       its not going to take ages to have a poll with 5/6 people
   12:49 yuriy      with 3) then we have to start with 2) to get members in the first place?
   12:50 raphink    I think 3 is too complicate
   12:50 Riddell    the trouble with 3) is we don't have a way to discuss things
   12:50 Hobbsee    robotgeek: ah ok, i thought you were going for half way points....so you'd have to wait ages for all the required votes
   12:50 Lure       robotgeek: to formal - I think a bit of discussion on meeting is appropraite
   12:50 raphink    cause "everyone" is not easy to define
   12:50 raphink    unless that means all members present
   12:50 Riddell    raphink: yes
   12:50 toma       Riddell: you can announce the poll by email, explaining thinks, but i agree that is not a discussion.
   12:51 Lure       raphink: I would suggest simple amjority of present members (+ minimal of 3/5 present)?
   12:51 raphink    robotgeek: does this system accept comments?
   12:51 Lure       s/amjority/majority
   12:51 robotgeek  raphink: not sure, i just saw this, no idea how it works :)
   12:51 raphink    Riddell: in this case it could be used, using comments as a discussion thread
   12:51 Riddell    raphink: I don't think it does
   12:52 raphink    Lure: so a relative majority
   12:52 raphink    Lure: I don't really agree with that
   === hybrid_ [n=hybrid@dpc6745217221.direcpc.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:52 raphink    because most people who apply to membership are obviously supported
   12:53 raphink    so in the case of 3), most people will come with their support team
   12:53 Tonio_     raphink: ++
   12:53 raphink    and this is not a neutral decision in this case
   12:53 Lure       raphink: right...
   12:53 OdyX       3) includes "existing members", huh ?
   12:53 Hobbsee    raphink: +1
   12:54 raphink    in my idea, people should have avocates to apply, but their advocates shouldn't vote
   === raphink thinks this begins to look like the debian system somehow ...
   12:54 robotgeek  raphink: care to elaborate?
   12:54 Hobbsee    so...people will refuse to advocate, because they're needed to vote?
   12:54 toma       raphink: you can not so that, in a group of 5/6
   12:54 Lure       when I think again, small (3 member?) KCC with 1 year mandate, elected from all members is not a bad idea...
   12:55 raphink    I think someone who deserves membership can find at least one member to support his application
   12:55 raphink    this person should come and advocate the candidate
   12:55 raphink    but not take part in the vote
   12:55 freeflying raphink: that really like debian's
   12:55 raphink    Lure: sure
   12:55 toma       again, the group is too smal to do that
   12:56 OdyX       too small "yet" ?
   === Sergi0 [n=serge@ip227-28-166-62.adsl.versatel.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:56 raphink    1 year mandate is a bit long maybe
   12:56 raphink    but the idea seems nice imo
   12:56 Riddell    toma: you're now talking about 5/6 people, that's the KCC idea
   12:56 raphink    freeflying: indeed
   12:56 Lure       raphink: why? this is only two releases ;-)
   12:56 raphink    sure
   12:56 raphink    Lure: how long have you  been around?
   12:56 toma       ah, ok.
   12:56 robotgeek  there are 15 members, just for info
   12:57 raphink    ;)
   12:57 Lure       raphink: around kubuntu-devel? From Jan/Feb or so...
   12:57 Lure       ;-)
   12:58 raphink    mhm
   12:58 toma       why don't you try to do it with a poll between all members and when that turns out bad, create a kcc.
   === WillHunting [n=Will@lns-bzn-32-82-254-63-177.adsl.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   12:59 Hobbsee    Riddell: also, with IRC hostmasks, would they get changed to say ubuntu/member/hobbsee or kubuntu/member/hobbsee - if the latter, what does that mean for those of us who are ops in both channels - will people stop listing if the hostmask says kubuntu, saying that they cant be authorities in here, as they dont use gnome?  (warning:  semi formed idea, it's still early :P )
   12:59 Lure       toma: first question: who defines "exisitng members"  oto kick-start? every ubuntu-members that declares itself as such?
   12:59 raphink    ok
   12:59 Riddell    I think the launchpad poll thing could work
   12:59 Riddell    Hobbsee: I don't have any plans to get kubuntu freenode masks
   01:00 Riddell    Lure: see https://launchpad.net/people/kubuntu-team/
   01:00 Hobbsee    right, cool :)
   01:00 toma       Lure: https://launchpad.net/people/kubuntu-members/+members
   01:00 raphink    so...
   === raphink has lost the thread
   === Hobbsee has too :P
   01:00 Riddell    Hobbsee: although we probably could do without any problems
   01:00 Hobbsee    Riddell: please dont.
   01:00 raphink    yeah
   01:00 Riddell    Hobbsee: ok, sorted
   01:01 raphink    I think in some cases, membership is just obvious
   01:01 raphink    for everybody
   01:01 Hobbsee    Riddell: :P  that's gotta be the quickest agreement ever in history for a kubuntu meeting!
   01:01 Riddell    annoyingly no clear best way has presented itself for the kubuntu memebers question
   01:01 raphink    and there's no need for a meeting to decide about it
   01:01 Riddell    shall we take a poll again?
   01:02 toma       evaluate a system after a few tries...
   01:02 Riddell    1) kcc, 2) ksabdfl, 3) vote amongst existing members
   01:02 yuriy      toma: OH so the team is already there and has members. i was confused.
   01:02 OdyX       3) with 2) veto ?
   === freeflying 3) +
   01:02 Tonio_     1) and 3) as second option
   01:03 Lure       1
   01:03 OdyX       for not having "obvious campain comitee" ?
   01:03 yuriy      what is the difference between kubuntu-team and kubuntu-members?
   01:03 Hobbsee    1
   01:03 Riddell    yuriy: kubuntu-team is less formal, doesn't include ubuntu membership
   01:04 raphink    yuriy: kubuntu-team is the bug contact for malone
   01:04 Riddell    that too
   01:04 Riddell    interestingly we already have 3 proposed members for kubuntu-members who I've never hard of
   01:04 raphink    actually kubuntu-team is not even an equivalent of ubuntu-devel
   01:04 Riddell    heard
   01:04 raphink    since there are non-dev members in it
   01:04 Riddell    anyone know LIVRON, PeppeP, itsdebtosh?
   01:05 Hobbsee    no x3
   01:05 Riddell    raphink: it's equivent of desktop-team I think
   01:05 raphink    mhm
   01:05 raphink    Riddell: well if as sabdfl proposed we get a TB, there might be to approve kubuntu devels aswell
   01:05 OdyX       who is meant to apply to kubuntu-team ?
   01:05 raphink    and the need to have a kubuntu-devel group as there is an ubuntu-devel one
   01:05 Riddell    raphink: where did he propose that?
   01:06 raphink    or did I misunderstand his statement?
   01:06 Riddell    OdyX: anyone who helps with kubuntu, feel free to sign up
   01:06 raphink    hmm let's see
   01:06 OdyX       Riddell: thanks ;-)
   01:06 Tonio_     Riddell: never heard of them
   01:06 raphink    "
   01:06 raphink    During the course of these discussions I would like us to nominate a core
   01:06 raphink    leadership team for Kubuntu which can take overall technical
   01:06 raphink    responsibility for the desktop
   01:07 raphink    obviously that doesn't not  _exactly_ mean TB
   01:07 Kamion     raphink: ubuntu-dev is upload privileges, that won't be split out for kubuntu for quite some time
   01:07 raphink    but this is what the TB does
   01:07 raphink    for ubuntu
   01:07 OdyX       Riddell: wait.. kubuntu-team is sub-group of kubuntu-members...
   01:07 raphink    Kamion: ok, thanks for making this clear :)
   01:07 Kamion     raphink: the two share an archive, so it's not sane to split out the privileges currently
   01:07 Riddell    OdyX: other way around if anything
   01:08 raphink    sure Kamion
   === arthur [n=arthur@adsl-ull-21-166.46-151.net24.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:09 Hobbsee    actually, i'm rather in favour of having a top level team, such as raphink and Riddell, and maybe tonio or something, i'm not sure who else - who takes responsibility - instead of just Riddell.  What i see is that this team would be the KCC, control the meetings, make sure everything's on track, and people have something to do, etc.  It seems that there are so many people here, that to get agreement and direction on much is kinda difficult.
   01:09 Lure       Hobbsee: +1
   01:09 Hobbsee    it's rather hard to do something, if you dont know what to do :P
   01:10 Riddell    our poll was kindae split between 1) and 3)
   01:10 Hobbsee    these people would be approved by the general majority
   === Yann2 like the 3-guy idea
   01:10 Riddell    but Mark does seem to be suggesting some sort of committee for kubuntu to be discussed at linuxtag
   01:10 toma       i like Hobbsee's idea here..
   01:10 Hobbsee    (woot
   01:10 Riddell    Yann2: it would have to be more than three, otherwise people often don't turn up
   01:10 Hobbsee    ! i'm getting approval!)
   01:11 Tonio_     Riddell: yes mark seems to have plans for kubuntu on those points
   01:11 toma       then delay it untill after the linuxTag
   01:11 yuriy      yeah I also agree a KCC sounds the most sensible. 3 or 5 people
   01:11 ajmitch    Hobbsee: of course, it's a reasonable idea :)
   01:11 Riddell    so I propose that after linuxtag we look at what Mark and us have decided and use that as a framework for the membership stuff
   01:12 Lure       toma: probably makes sense - and it will be easier to discuss there ...
   01:12 toma       ++
   01:12 Riddell    great, a decision :)
   01:12 Lure       Riddell: ++
   01:12 Tonio_     Riddell: hehe
   === Hobbsee is lost
   01:12 Riddell    Hobbsee: kppp and krfb
   01:12 ajmitch    Riddell: I'm impressed
   === Hobbsee wants a team like i mentioned above, precisely to combat this sort of thing! And to get the meetings back on track, so everything gets discussed quickly
   01:13 Hobbsee    yeah, kpp and krfb - quick question - anyone use these, or know of people on IRC who do?
   01:13 freeflying Hobbsee: that shall be a KCC
   01:13 robotgeek  hmm, i tried kfrb once, never again!
   01:13 OdyX       Hobbsee: raphink and I used it "once".
   01:13 toma       Hobbsee: i use it to take over desktop of some of my customers
   01:14 robotgeek  but that was a long time ago
   01:14 Hobbsee    i'm subscribed to the kdenetwork section, but i dont have those to test with...
   01:14 Riddell    people who use IRC may well not use kppp if they have to pay for their dialup time
   01:14 Hobbsee    true, good point
   01:14 yuriy      krfb is a fairly nice interface, but it doesn't really work.
   01:14 Hobbsee    email also works
   01:14 Hobbsee    i'm just looking for testers
   01:14 Riddell    Hobbsee: what's the problem testing krfb, can't you setup a local server to connect to?
   01:14 toma       yuriy: why not?
   01:14 Tonio_     yuriy: krfb works perfectly.....
   01:14 kwwii      I have one question: what is, in everyones eyes, the next most important thing to take care of art-wise?
   01:14 Hobbsee    Riddell: i've only got my own machine here
   01:14 yuriy      well, in my experience and i guess robotgeek's
   01:14 OdyX       Hobbsee: you need to be able to redirect ports of router.
   01:14 Tonio_     yuriy: and the client (talking about interface) is krdc, not krfb :)
   01:14 raphink    krfb works great
   01:15 toma       yep
   01:15 Tonio_     raphink: absolutly
   01:15 yuriy      by interface I meant just the dialog it give you to set it up. UI not client.
   01:15 yuriy      1 sec i'll find the bug
   01:15 Tonio_     yuriy: okay, sorry ;)
   01:15 Riddell    Hobbsee: you can use krfb as the server and connect to your local machine with krdc
   01:15 Hobbsee    kwwii: hmm...without having seen the kdm, probably the splash screen, adn make it all nice and shiny and pretty
   01:15 Riddell    Hobbsee: it gets a bit trippy at times, but it does work
   01:15 raphink    and it's very useful
   01:15 Hobbsee    Riddell: ah ok, interesting...
   01:15 raphink    I often suggest to use krfb/krdc when helping users in desperate cases
   01:15 kwwii      Riddell: and...can I add a short overview of the kubuntu artwork until now to the wiki page for the meeting on Saturday?
   01:15 robotgeek  damn, i got confused with kxfb. <sigh> i did use krfb too, i just use freenx now
   01:15 Riddell    kwwii: please do
   01:16 kwwii      Hobbsee: we did KDM already :-) although maybe we should work on the bg of that a bit?
   01:16 Riddell    robotgeek: kxfb is an nxclient for kde?
   01:16 toma       robotgeek: thats something totally differen
   01:16 yuriy      bug 39046
   01:16 Hobbsee    kwwii: i'm not sure, i'm using a custom kdmrc, and i havent figured out how to change it back yet...
   01:16 Ubugtu     Malone bug 39046 in kdenetwork "krfb crashes when a connected client move mouse" [Normal,Unconfirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/39046
   01:16 robotgeek  toma: i know, i got confuzzled :)
   01:16 Tonio_     Riddell: I think the client is knx
   01:16 Riddell    yes
   01:16 Tonio_     Riddell: never heard of that kxfb
   01:16 robotgeek  Riddell: kxfb is a start button or something, sorry for confusion
   01:17 Hobbsee    while i'm the one who's discussing things here, can we get rid of that horrible thing called kwifimanager, or at least, hide it on the menus?
   01:17 Tonio_     robotgeek: ahhhhhhhh ys tou're tight :)
   01:17 yuriy      ok i should be more specific. krfb has problems when you connect to it with a different vnc client
   01:17 Tonio_     robotgeek: linspire uses this
   01:17 Riddell    Hobbsee: I think for kppp testing you'll need to put out a call on the kubuntu-devel mailing list
   === robotgeek likes his K-Menu
   01:17 Tonio_     yuriy: it is slower and then krfb uses big resources, you're right
   01:17 raphink    Tonio_: this is a kicker applet to replace the K Menu and look like the fancy XP menu
   01:17 Hobbsee    it's a piece of rubbish, it doesnt work, it's never worked, and it tends to lie about networks.  see the bug reports for it.  it also lies about IP addresses, and sayign you're connected when in actual fact you arent.
   01:17 toma       yuriy: my collegea uses a mac without problems to connect to them
   01:18 Tonio_     raphink: I know ;)
   01:18 Riddell    Hobbsee: kppp isn't really maintained in KDE as far as I can tell
   01:18 Lure       Riddell: kppp bugs looks like just giving better out-of-box config...
   01:18 Hobbsee    Riddell: is there another tool for it?   knm is eventually going to contain dialup stuff, isnt it?
   01:18 Lure       Hobbsee: I could try kppp (if my modem in laptop works) with local dialup ISP for test
   01:19 Riddell    Hobbsee: I'm not sure, in suse it just calls yast I think
   === Hobbsee nods
   01:19 Riddell    I wonder what gnome network-manager does
   01:19 freeflying Riany tools for configure ADSL.etc in kde now
   === arthur [n=arthur@adsl-ull-21-166.46-151.net24.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   01:19 Riddell    I suspect it's not built-in their either
   01:19 Riddell    freeflying: what's that?
   01:19 Tonio_     Riddell: gnome network-manager simply doesn't have any ppp features
   01:19 freeflying Riddell: any tools for configure ADSL.etc in kde now ?
   01:19 Tonio_     that's knetworkmanager specific, since it is developped by suse
   01:19 Riddell    freeflying: no, do you need some?
   01:20 Riddell    Tonio_: right
   01:20 freeflying Riddell: sure
   01:20 Hobbsee    freeflying: it tends to work by default, doesnt it?
   01:20 Riddell    freeflying: have you tried knet?
   01:20 freeflying Rihaven't yet
   01:20 freeflying haven't yet
   01:20 Riddell    freeflying: let me know if that's what you need
   01:20 Riddell    Hobbsee: can you put a call out on the mailing list then?
   01:21 Hobbsee    Riddell: yep, okay then.
   01:21 Riddell    ok, linuxtag
   01:21 Riddell    Yann2: poke
   01:21 freeflying Hobbsee: pppoe can work defautly?
   01:21 Yann2      . :)
   01:21 Hobbsee    freeflying: oh, i thought you meant something else, my errors.
   01:22 Riddell    just wanting to inform everyone that Mark wants me and him and anyone else to have meetings with KDE people at linuxtag
   01:22 Riddell    raphink: can you come to that?
   === apokryphos [i=[U2FsdGV@server2.polaristar.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:22 freeflying Riddell: can knet be in main
   01:22 Riddell    if anyone has ideas on what to put at https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuLinuxTagMeetings I'd welcome that
   01:22 freeflying or include in install cd
   01:22 Tonio_     Riddell: I will be there on saturday
   01:22 Riddell    freeflying: sure, if it works for you then probably lots of people need it
   01:22 Riddell    Tonio_: great
   01:22 Tonio_     so if it is saturday, I will be there
   01:23 Riddell    Tonio_: yes, it's saturday
   01:23 raphink    Riddell: sure
   01:23 Tonio_     Riddell: perfect then :)
   01:23 freeflying Riddell: too many guys in china need it  :)
   === Hobbsee has no passport, and will not be there.
   01:23 raphink    Riddell: i'll be at LT and surely at these meetings
   01:23 Tonio_     9 hours train for one day in linuxtag......
   01:23 raphink    esp. on saturday which is ubuntu love day
   01:23 Riddell    raphink: have you heard from mdy about your talk?
   01:23 Lure       Riddell: I would like to come, but flight/train connections are bad (and I cannot leave before Fri)
   01:23 OdyX       Tonio_: could be bus...
   01:23 Tonio_     OdyX: lol
   01:24 Riddell    the kde-ev list seems quite interested in these meetings
   01:24 raphink    hmmm
   01:24 Riddell    I've no idea what to expect really, but it should be interesting
   01:24 toma       Riddell: I see Eva's name
   01:24 Riddell    toma: yep
   01:25 Riddell    eva's quite a big kubuntu fangirl
   01:25 toma       and scott and daniel, wow.
   01:25 OdyX       We started a general discussion on -fr forums. Users are wondered about Kubuntu's future IN Ubuntu...
   01:25 raphink    Riddell: yes
   01:25 OdyX       this could be interestingly discussed with Mark...
   01:25 kwwii      Riddell: I talked to Eva on the phone yesterday (I am doing a contract for her company) and she asked me about this stuff :-)
   01:25 freeflying Riddell: how about the grub install failure of kubuntu
   01:26 Riddell    freeflying: hang on, we're still on linuxtag
   01:26 Riddell    OdyX: what sort of thing are they wondering?
   01:26 OdyX       like if Kubuntu would be seperating of Ubuntu, to have Kde-based releases...
   01:27 apokryphos interesting
   01:27 Riddell    OdyX: I doubt it, especailly since KDE won't be releasing again for probably 10 months
   01:27 Riddell    but longer term, maybe
   01:27 apokryphos (/me notes that of course many people are also thinking about Canonical's dedication to Kubuntu as well, these days)
   01:27 OdyX       like about the fact that Ubuntu is more a base and should maybe not be associated with Gnome...
   01:27 raphink    OdyX: seems kamion gave a clear answer on this
   01:27 Riddell    I suspect Mark just hopes KDE will move to time based releases, which would be lovely but unlikly to happen
   01:27 yuriy      OdyX: I don't think that's an issue until at least dapper+2 when it might be sensible to waight for a stable release of kde4
   01:27 eric_p     Riddell: most people in french forum were against separate release cycle
   01:28 Riddell    eric_p: so am i at this stage
   01:28 OdyX       so am I.. just reporting questions
   01:28 Riddell    apokryphos: wait until we have shipit in June, that'll be a noticable dedication
   01:28 apokryphos indeed :). Very happy that's happening.
   01:28 OdyX       I think Kubuntu's future as distribution (and no variant/taste) of Ubuntu should be discussed.
   01:28 raphink    I don't want separate realease either
   01:29 toma       could we focus on linuxtag for now
   01:29 Tonio_     I'm sorry guys, but I have to wait very early tomorrow..... I have to go.....
   01:29 Tonio_     note all
   01:29 apokryphos yeah, was a little annoying last time that on slashdot there was "Ubuntu 5.10 released!" ....and no mention of Kubuntu :/
   01:29 eric_p     note that KDE devs will never accept time based release
   01:29 Yann2      I think Kubuntu should be part of the more global "Ubuntu" project :)
   01:29 ajmitch    bye Tonio_
   01:29 Tonio_     s/note/nite
   01:29 OdyX       bye Tonio_
   01:29 apokryphos 'night
   01:30 OdyX       Yann2: wouldn't that mean a separation between Gnome and Ubuntu ?
   01:30 toma       is the plan like having a seperate room for kubuntu meetings all saterday and only saterday?
   01:30 robotgeek  later folks, gotta run
   01:30 Riddell    toma: not all saturday but for a few hours yes
   01:30 toma       i counted 200+ minutes already ;-)
   01:31 Riddell    ok, we're running late
   01:31 Riddell    if anyone has other suggestions for linuxtag do let me know
   01:31 Riddell    and I'll report back on blog/mailing list etc
   01:31 Riddell    anyone object to me removing kuickshow?
   01:31 toma       nope, but whats the replacement?
   01:31 apokryphos kuickshow sucks :P
   01:32 apokryphos gwenview
   01:32 Riddell    it's obsoleted by gwenview/digikam/kimdama as far as I'm concerned
   01:32 Lure       Riddell: it would be nice if somebody would take notes and report back to others that will not be there
   01:32 toma       ieee
   01:32 Lure       (meeting minutes or so)
   === Hobbsee didnt even konw kuickshow existed :P
   01:32 Riddell    toma: we never included kuickshow in main, but now it's being removed from the distro completely because we don't want to use imlib
   01:32 ajmitch    Hobbsee: you didn't miss much
   === OdyX neither.
   01:32 raphink    Hobbsee: kuickshow is obsolete
   01:33 Hobbsee    hehe true
   01:33 raphink    it hasn't been maintained for 3 years
   01:33 kwwii      Riddell: that might cause a bit of a stir, but I think it should be removed
   01:33 toma       digikam is albummanagement, so not an option. showfoto would be (patched without splash)
   01:33 kwwii      gwenview has drawbacks as well
   01:33 Riddell    kwwii: I think it might with some of the older KDE users
   01:33 apokryphos digikam is getting better and better very quickly these days
   01:33 kwwii      Riddell: exactly
   01:34 Riddell    but nobody here's objecting, so decision made
   01:34 kwwii      yepp :-)
   01:34 Riddell    any other business?
   01:34 toma       apokryphos: but not to view a single image quickly
   01:34 apokryphos indeed
   01:34 Hobbsee    Riddell: do we want to create a #kubuntu+1 channel?
   01:34 Hobbsee    where do we hold the kuubntu dapper stuff?  #kubuntu or #ubuntu+1?
   01:34 apokryphos toma: as you said, its speciality is photo management.
   01:34 Riddell    Hobbsee: for discussing edgy?
   01:34 Hobbsee    er, dapper at this point..
   01:34 toma       apokryphos: i know ;-)
   01:35 Riddell    Hobbsee: so this would be for users to discuss using dapper?
   01:35 Hobbsee    Riddell: yes
   01:35 apokryphos would be a good idea
   01:35 apokryphos people get shoved between those two quite a bit sometimes
   01:35 Riddell    Hobbsee: I don't think there would be enough people in it
   01:35 Hobbsee    i'm half in favour of keeping them all in #kubuntu
   01:35 OdyX       #ubuntu-fr+1 exists for straight a long time..
   01:35 Hobbsee    but they are being shoved to #ubuntu+1, then dont get help for kde related problems
   01:35 Riddell    yes, I'd say keep them in #kubuntu
   01:35 robotgeek  people half expect #kbuntu+1
   01:35 Hobbsee    okay, cool
   01:35 Riddell    and if they know what they're talking about and talking about useful stuff point them to #kubuntu-devel
   01:36 Lure       Riddell: yes - we need them to fix bugs, not just complain
   01:36 Lure       ;-)
   01:36 Riddell    Lure: yes please :)
   01:36 Hobbsee    topic changed
   01:36 Riddell    kwwii: any artwork stuff to bring up?
   01:36 Hobbsee    Riddell: right, gotcha
   01:37 Riddell    freeflying: you had something to bring up?
   === Hobbsee has more as well
   01:37 freeflying Riddell: the grub install failure
   01:37 kwwii      Riddell: well, I would like to know where to go next
   01:37 Riddell    freeflying: I've not seen grub fail to install, is this text installer or ubiquity?
   01:37 kwwii      I guess the installer
   01:37 freeflying Riddell: text installer, I've been asked times
   01:38 Riddell    freeflying: don't know I'm afraid, if you still have the problem with beta 2 let me know and i'll look into it
   01:38 Riddell    kwwii: yes, artwork for ubiquity would be cool
   01:39 Riddell    would be fun to have kde ubiquity looking better than gtk ubiquity :)
   01:39 kwwii      :-)
   01:39 Riddell    kwwii: example content would be good to have soon
   01:39 Riddell    and not very difficult, you just need to learn some basic .deb packaging
   01:40 kwwii      I guess you still need the different icon sizes for adept notify and spresso
   01:40 Riddell    kwwii: yeah, please
   01:40 kwwii      Riddell: what kind of content do we want?
   01:40 freeflying Riddell: knet seems not stable enough now
   01:40 Riddell    kwwii: well, we have adept notifyer icon but if you have an svg of it that would be good to have for soures sake
   01:40 Riddell    kwwii: apt-get source example-content
   01:41 Riddell    kwwii: and make kubuntu versions of anything with an ubuntu theme
   01:41 kwwii      Riddell: yeah, seen that...kind of a mix of strange things :-)
   01:41 Riddell    kwwii: if you have ideas for cool things in there that would be fun, but it's mostly so people can easily test that the apps all work
   01:41 Riddell    Hobbsee: you have an item?
   01:42 Hobbsee    Riddell: is wlassistant going to go itno main?
   01:42 kwwii      I mean, we could put all the svg sources from all the graphics in one place as well...kinda like a dapper-artwork-source package
   01:42 Hobbsee    urgh, it's unreviewed, as is knm.
   01:42 Riddell    Hobbsee: yes, it's been reviewed and they said they'd be looking at anastacia tomorrow or next week so it'll go in very soon
   01:42 Hobbsee    excellent, so the wiki page isnt up to date
   01:43 Riddell    Hobbsee: if you look at the individual pages it should say reviewed at the bottom
   01:43 Hobbsee    i therefore suggest that we remove kwifimanager from the kmenu
   01:43 Riddell    Hobbsee: if it's not been put on the MainReviewQueue page in the right place please fix that
   01:43 Hobbsee    seeing as it's depreciated, and has never worked very well
   01:43 Riddell    Hobbsee: yes, I'll drop kwifimanager as soon as wlassistant is in
   01:43 Hobbsee    will do
   01:43 Hobbsee    and what about those bug reports?  kill them as unsupported?
   01:43 freeflying Riddell: how about include ktranslator in main
   01:44 Riddell    Hobbsee: it'll still be in universe, but in practicce we can ignore them and point people at wlassistant
   01:44 Hobbsee    right, good, thanks :)
   01:44 Riddell    freeflying: what does it do?
   01:44 Riddell    well, I can guess I suppose
   01:44 Riddell    what does it do that babelfish doesn't?
   01:44 freeflying Riddell: a dictionary
   01:45 freeflying It can support many languages, and works fine
   01:45 Riddell    freeflying: please write a main inclusion report, and I'll take a look at it
   01:45 Riddell    any other business?
   01:45 Hobbsee    oh yes, someone needs to have a bit of a look at the network settings module in system settings - it keeps crashing.  my inbox is now full of bug reports :P
   01:46 Hobbsee    Riddell: not that i know of - i want breakfast!
   01:46 toma       ok, well i moved it to Meeting+1, but since i'm still up, I might as well say something about it... I can hack a little bit and would like to help out with easy todo's, but it seems difficult for me to get a grip on what you guys are doing and where I can help. I can imagen there are others also. It would be great to have easy todo's, short time frames, overseeable things.
   01:46 Hobbsee    toma: +50 million
   01:46 Riddell    Hobbsee: Lure has already been brilliant and done some fixes, but there's still more problems with it that do need fixed
   01:46 Hobbsee    Riddell: gotcha, cool
   01:46 toma       Hobbsee: ?
   01:46 Riddell    Hobbsee: but I think the crashes should have gone away so you can mark bugs as "does this still happen in beta 2"
   01:46 Hobbsee    toma: at your idea :P
   01:46 toma       Hobbsee: oki
   01:46 toma       ;-)
   01:47 Hobbsee    Riddell: yeah, i'll do that
   01:47 Riddell    toma: have you seen HelpingKubuntu?
   01:47 Riddell    it's a bit out of date now
   01:47 Kamion     freeflying: anything in the text installer won't be Kubuntu-specific
   01:47 toma       Riddell: i looked at it, but they seem like large projects iirc
   01:47 Riddell    Hobbsee: might want to wait until beta 2 is actually out first, I guess that'll happen tomorrow
   01:47 Kamion     to an extremely good first approximation
   01:47 Kamion     Riddell: it's out
   01:48 toma       (hmm, i might be confused with malones todo's here)
   === hybrid_ [n=hybrid@unaffiliated/hybrid] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   01:48 freeflying Kamion: if can be install from hdd media more easier will be nice
   01:48 Riddell    Kamion: tomorrow?
   01:48 Kamion     Riddell: now
   01:48 Kamion     freeflying: see the installation guide
   01:49 Lure       Hobbsee: can you assign bugs in knetworkconf to kdeadmin package - I did not have time yet to dive into kdebase and meta
   01:49 Kamion     https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2006-April/000072.html
   01:49 Riddell    toma: would it help if I made more specific projects for the bug day?
   01:49 Lure       then I will be able to triage further on
   01:49 Riddell    Kamion: excellent
   01:49 Hobbsee    Lure: okay, they're currently beign filed in kdebase, and some in kdenetwork.  any i see, i'll reassign
   01:49 Kamion     note (though I know Riddell knows this already) that the beta 2 install CD is the same as beta 1, that's not changed
   01:49 toma       Riddell: i'm not sure what you mean
   01:49 freeflying Kamion: guys caomlain it more complicated than breezy do
   01:50 Lure       Hobbsee: is should be kdeadmin knetworkconf!
   01:50 ajmitch    Riddell: maybe something to quickly discuss with sfllaw
   01:50 Hobbsee    right
   01:50 Kamion     freeflying: it's a bit late here and I'm not sure I understand you, perhaps you should get those guys to file bugs about the problems they're having
   01:50 Riddell    toma: we have bug days occationally https://wiki.kubuntu.org/UbuntuBugDay
   01:50 Riddell    toma: and there's lists of things people can work on
   01:51 Riddell    toma: I might need to find some more focused things for kubuntu people to work on
   01:51 Hobbsee    Riddell: that'd be good
   01:52 Riddell    toma: I also had a request from the gnome packagers to make KDE packages use the icon cache thingy that gnome uses
   01:53 toma       Riddell: yes, just easy, maybe even boring things to do, look at http://www.englishbreakfastnetwork.org/sanitizer/reports/kde-4.0/kdeedu/klatin/index.html it is easy to do and well described...
   01:53 Riddell    as an example of a shortish todo
   01:53 Hobbsee    Riddell: discuss next meeting.
   01:53 toma       that does not sound like an easy todo ;-)
   01:54 Riddell    toma: so I can try and update HelpingKubuntu at some point and include a list of quickish things people can easily do
   01:54 Hobbsee    while i remember about it :P
   01:54 apokryphos KDE's "jj:" system for bugs is quite good, IMO
   01:55 toma       Riddell: ok, well, i dont want to give you more work, just something for everyone to think about. Note it down what you can not do yourself or dont want to
   01:55 Riddell    apokryphos: maybe we should discuss with malone people getting something like that sorted
   === Lure -> bed, good night
   === kwwii too
   01:55 Riddell    so next meeting?
   01:56 Riddell    or shall we just organise one when we feel we need one
   01:56 freeflying Riddell: one week after beta2
   01:56 Riddell    freeflying: beta 2 is out now :)
   01:56 Hobbsee    need it an hour earlier, if i'm to make all of it.  2 hour slow meeting suck...
   01:56 freeflying Riddell: then one week later
   01:56 toma       i think linuxtag will be exciting, seems like a good idea to do discuss that in the week after that.
   01:56 Riddell    so thursday 4th?
   01:57 toma       for those wo can not join
   01:57 Hobbsee    2100UTC?
   01:57 Riddell    Hobbsee: sorted
   01:57 Hobbsee    ooh, another agreement!
   01:57 Riddell    although that's quite nasty on freeflying
   01:58 Hobbsee    true, the other possibility is 12 hours away...whatever the correct time for that is
   01:58 Hobbsee    ie, au night
   01:58 freeflying Riddell: I will be used to  :)
   01:58 raphink    next meeting during LT ?
   01:58 Riddell    raphink: no, after
   01:58 Riddell    oh wait, 4th is dring
   01:58 Riddell    ok, 11th then
   01:58 Hobbsee    dring?
   01:58 Riddell    during
   01:58 Hobbsee    ah
   01:58 raphink    ok
   01:58 raphink    well the 4th is not after
   01:59 raphink    LT finishes on the 6th
   01:59 Riddell    thursday 11th at 2100UTC it is
   01:59 raphink    dring ring
   01:59 Riddell    thanks everyone

</pre>
