{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting

** #action everyone look at server guide and look for areas which need updating
** #action hallyn to talk with dannf about bug 1427406
** #action hallyn to look at bug 1432715
** #action hallyn to update QA Team section assignee to matsubara
** #action matsubara to file a bug for libpam-systemd's dependency problem

* V Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:00.

* dannf will look at bug 1427406 "data corruption on arm64" soon
* Bug 1432715 "tomcat7 ftbfs in vivd (test failures)" is waiting on a fix in Debian
* hallyn has updated the QA Team section assignee to matsubara
* matsubara did file a bug for libpam-systemd's dependency problem, but this is no longer relevant, has been marked Invalid, and he will follow up on further test failures in the QA topic later in the meeting.

==== Vivid Development ====
The discussion about "Vivid Development" started at 16:06.

** No discussion was required.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)" started at 16:09.

** matsubara reported that some tests were failing due to a UTAH time out, which we believe is a test environment connectivity issue and not a real bug. matsubara will follow up by tracking down the correct person to request a re-test.
** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/job/vivid-server-amd64-smoke-dns-server/113/console 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:12.

** smb reported that:
*** The Utopic+ nested issues on Precise host fix should be on its way into Precise. Beside that any other reports are still ongoing.
*** There were recent updates to nested kvm softlockups (bug 1413540) and some container netdevice cleanup (bug 1403152) bug which we still need to evaluate.
*** The KSM issue (bug 1435363) which was recently reported needs feedback on latest kernel.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:14.

** No events to report.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:14.

** Nothing was raised.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:15.

The next meeting will be at Tue Mar 31 16:00:00 UTC 2015. matsubara will chair.

==== Meeting Actions ====

** None

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:00 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Mar 24 16:00:06 2015 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
16:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
16:00 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
16:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
16:00 <rbasak> everyone look at server guide and look for areas which need updating 
16:00 -!- strikov has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:00 <gaughen> 0/
16:00 <strikov> 0/
16:01 <rbasak> I'm not sure what further action to take here, apart from reminding everyone to do this.
16:01 <rbasak> hallyn to talk with dannf about bug 1427406 
16:01 <ubottu> bug 1427406 in mysql-5.6 (Ubuntu Vivid) "data corruption on arm64" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1427406
16:01 -!- jdstrand [~jamie@ubuntu/member/jdstrand] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
16:01 <gnuoy> o/
16:01 <rbasak> This one has been assigned to me, but I don't really have any action to take unless someone can present a patch.
16:01 -!- smb has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:01 <zul> hi
16:02 <rbasak> If it's MySQL upstream related, then trying ryeng on #debian-mysql on OFTC may be helpful.
16:02 <hallyn> dannf: says he can look at it in a few days (i believe)
16:02 <hallyn> otherwise i can try to look deeper next week.  but i'm really out o fmy element there
16:02 <dannf> hallyn, rbasak - yes, which will likely start with me asking upstream
16:02 <rbasak> OK. I'll unassign for now.
16:03 <rbasak> hallyn to look at bug 1432715 
16:03 <ubottu> bug 1432715 in tomcat7 (Ubuntu Vivid) "tomcat7 ftbfs in vivd (test failures)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1432715
16:03 <hallyn> it's present in debian as well
16:04 -!- jdstrand has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:04 <hallyn> the debian bug hopes to post a fix over the weekend
16:04 <gnuoy> o/
16:04 <hallyn> (of course that was last weekend)
16:04 -!- sforshee has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:05 <rbasak> hallyn to update QA Team section assignee to matsubara 
16:05 <hallyn> done
16:05 <rbasak> matsubara to file a bug for libpam-systemd's dependency problem 
16:05 <jamespage> o/
16:05 <jamespage> late as usual - sorry
16:05 <matsubara> rbasak, I filed bug 1433190 but that's been invalidated
16:05 <ubottu> bug 1433190 in systemd (Ubuntu) "Vivid server smoke tests failing due to unmet dependency in libpam-systemd" [Undecided,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1433190
16:06 <matsubara> rbasak, and the smoke tests are not failing anymore with that error
16:06 <rbasak> matsubara: OK, it should be safe to leave it then? Thanks.
16:06 <matsubara> they are failing for other reasons now which I'll raise in the QA section
16:06 <matsubara> yep, I think so
16:06 <rbasak> OK
16:06 <rbasak> #topic Vivid Development
16:06 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Vivid Development
16:06 <rbasak> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
16:06 <rbasak> #subtopic Release Bugs 
16:06 <rbasak> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
16:07 <rbasak> Anything in that list that needs discussion?
16:08 <rbasak> #subtopic Blueprints
16:08 <rbasak> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html
16:08 <rbasak> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server
16:08 <rbasak> Any blueprints that need discussion?
16:09 <rbasak> caribou is out this week, so we'll skip the Server and Cloud Bugs topic unless anyone else wants to step up?
16:09 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
16:09 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
16:09 <matsubara> rbasak, some smoke tests are failing due to a UTAH time out
16:10 <matsubara> for example http://d-jenkins.ubuntu-ci:8080/job/vivid-server-amd64-smoke-dns-server/113/console
16:10 <matsubara> in general the test pass, so I think this is due to failure to reach the archive (scroll up in that console log)
16:10 <rbasak> #link https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/job/vivid-server-amd64-smoke-dns-server/113/console
16:11 <matsubara> not sure if there's an action here other than keeping looking at the logs and see if any of those are real failures
16:11 <rbasak> matsubara: can you request a retest?
16:12 <matsubara> I don't seem to have that permission
16:12 <rbasak> It certainly does look like a test environment connectivity issue to me.
16:12 <rbasak> matsubara: shall we leave it to you to get a message to the right person to request a retest?
16:12 <rbasak> Let's move on for now.
16:12 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) 
16:12 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
16:12 <matsubara> rbasak, ok
16:12 <matsubara> thanks rbasak
16:12 <smb> The Utopic+ nested issues on Precise host fix should be on its way into Precise. Beside that any other reports are still ongoing. There were recent updates to nested kvm softlockups (bug 1413540) and some container netdevice cleanup (bug 1403152) bug which we still need to evaluate. The KSM issue (bug 1435363) which was recently reported needs feedback on latest kernel.
16:13 <ubottu> bug 1413540 in linux (Ubuntu) "Trusty soft lockup issues with nested KVM" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1413540
16:13 <ubottu> bug 1403152 in linux (Ubuntu) "unregister_netdevice: waiting for lo to become free. Usage count" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1403152
16:13 <ubottu> bug 1435363 in linux (Ubuntu) "KSM causing performance and instability issues" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1435363
16:13 <rbasak> Thanks. Any questions for smb?
16:13 <rbasak> Any other discussion on this topic?
16:14 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
16:14 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
16:14 <rbasak> I'm not aware of anything coming up. Does anyone have any events to add?
16:14 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion
16:14 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
16:14 <rbasak> Anything else from anyone before we close?
16:15 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
16:15 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
16:15 <rbasak> The next meeting will be at Tue Mar 31 16:00:00 UTC 2015. matsubara will be chairing.
16:16 <rbasak> Thanks all!
16:16 <rbasak> #endmeeting
16:16 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
16:16 <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Mar 24 16:16:04 2015 UTC.
16:16 <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-03-24-16.00.moin.txt
</pre>
