{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** (none)
* Wily Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

The meeting was very short with little that needed discussion.

* matsubara will be performing SRU verification on bug 1443735 "recordfail false positive causes headless servers to hang on boot by default"

* The ODS for Tokyo submission is open

* No meeting actions were assigned.

* The next meeting will be on Tue Jul 7 16:00:00 UTC 2015 in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
17:00 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
17:00 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
17:00 <rbasak> No actions from previous meeting
17:00 <rbasak> #topic Wily Development
17:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 30 16:00:10 2015 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
17:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
17:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
17:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
17:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Wily Development
17:00 <rbasak> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
17:00 -!- pmatulis has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:00 -!- sforshee has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:00 <rbasak> Any general Wily Development issues to discuss before we go to the release bugs?
17:00 <rbasak> #subtopic Release Bugs 
17:00 <rbasak> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
17:01 <rbasak> I see six bugs. Anything in here that needs discussing?
17:02 <rbasak> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
17:02 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
17:02 <rbasak> caribou: over to you
17:02 <caribou> rbasak: nothing on my side for this week
17:02 <rbasak> OK, thanks.
17:02 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
17:02 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
17:02 <rbasak> matsubara: anything from you?
17:03 <matsubara> hey there, nothing new to report from the smoke test front. I'll be doing verification for bug 1443735 SRU later on today.
17:03 <ubottu> bug 1443735 in grub2 (Ubuntu Vivid) "recordfail false positive causes headless servers to hang on boot by default" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1443735
17:03 <matsubara> rbasak, that's all from me.
17:03 <rbasak> Great, thanks!
17:03 <matsubara> np
17:03 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) 
17:03 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
17:03 <smb> No news here is there are no questions / requests...
17:03 -!- MatrixBridge2401 has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:03 <smb>  s/is/if/
17:03 <rbasak> Does anyone have anything for the kernel team?
17:04 -!- rharper has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:04 <rbasak> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
17:04 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
17:04 <rharper> \o
17:05 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
17:05 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
17:05 <rbasak> Nothing? :)
17:05 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion
17:05 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
17:05 <rharper> rbasak: at least for the upcoming papers, the ODS for Tokyo submission is open
17:06 <rbasak> OK
17:06 <rbasak> Does anyone have anything planned for ODS?
17:06 <rharper> I'm sure hallyn will do something with lxd =)
17:06 <rbasak> I look forward to hearing about it :)
17:06 <hallyn> uh, yeah
17:06 <hallyn> no doubt
17:07 <hallyn> actually i'd assume zul will
17:07 <rbasak> Anything else for upcoming CFPs, events, or open discussion?
17:07 <zul> hallyn: erm...yeah
17:07 <zul> who wouldnt want to go to the future...i mean tokyo
17:08 <rharper> zul: +1
17:08 <hallyn> +1
17:08 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
17:08 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
17:08 <rbasak> The next meeting will be at Tue Jul 7 16:00:00 UTC 2015
17:08 <rbasak> matsubara will chair
17:09 <rbasak> Thanks all
17:09 <rbasak> #endmeeting
17:09 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
17:09 <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Jun 30 16:09:03 2015 UTC.
17:09 <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-06-30-16.00.moin.txt
</pre>
