{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

 
   03:36 Gloubiboulga     hi !
   === zell1983 [n=zell1983@host30-78.pool8258.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:37 freeflying       Gloubiboulga: hi, congrats
   === j_ack [n=nico@p508DC2DC.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:37 Gloubiboulga     hi freeflying, thanks !
   03:38 janimo           hi all
   03:38 janimo           congrats to Gauvain!
   === Jacopo_Smp_md_On [n=Jacopo@host-84-222-110-77.cust-adsl.tiscali.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:38 Gloubiboulga     thanks janimo !
   03:38 Gloubiboulga     Just did my first upload
   03:39 janimo           great!
   === janimo looks
   03:39 freeflying       Gloubiboulga: nice :)
   === doc_ [n=doc@CPE-72-128-84-225.wi.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:39 Gloubiboulga     janimo, sorry, not a Xubuntu one ;)
   03:39 janimo           yeah, but there is time for those too )
   03:39 janimo           :)
   03:40 Gloubiboulga     yes :)
   03:40 freeflying       janimo: dose the space of xubuntu enough now?
   03:40 janimo           freeflying: enough for what?
   03:40 janimo           we have a lot of free space still
   03:40 freeflying       janimo: some scim's module
   03:40 janimo           for language support?
   03:40 janimo           sure
   03:40 janimo           just say which packages
   03:41 freeflying       great
   === _sHaDe [n=sHaDe@host249-208.pool8258.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:41 freeflying       scim-pinyin scin-anthy scim-hangul scim-chewing
   03:41 janimo           you can post to the list if you wish with the packages and a brief description of why it's needed if not obvious
   03:41 janimo           ok, are these on ubuntu/kubuntu already?
   === nomed [n=nomed@host19-194.pool8254.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:41 freeflying       no , due to the space issue
   03:42 janimo           is it ok if they go to ship and not installed by default?
   03:42 nomed            hi all
   03:42 janimo           I'd like to keep desktop default install small if possible
   03:42 janimo           hi nomed
   03:42 Gloubiboulga     hi here nomed
   03:42 freeflying       janimo: if these can be installed defaultly ,CJK users can use it directly
   03:43 janimo           ok
   03:44 freeflying       janimo:  great!
   03:44 janimo           freeflying: so right now by default CJK users cannot type in native language on ubuntu/kubuntu becaus ethese ar enot on the CD?
   03:44 janimo           I see there are two chinese one korean and one japanese right? the four packages you mentioned
   03:44 freeflying       janimo: ya, guys need download the language support packages
   03:45 janimo           freeflying: oh, so what is the improvement in dapper regarding asian languages?
   === zell1983 [n=zell1983@host30-78.pool8258.interbusiness.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["L']
   03:45 janimo           working just not fitting on CD? did they not even work ok so far?
   03:45 freeflying       janimo: guys needn't configure anymore
   03:45 janimo           oh, you needed to tweak X/fontconfig and such?
   03:45 freeflying       if they choose download language suppot package , everything is okey
   03:46 freeflying       janimo: needn't
   03:46 janimo           besides these which are input methods, is there anything missing right now from xubuntu default?
   03:46 janimo           fonts?
   03:46 freeflying       the are in desktop seeds
   03:47 janimo           ok I'll add these 4 packages to xubuntu-desktop, seems to be 4Mb total
   03:47 freeflying       janimo: if you have enough space , include language-pack-gnome-CJK would be better  :)
   03:48 janimo           freeflying: there's no other reason for them not being on the ubuntu CD right?
   03:48 janimo           like quality issues ?
   03:48 freeflying       janimo: no others
   03:48 janimo           I guess not if they're in main
   03:48 freeflying       no
   === JanC [n=janc@lugwv/member/JanC] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:48 janimo           freeflying: language-pack gnome ?
   03:48 janimo           that's mostly for gnome apps right?
   03:48 janimo           granted abiword is in there too and gaim
   03:49 freeflying       janimo: then what for xfce4's i18n ?
   03:49 janimo           freeflying: those are small enough (a few 100Kb per language) that are put directly in the base langpacks
   03:49 janimo           no more than 300K/lang
   03:50 freeflying       janimo: then language-support-CJk
   03:50 janimo           so if CHK have translated xfce they're in :)
   03:50 janimo           freeflying: sure
   03:50 janimo           till now I did not put in anything besides what's in ubuntu
   03:50 janimo           to keep the CD easily downloadable
   03:50 freeflying       janimo: with these , CJK user needn't download exrta package
   03:50 janimo           but I'll add many langpacks
   03:50 freeflying       that's great
   03:50 janimo           the top 10 languages' lang support seem to total 120-130 Mb
   03:51 janimo           that fits I think even with OOo on the CD
   03:51 freeflying       janimo: CJK is in top 10?
   03:51 janimo           well mandarin sure is :)
   03:51 janimo           top 1 I think :)
   03:51 janimo           but yes I fon;t recall the ubutu classification
   03:51 janimo           let me check
   === cyphase [n=cyphase@adsl-75-2-128-48.dsl.pltn13.sbcglobal.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:52 freeflying       janimo: xubuntu has abiword ,why include OOo
   03:52 janimo           http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/seeds/xubuntu-dapper/ship
   03:52 janimo           freeflying: OOo is not installed just on the CD. since it fits
   03:53 janimo           I got the impression from a bengali translator that, besides OOo no free office is usable in indian langauges
   03:53 janimo           is that not the same for CJK?
   03:53 freeflying       janimo: as to me , xubuntu shall use light program like goffice instead of OOo
   03:54 janimo           freeflying: I agree that it's lighter and that's the default
   03:54 janimo           but does abiword support CJK/indic languages?
   03:54 freeflying       janimo: not too well
   03:54 janimo           so what do chinese users who prefer not to write in English do? :)
   03:55 janimo           they need OOo I guess
   03:55 freeflying       abiword can write in CJK
   03:55 freeflying       but not so fine as OOo dose
   03:55 janimo           most popular languages according to ubuntu classification: zh es bn hi ar xh pt ru ja de fr
   03:55 janimo           so chinese support will be on CD definitely
   03:55 freeflying       nice :)
   03:56 janimo           ok what do we have on our agenda today?
   03:56 janimo           not on the wiki of course since that's empty :)
   03:57 nomed            http://xoomer.virgilio.it/bat/xubuntu/xfce-setting-show.png <--
   03:57 Gloubiboulga     nothing for me...
   === cyphase [n=cyphase@adsl-75-2-128-48.dsl.pltn13.sbcglobal.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:57 janimo           nomed :)
   03:57 nomed            janimo: we'll need an xubuntu-icons-theme within artwork
   03:57 nomed            for sure
   03:57 janimo           what theme does tha tuse?
   03:58 nomed            there will be really few but needed anyway
   03:58 janimo           are those new icons made for xubuntu?
   03:58 nomed            yes
   03:58 janimo           can they be part of tango itself?
   03:58 nomed            not all of them but some
   03:58 nomed            no
   03:58 janimo           what is the reason for not?
   03:58 nomed            the xubuntu specific ones no
   03:58 nomed            just generic icons
   03:59 janimo           there is a sound icon in tango already and does not look like that (whistle)
   03:59 nomed            but i have still to talk to dobay about this
   03:59 janimo           what is the situation in current mcs-manager?
   03:59 nomed            dobey even
   03:59 janimo           where does it fallback to?
   03:59 nomed            orrible
   03:59 ogra             did you guys see that you are at place 4 on distrowatch ?
   03:59 ogra             http://distrowatch.com/index.php?dataspan=1
   03:59 janimo           yes, but more techinaclly? :)
   03:59 freeflying       janimo: dose xubntu has a network-con tool
   03:59 nomed            i'll write a mail to xfce-devel
   03:59 ogra             (for the 7 day stats)
   03:59 janimo           ogra, yeah somewhat under our expectations ;)
   03:59 Gloubiboulga     ogra, yep :)
   === ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Xubuntu | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 27 Apr 20:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 27 Apr 22:00 UTC: Kubuntu | 03 May 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 04 May 02:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 10 May 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu
   04:00 ogra             janimo, well, its hard to beat ubuntu :)
   04:00 janimo           nomed, writing to xfce devel would be really great
   04:00 janimo           ogra, ;)
   04:00 nomed            janimo: tecnically xfce-mcs-setting is the devil
   04:00 janimo           but really I think xubuntu is overhyped :)
   === janimo talks like a gentoo zealot
   04:01 nomed            it can use icons that don't exist
   04:01 nomed            :)
   04:01 ogra             janimo, it has buntu in its name, thats ebnough for a hype :)
   04:01 janimo           nomed, if upstrem could fix that code to use saner icon names which can be found in tango/icon-spec we'd be further ahead
   04:01 janimo           I'd prefer that instead of changing tango to some other theme at this point
   04:01 janimo           and possibly incur other breakage
   04:02 janimo           or even have poeple not like it
   04:02 janimo           ogra, and an X. Never underestimate the power of the letter X in marketing
   04:02 nomed            janimo: you do not need to change tango
   04:02 janimo           most of the reason why XMl is popular IMHO
   04:02 ogra             hehe
   04:02 janimo           nomed, so tango will be the fallbak?
   04:02 nomed            they need to fix that issue
   04:03 janimo           look in xubuntu first then fallback to tango?
   04:03 nomed            janimo: back to the beginning :)
   04:03 janimo           if so does that not mean less performance?
   04:03 nomed            xubuntu icons theme in xubuntu-artwork :)
   04:03 nomed            fallback --> tango
   04:03 nomed            anyway the dialog icons issue is still there
   04:03 nomed            as those icons are hardcoded
   04:04 janimo           nomed, ok please write to xfce-devel about this
   04:04 nomed            the only solution at the moment is to patch source
   04:04 janimo           I suppose they'd like to fix that too
   04:04 janimo           as they seem to use tango
   04:04 nomed            me too
   04:04 janimo           indeed the mcs manager is out of sync with the rest if I think about it
   04:04 nomed            i'll continue a thread that  got 43 answers :)
   04:04 janimo           ok :)
   04:04 nomed            it was at a good point :)
   04:04 janimo           they seemed positive generally right?
   04:04 nomed            absolutely yes
   04:05 janimo           I am looking at desktop icons in the meantime
   04:05 janimo           launchers and removable media
   04:05 janimo           nomed, ok thanks.let's see what they say and then go on.
   04:05 nomed            i would see even hd .. not removable ..
   === strapal [n=strapal@dsl51B798CB.pool.t-online.hu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:06 janimo           nomed, I mean behaviour
   04:06 janimo           they do not automatically show up and things like that
   04:06 nomed            uhhh ..
   04:06 nomed            k
   04:06 janimo           in the meantime talk to dobey if it's possible to get some of these into tango itslef
   04:06 nomed            janimo: i'm sure there is a bug on that code
   04:06 janimo           makes our job easier long term
   04:06 janimo           nomed, yes there is
   04:06 nomed            janimo: yes it's possible
   04:06 janimo           but brian/benny don't havetoo much time to debug
   04:06 nomed            i have already the legacy xml file
   04:07 janimo           especially sine it seems to work for them
   04:07 nomed            ao it may depend on dbus
   04:07 nomed            s/ao/so
   04:08 nomed            ahh and tango upstreamer will include that patch as soon as i send it to him
   04:08 nomed            i'm just waiting a steady state :)
   04:08 janimo           great :)
   04:08 janimo           than daniel will upload it to ubuntu and we're better
   04:09 nomed            i think then some artist should play with xubuntu images
   04:09 nomed            they need to be all fixed
   04:10 janimo           which images?
   04:10 janimo           current artwork?
   04:10 nomed            wallpaper, usplash, logo and so on
   04:10 janimo           hmm do you not like jmak's work?
   04:10 nomed            they 're done but they've even small issues
   04:11 janimo           he is the single artist so far who actively participated
   04:11 janimo           since the beginning
   04:11 nomed            janimo: the usplash could be strongly improved
   04:11 janimo           nomed I agree but usplash looks ugly because of small res no?
   04:11 nomed            not really
   04:11 janimo           although ubuntu usplash is nicer
   04:11 nomed            it's while the artist convert the image to an idexed one
   04:12 nomed            it's possible to get a really better resolution
   04:12 janimo           aha
   04:12 nomed            i've seen images on 16c that were the same as the original one
   04:12 janimo           we may need to tell jmak how to actually test the usplash so he sees the result himself
   04:12 nomed            that depends on how the artist can use gimp inkscape and such apps
   === luzi_away is now known as luzi
   04:13 luzi             the problem with usplash is not resolution, it's the 16 colors!
   04:13 nomed            luzi yes
   04:13 nomed            but ex
   04:13 nomed            the usplash i checked had a color map with a lot of red and pink
   04:13 nomed            and i don't see red or pink in xubuntu usplash
   04:14 nomed            that means the palette could be optimized
   04:14 nomed            and consequentely the image resolution
   === dsas [n=dean@host81-158-82-72.range81-158.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:14 nomed            if you have 16 c ..
   04:14 nomed            but you use just 4 c from that palette ...
   04:15 janimo           nomed, please talk to jozsef or luzi about this and see if you can sort it out
   04:15 janimo           and when you're all satisfied I'll upload :)
   04:15 nomed            janimo: i wrote a mail
   04:15 janimo           ok
   04:16 nomed            but i need they contact me or just replay :)
   04:16 nomed            luzi if you're fine with it we can talk a bit at #xubuntu later
   04:16 luzi             ok
   04:17 nomed            luzi there is a small issue on the official xubuntu logo
   04:17 nomed            have u seen it ..
   04:17 nomed            ?
   04:17 luzi             what issue?
   04:18 nomed            https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperXubuntuLogo
   04:18 nomed            take a look on the left part of that circle :)
   04:18 nomed            maybe it's me ...
   04:18 mjg59            It looks like the "head" is offset from the "body"
   04:19 luzi             ok, i see it now!
   04:19 luzi             i'll fix it.
   04:19 nomed            then i was thinking that as xfdesktop supports color background
   04:19 janimo           anything else?
   04:19 nomed            the wallpaper could just be a trasparent layer ..
   04:20 nomed            luzi what do u think ?
   04:20 nomed            (as the smoke one )
   04:20 janimo           Gloubiboulga: any plans regarding xfce uploads this week?
   04:20 nomed            if i' not wrong
   04:20 janimo           xfburn. thunar plugins?
   04:21 nomed            janimo: there is a new version of verve panel plugin
   04:21 janimo           nomed, I know
   04:21 sladen           nomed: you get 14 colours, which is good enough for a gradient (hence the kubuntu one is shades of blue and the ubuntu one is shades of brown/gold)
   04:21 nomed            but checking it i do not see any reason to upload it
   04:21 Gloubiboulga     janimo, xfburn is still broken, and I have no answer on Xfce bugzilla
   04:21 janimo           I kind of expect upstream to aply the xfrun dbus patch already so verve makes more sense
   04:21 janimo           Gloubiboulga: did you file abug on xfburn?
   04:21 nomed            ahh ok
   04:21 Gloubiboulga     janimo, yes
   04:21 janimo           in what way is broken? I used it to burn some isos this week
   04:21 janimo           better than graveman which crashes
   04:22 Gloubiboulga     janimo, if it's build from SVN it's ok, buit if I use make dist or make distcheck it FTBFS
   04:22 janimo           Gloubiboulga: oh I remember. autotools madness
   04:22 Gloubiboulga     yep
   04:22 nomed            sladen: i agree
   04:22 Gloubiboulga     I'll try to have a look at this
   04:22 highvoltage      ogra: are you saying that my old theme looks shitty?
   04:23 Gloubiboulga     janimo, screenshooter and media-tag plugins are ready
   04:23 ogra             highvoltage i'd never say that !
   04:23 highvoltage      sorry, please ignore tha!!!
   04:23 nomed            the xubuntu png should just use better the color map
   04:23 janimo           Gloubiboulga: does screenshooter work?
   04:24 Gloubiboulga     janimo, yep, but there's an icon issue
   04:24 janimo           I ddi not check the last release if they improved on what i ported
   04:24 janimo           gnome-screenshot is used no?
   04:24 Meyer_           todas
   04:24 janimo           that is in most icon themes
   04:24 Gloubiboulga     janimo, not in the Xfce one
   04:25 Gloubiboulga     I had to install the gnome icons package to see the plugin in the panel
   04:25 nomed            Gloubiboulga: there is gnome-screenshoter in Rdent
   04:25 Gloubiboulga     nomed, hm... I didn't see it
   04:25 janimo           I see s stock-screenshot
   04:25 nomed            find /usr/share/icons/Rodent/ | grep shoot
   04:26 nomed            applets-screenshooter.png sorry
   04:26 nomed            Gloubiboulga: anyway we can add the icon you need i guess
   04:26 nomed            with the name that 's on the desktop file
   04:26 janimo           hmm I explicitely changed that tpo gnome-screenshot back then
   04:26 janimo           I wonder why
   04:27 janimo           we shoulduse whatever name is in tango for screenshot
   04:27 janimo           that is: nothing
   04:27 nomed            janimo: we can even use the name that is desktop file and add it to xubuntu icons theme
   04:27 luzi             nomed: the logo issue is fixed.
   04:28 nomed            so you do not need to add any patch
   04:28 nomed            luzi thanks :)
   04:28 luzi             nomed: oops, i just saw that the bar is not right yet...
   04:29 Gloubiboulga     I'll check again
   04:29 Gloubiboulga     nomed, right, seen it :)
   04:31 janimo           Gloubiboulga: when they're ready put them online
   04:31 janimo           so I can look at them, and then you can upload :)
   04:31 Gloubiboulga     janimo, ok
   04:34 Gloubiboulga     janimo, do you want a package for the thunar archive plugin too ?
   04:34 janimo           sure
   04:34 Gloubiboulga     ok
   04:34 janimo           although we need to think where it would fit better
   04:34 janimo           single package which depends on fle roller for now?
   04:35 janimo           I guess since it does not work yet with xarchiver it cannot be part of thunar or xarchiver
   04:35 Gloubiboulga     I don't see what else we could do for the moment
   04:35 Gloubiboulga     yes
   04:35 janimo           we could sync xarchive from debian as it has cmd line ooptoins and try that
   04:35 janimo           anyway if xarchiver is bugged it'd be good to have that as a fallback in universe
   04:35 Gloubiboulga     true
   04:36 janimo           I'll file a sync requets (should have done it along with xarchiver)
   04:36 janimo           arrrgh. two projects trying to make two similar gtk only archivers and none of them being done yet :(
   04:36 janimo           so lets' at least have the thunar plugin in and test it with file roller
   04:37 Gloubiboulga     ok
   04:37 janimo           at least that works\
   04:37 janimo           thanks\
   04:37 nomed            janimo: the xarchiver devel contacted me few h ago
   04:37 janimo           nomed, one good news and a bad news? or soemthing like that ;) ?
   04:38 nomed            i was next to convince him to release something in the mean time ..
   04:38 janimo           but then he said no ?
   04:38 nomed            and he suddenly changed his mind
   04:38 janimo           well there are a few lessons learned for dapper+1 anyway
   04:38 nomed            anyway ... exactly
   04:38 janimo           not just the xarchiver one but some oethers too
   04:38 janimo           'do not trust upstream'
   04:38 janimo           actually one lesson :)
   04:39 nomed            he was upset becouse of xarchiver is not in xubuntu yet
   04:39 nomed            eheh yep
   04:39 janimo           he was upset?
   04:39 janimo           well xarchiver is in ubuntu when it's in main
   04:39 janimo           which may be tdoay or next week depending on when colin has time to put it in
   04:39 janimo           but him being upset?
   04:40 janimo           how about making the thing work first? :)
   04:40 janimo           is that the original dev (colossus) or the new one (stefan)?
   04:40 janimo           I assume colossus.
   === strapal [n=strapal@dsl51B798CB.pool.t-online.hu] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   04:40 janimo           if so he should just release with a stable gui and cmd line options
   04:41 janimo           then wonder about how to optimize for archibves with 250K  files in them which only exist in benchmarks
   04:41 nomed            janimo: colossus
   04:41 janimo           is he not the main dev now?
   04:41 nomed            that's exclty what i told him
   04:41 nomed            he "is"
   04:42 janimo           it would have been better if he developed alone and released 0.4 in time imho
   04:42 janimo           it looked like it was right on track
   04:43 nomed            yes
   04:43 nomed            i dunno why he forgot he was the devel :)
   04:43 nomed            and the other guy should just help him ...
   04:45 janimo           probbaly has no time
   04:45 janimo           which is understandable
   04:46 janimo           but anyweay if someone wants to make our release, he needs to take freeze dates into account
   04:46 janimo           at least a bit
   04:46 janimo           it's ready when it's ready is a nice quote but won't help in our case
   04:47 nomed            janimo: i guess the devels have some script to add that to emails :)
   04:48 janimo           :)
   04:49 nomed            could we consider the meeting over ?
   04:49 luzi             i was going to ask about the translation of the desktop guide
   04:49 luzi             i feel it's not quite ready yet.
   04:50 janimo           yes I thin kit can be over antie now
   04:50 janimo           anytime
   04:50 janimo           luzi, ah yes
   04:50 janimo           there are no parts which are ready at all?
   04:51 janimo           chapters which are more or less like in ubuntu desktop guide
   04:51 luzi             the 'guided tour' is nearing completion, the other ones not quite yet.
   04:51 janimo           where I assume translations could be copied too ;)
   04:51 janimo           luzi, ok whenever you're reday
   04:51 luzi             what is the latest it should be ready?
   04:52 janimo           we don;t have a date since we did not have a strict schedule as ubuntu
   04:52 janimo           so all I can say ASAP :)
   04:52 luzi             ok :)
   04:52 janimo           but considering that the guide is smaller than ubuntu's
   04:52 janimo           and parts can be taken from there by translators do not stay up at night or something
   04:52 janimo           only if you like that :)
   04:53 janimo           but whenever you feel some parts are ready ping xubuntu and the doc list so people can start on it
   04:53 luzi             i like to work at night, actually :o)
   04:53 luzi             ok, i'll do that.
   04:53 janimo           I expect the guide can be translated on a new language in 2 days by a person no?
   04:53 luzi             yeah, i think so.
   04:53 janimo           s/on/in/
   04:53 janimo           so there is time actually
   04:54 janimo           but the sooner it;'s done the sooner users read it and give feedback
   04:54 janimo           should I upload the guide as is now?
   04:54 janimo           whenever you think there' new upload worthy material ping me
   04:54 janimo           either mail or the list
   04:55 luzi             ok, i think we'll wait another week or so.
   04:55 luzi             janimo, what are we going to do about the 'help' buttons in the gui parts of xubuntu-system-tools?
   04:55 janimo           luzi, good question
   04:56 luzi             it would be great to have it open the guide in a browser
   04:56 janimo           I though about hiding them
   04:56 janimo           would that be bad?
   04:56 nomed            janimo: exo-open like ?
   04:56 janimo           if not whip up a smal dialog
   04:56 nomed            if there is html doc i think it could shows up that ..
   04:56 nomed            no ?
   04:56 janimo           we cannot depend on yelp, and the docs  are not plain html
   04:56 nomed            ohhh
   04:56 janimo           I think it is yelp markup
   04:56 janimo           html would be nice
   04:57 nomed            janimo: that's strange
   04:57 nomed            as all the xfce help stuff is in html
   04:57 janimo           first I'd like to see xubuntu-system tool sin main though
   04:57 nomed            ahh wait
   04:57 janimo           got to find a clean way to make multi builds from the g-s-t package
   04:57 nomed            xubuntu-system-tool is in yelp markup ?
   04:58 janimo           well gnome-system-tools docs are
   04:58 janimo           end in .xml anyway
   04:58 nomed            janimo: i guess it could be considered somehow esential
   04:58 janimo           /usr/share/gnome/help/network-admin/es/network-admin.xml
   04:58 janimo           the help?
   04:58 nomed            ubiquity suggests that
   04:58 nomed            no xubuntu-system-tools
   04:58 janimo           well sure it;'s essential
   04:59 janimo           but not because of ubi since it only recommends it
   04:59 janimo           but so that people can config the network interface without the ocmmand line
   04:59 janimo           mostly, there are other nice tools
   04:59 janimo           so if we have them in and no help I am still happy
   05:00 nomed            that's sure
   05:00 luzi             i think we should a) have it open the correct section of the xubuntu desktop guide in a browser b) if not possible , hide buttons
   05:01 nomed            or even hide it if yelp is not installed (b.a ) :)
   05:02 janimo           Gloubiboulga: care to answer to the kb layout mail?
   05:02 janimo           by JMak
   05:02 Gloubiboulga     janimo, ok
   05:02 janimo           ok , once we have those tools on the CD I'll do a) or b)
   05:02 luzi             great

</pre>
