{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC+1
{{{
10:04	Keybuk	ok
10:04	Keybuk	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070621
10:04	Keybuk	let's get started
=== agoliveira would like to go to bed
10:05	Keybuk	any additional agenda items from anyone?
10:05	fabbione	nope
10:05	heno	bug day schedule volunteers
10:05	heno	(already under other business)
=== calc is here
=== Keybuk hands calc a tardy
10:07	Keybuk	#
10:07	Keybuk	C++ guru needed for bug 121461 (blocking inkscape merge) -- keescook
10:07	ubotu	Launchpad bug 121461 in glib2.0 "linking problem on i386 vs amd64" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/121461
10:07	keescook	this is in progress, it seems, and the glib and gtkmm folks are on it.
=== dholbach hugs keescook
10:07	pitti	ah, the int vs. long issue?
10:07	keescook	it's breaking other things besides inkscape, but appears to be glib ABI breakage.  :(
10:07	calc	heh was great my first merge found a huge bug ;)
10:07	asac	keescook: great
10:08	keescook	yeah, all discovered because I was showing calc some merges with a "package I knew well and wouldn't have issues with" ha ha
10:08	calc	lol
10:08	fabbione	keescook: you win a biscuit
10:08	keescook	heh
10:09	pitti	this is tagged with tribe-2, is a fix until next Tuesday realistic?
10:09	bryce	congats calc :-)
10:09	keescook	I'm not sure.  dholbach do you know how quickly the glib folks tend to work?
10:10	dholbach	keescook: I'm sure this will be resolved quickly
10:10	pitti	this sounds like it could possibly affect lots of applications?
10:10	ogra	pfft ...
10:10	ogra	c++ only
10:11	dholbach	ogra: ....
10:11	dholbach	:)
10:11	keescook	yeah, though I'm still not 100% clear on which... is it just those that were recompiled, or will we actually see things crashing?
10:11	ogra	it will teach them to take python in the future HAHA !
10:11	keescook	ogra: it seems it's a glib ABI thing, so not just c++
10:11	dholbach	I didn't see crashes because of it yet, just ftbfs
10:11	keescook	okay, cool.
10:12	ogra	keescook, ouch
10:12	pitti	dholbach: sounds like pure luck then, always masking the higher 32 bits which are nonsense, or so :)
10:13	keescook	so, pitti, I'm not sure how to gauge the effect, but just instintively marked it tribe-2.  feel free to adjust it.
10:13	pitti	ok, so not being 'critical' seems to be justified then
10:13	shawarma	When is the Tribe-2 freeze anyway?
10:14	pitti	next Tuesday
10:14	Keybuk	shawarma: usually Tuesday
10:14	shawarma	Oh, ok.
10:14	pitti	I'll send a pre-announcement tomorrow
10:14	ogra	i'm not sure how the edubuntu CDs will look wrt ltsp ... the udeb isnt adjusted for the new ltsp stuff yet
10:14	ogra	and i had no time ot do a test install yet
10:15	Keybuk	ok
10:15	Keybuk	sounds like we have a hold on that one
10:15	Keybuk	PAM is very old (blocking at least AppArmor PAM module) -- keescook
10:15	Riddell	some stuff with new apt for adept still need juggling about but it whould be fine in time
10:16	keescook	there was discussion in Debian to get PAM up to 0.99 after Etch.  This hasn't happened yet, and blocks at least the AA pam module.
10:16	ogra	Riddell, btw since gutsy-changes doesnt work ... i added a kubuntu theme to the new ldm today :) would be nice to get some default icons for the menu functions
10:16	Riddell	ogra: ooh, will take a look
10:16	keescook	I've seen other mentions of other pam modules (ldap, etc) wanting 0.99, but I'm not sure what their state is.
10:16	pitti	ogra: oh, so it's not just me
10:16	keescook	does anyone else have any need for 0.99 PAM?
10:17	Keybuk	what's new about it?
10:17	mvo	Riddell: it seems like its working here locally, its just that xipian is blocking libept 0.5 afaics
10:17	pitti	keescook: TBH, that doesn't sound like a terribly good idea for tribe-2, unless we can be really sure to not break stuff?
10:18	keescook	pitti: sure, I didn't mean it for tribe2, I just wanted to bring it up for discussion.  should agenda items be limited to tribe-2 stuff?  i'm still new to the distro team.  :)
10:18	pitti	keescook: no, that's fine
10:18	keescook	Keybuk: it has a mess of additionally support utilities, headers, etc.  supposedly makes PAM modules easier to develop.
10:19	pitti	keescook: I just wasn't sure whether you meant 'upload the stuff tomorrow' :)
10:19	pitti	since this seems to be very intrusive, the best time would be right after tribe-2
10:19	keescook	yeah, no way, just curious if anyone had looked at PAM or needed 0.99 too.
10:19	pitti	for maximum testing exposure in gutsy without breaking the next alpha
10:20	Keybuk	pitti: though the point of the alpha is to get the maximum testing
10:20	shawarma	Keybuk: But surely only testing of things we're reasonably sure works?
10:20	Keybuk	otoh, it's hard to test things that won't build
10:20	calc	Keybuk: if pam breaks though can't test too much
10:20	pitti	Keybuk: right, but not exactly breaking it totally maybe?
10:20	shawarma	I'm guessing it'll take a while to merge a new pam package. I think I remember the ls of paches-applied/ was about an xterm full.
10:21	Riddell	mvo: that should be sorted now, maybe debtags needs given back so it can get installed
10:21	Keybuk	ok, sounds like we have a plan; keescook, can you put together a migration plan and post to ubuntu-devel if it's difficult; and a rationale of why we need it
10:21	shawarma	So getting it in before Tuesday is going to be a stretch. Getting it in *and* doing just a bit of testing before tribe is... not likely to happen, I think.
10:21	Keybuk	we can continue the yes/no discussion there easy enough
10:21	mvo	Riddell: ok, cool
10:22	Keybuk	Release readiness update -- pitti
10:22	keescook	Keybuk: okay, the rationale is not very high, that's why I wanted to bring it up -- it sounds like I'm the only one interested in it.  :P
10:22	pitti	so, there are still a couple of tribe-2 bugs
10:22	pitti	I have some questions about some of them
10:22	pitti	#109320: evms blocks access to disk devices: evms is in universe now, is this still critical/tribe2? if so, is anyone working on it?
10:22	Keybuk	I must admit, that I haven't touched either of my tribe-2 bugs
10:23	Keybuk	since we're still waiting on Upstream to finish playing
10:23	Keybuk	we need to somehow uninstall evms from people's machines who had it installed since warty
10:23	pitti	since we kicked it out, I guess we can remove the milestone, but I wanted to know whether anyone loves evms so much
10:23	keescook	if evms is in universe, and I go cripple xmms to get it into universe, that means we can lose gtk1 too.
10:23	Keybuk	tollef does, but he's not here, so let's move on quickly before he's summoned :p
10:23	Keybuk	keescook: WIN!
10:24	pitti	keescook: right, I wanted to ask about xmms, too :)
10:24	pitti	ok, I'll kick that then
10:24	pitti	related to this:
10:24	pitti	#105936: snapshot creation failure race "in use: not deactivating": keescook, you said that this doesn't happen any more? Keybuk, I understand that this is part of a major redesign work, so this might not actually happen for tribe-2?
10:24	Keybuk	pitti: it does happen, just verrrrrrry rarely
10:24	keescook	pitti: got time after meeting to discuss xmms?
10:24	Keybuk	and not on kees' computer
10:24	ogra	keswhat wuld you want to criplle on it ?
10:24	ogra	*cripple
10:24	pitti	keescook: yes, please let's
10:24	Keybuk	basically it only happens if I put a sleep (30) in one bit of code
10:24	Keybuk	but that's still not fixed enough for me
10:24	Keybuk	so yes, I plan to fix this harder
10:24	pitti	keescook: we have xmms2 in binary NEW, too :)
10:24	keescook	heh
10:25	Keybuk	pitti: oh, and I've asked mvo to ask seb to throw the compiz switch for tribe-2
10:25	pitti	Keybuk: but it doesn't sound OMG enough for me to tribe-2, unless you suddenly found a spare day to work on this? :-)
10:25	keescook	ogra: to get it into universe, I need to drop xmms-flac which is built from "flac", main.
10:25	Keybuk	just for fun
10:25	pitti	Keybuk: yeeeearrrgh
10:25	pitti	:)
10:25	keescook	ogra: so, basically, xmms loses flac file support
10:26	Keybuk	pitti: you'll like it :p
10:26	pitti	although, admittedly, compiz was *much* less evil yesterday (I tried it again)
10:26	keescook	ugh.  does compiz tell me my xterm size yet?
10:26	dholbach	apart from wnck and my terminal-shortcut it works nicely for me
10:26	mvo	yeah, repeat after me: compiz is good
10:26	pitti	I just couldn't resize windows on the window edges
10:26	Keybuk	keescook: yes, enable the resizeinfo plugin
10:26	Keybuk	mvo: in fact, that one should be on by default
10:26	keescook	\o/
10:26	shawarma	keescook: We could also be really evil and yank the headers out of xmms, put them in th flac package and put the binary package in universe, and be done with it?
10:26	mvo	keescook: there is a info plugin for this
10:26	Keybuk	(since it's new since we made the plugin list)
10:27	mvo	Keybuk: I can arrange this
10:27	Keybuk	dholbach: oh, my terminal shortcut worked just fine
=== mvo puts it on the list of default plugins
10:27	Keybuk	after I fixed the terminal-command setting
10:27	keescook	shawarma: if that works, that's great.  I just didn't have any luck making that happen.
10:27	ogra	shawarma, thats what i thought
10:27	pitti	Keybuk: so, #105936 to tribe-3?
10:27	dholbach	Keybuk: aha?
10:27	Keybuk	pitti: please
=== dholbach tries that
10:27	pitti	#121441: mysql-server-5.0: "replace" binary man page is non-free: mathiaz, is that in the works?
=== Keybuk has been using compiz (plus fusion plugins) as his primary window manager for weeks now; I'm happy with it
10:27	Keybuk	and that is a big milestone <g>
10:27	shawarma	keescook: Oh, you tried that already? Hm.. I could give it a go at some point.
10:28	mathiaz	pitti: I filed a bug with debian
10:28	pitti	mathiaz: has it always been like that, or is this something new?
10:28	keescook	shawarma: well, I didn't try xmms headers into flac, but I tried flac into xmms.
10:28	mathiaz	pitti: the man pages also have the copyright notice
10:28	heno	pitti: just found that today
10:28	heno	affects feisty too
10:28	shawarma	keescook: Ah.. I think my approach is a lot easier.
10:28	pitti	mathiaz: so, as a temporary fix those could just be dropped?
10:28	heno	so we should look at an SRU
10:28	shawarma	keescook: And hence more likely to succeed. :)
10:28	bryce	Keybuk: will the switch include logic to not turn on where compiz won't be supported (fglrx?)
10:28	keescook	shawarma: agreed.
10:28	pitti	heno: right, except that we cannot really change the package in the release
10:28	mathiaz	pitti: well - that means shipping mysql without the man pages
10:29	Keybuk	bryce: if you can work with mvo to get that done in time
10:29	shawarma	mathiaz: Is it *all* man pages?
10:29	pitti	mathiaz: where did they come from in edgy?
10:29	mathiaz	shawarma: most of them
10:29	shawarma	ffs..
10:29	pitti	mathiaz: can we ship them at all? or just not under GPL?
10:29	mathiaz	pitti: they are not under GPL
10:29	shawarma	mathiaz: Not at all, I beliave.
10:29	shawarma	pitti: ^
10:29	ogra	mathiaz, split them out
10:35	pitti	mathiaz: right, I mean, are they redistributable in the first place?
10:35	shawarma	pitti: The license says you're not allowed to change them, afair.
10:35	heno	man mysql is non-GPL for example
10:35	ogra	mysql-doc and mysql-doc-nonfee
10:35	mathiaz	pitti: it'S the same reason why debian stopped shipping the manual
10:35	pitti	if so, then we could just ship it in multiverse
10:35	pitti	shawarma: ok, that's good enough for multiverse; so we are allowed to ship them unchanged
10:35	shawarma	pitti: Ah, right.
10:35	mathiaz	pitti: ok - so we could ship the man page in mysql-doc-nonfree
10:35	pitti	heno: that sounds too complex for an SRU TBH
10:35	heno	ok
10:35	pitti	mathiaz: right; want to look into that?
10:35	mathiaz	pitti: yop
10:35	pitti	mathiaz: thanks
10:35	pitti	#119075: Root password policy for mysql: shawarma, did you hear any progress from Debian about this? what's the status on this?
10:35	pitti	that one really worries me
10:35	pitti	shawarma: can we talk about it after the meeting in #u-devel?
10:35	shawarma	I haven't taken it up with the debian dudes, yet.
10:35	shawarma	pitti: Sure.
10:35	pitti	#112994: java plugin does not work: asac, you grabbed this, but bug trail makes it unclear whether it's firefox' or java's fault
10:35	asac	pitti: i just updated it
10:35	pitti	but it doesn't sound like being a real tribe-2 blocker
10:35	asac	pitti: and set to triaged
10:35	asac	pitti: its basically a drop of legacy mozilla-firefox folder(link) that causes this ... plugin links need to be readjusted
10:35	asac	pitti: i can do the upload ... but would like to ping doko first.
10:35	pitti	asac: if that patch is everything needed, it sounds it could make it to tribe-2 very well? especially since it's not on the CD?
10:35	asac	pitti: yes ... it should definitly be done for tribe-2
10:35	pitti	asac: thanks
10:35	pitti	#119341: glxinfo command causes Xorg to abort on Dimension E520: bryce, you milestoned this, but it does not seem a super urgent thing, since it is not even reproducible?
10:35	pitti	and (let's timeshare the channel a bit)
10:35	pitti	#118745: default desktop/panel menu font sizes too small; IMHO we should really revert the current hack of changing font sizes and revert to fixed 96 DPI until X is sorted out; dholbach, WDYT?
10:35	bryce	probably not
10:35	bryce	pitti: yeah I could not reproduce it, so need to investigate a bit more
10:35	fabbione_	sorry.. adsl did shake...
10:35	dholbach	pitti: I'd prefer to hear seb128 on that
10:35	bryce	there is an upstream bug I found with the same backtrace
10:35	pitti	bryce: it has an upstream bug, so let's just wait for upstream then? fine with moving the milestone?
10:35	bryce	yup
10:36	pitti	dholbach: ok, he'll be back tomorrow, right? #u-desktop tomorrow?
10:36	pitti	ok, thanks guys; sorry for being a nuisance
10:37	pitti	Keybuk: I'm done
10:37	Keybuk	good-o
10:37	dholbach	pitti: yep
=== heno hugs pitti
=== dholbach hugs pitti
10:37	Keybuk	heno: Schedule developers for the next few Bug Days: UbuntuBugDay/Schedule
10:37	heno	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/Schedule
10:37	shawarma	I'm planning on putting out a call for server bug triaging, so I'll probably be hanging out there.
10:38	pitti	heno: it would be nice to mention the bug day's topic/focus there, so that we can subscribe when we actually have some competency to weigh in
10:38	shawarma	Where server bugs means "bugs in apache, mysql, openssh and that sort of thing".
10:38	heno	shawarma: cool, just pick a day and sign up
10:38	heno	pitti: suggestions are welcome
10:38	heno	I'd rather do it the other way around
10:39	shawarma	Oh, the bug days are specialised nowadays?
10:39	pitti	right
10:39	heno	that those who want to join can pick the topic
10:39	pitti	makes sense
10:39	shawarma	Wicked. Sign me up for Wednesday.
10:39	heno	shawarma: they don't have to be
10:39	heno	looks like we have a topic for next week :)
10:40	shawarma	\o/
10:40	bdmurray	maybe each mentor could pick a query of bugs to work on?
10:40	heno	mathiaz: can you make it then as well?
10:40	mathiaz	heno: no. I'll be offline that day.
10:40	mathiaz	heno: (travelling)
10:40	heno	ah, ok
10:41	dendrobates	I'll be there Wednesday.
10:42	heno	dendrobates: cool, so that's well covered
10:42	heno	ok, everyone knows the URL now, feel free to sign up later
10:42	Keybuk	ok, cool
10:42	Keybuk	any other business for today?
10:42	Riddell	Keybuk: could you give back debtags
10:43	Keybuk	I don't have buildd access these days
10:43	mvo	There are still some open merges left and today debianimportfreeze
10:43	Keybuk	there are, but the number of open merges is low enough not to worry I think
10:43	Keybuk	we've never hit zero
10:43	pitti	Riddell: I can
10:43	mvo	ok
10:43	Keybuk	if anyone wants to pick them up and do them, that's ok
10:43	calc	i'm working on merges as well
10:43	Keybuk	but we seem to be in a pretty good shape ABI-wise
=== mvo will spend some time tomorrow on merges
10:44	calc	need some done for my motu app
10:44	ogra	does anyone know anything about the status of gutsy-changes ?
10:44	Keybuk	ogra: dunno
10:44	calc	mvo: i'm primarily working on universe merges right now though
10:44	ogra	i pinged in #c-sysadmin but got no answer ... seems there were no mails since yesterday night 0:30 UTC
10:45	Keybuk	that sounds very much like an LP change
10:45	Keybuk	did the magic mail headers change, I wonder
10:45	pitti	ogra: I pinged Celso, but was directed to the list masters
10:45	Keybuk	that's about the time they did the rollout
10:45	pitti	changelog-closes-bugs is broken as well, I filed a bug
10:46	ogra	seems there were two rejeted mails from gutsy-changes-owner to -motu
10:46	ogra	this afternoon ...
10:46	pitti	<cprov> pitti: ouch, source are being escaped from closing-bug-code because they are being published in upload-time ...
=== mvo got some reject mails too
10:46	pitti	whatever that means
10:46	shawarma	:) YEs that sounds a bit cryptic.
10:47	bdmurray	pitti: is the changelog-closes-bugs being broken worth announcing?  will may bugs not get closed due to changes.
10:47	pitti	bdmurray: https://bugs.launchpad.net/soyuz/+bug/121606, FYI
10:47	ubotu	Launchpad bug 121606 in soyuz "changelog-closes-bugs does not work any more since today's rollout" [Critical,Triaged]
10:47	pitti	bdmurray: hm, indeed, sending it to u-d-a@ cannot hurt
10:48	shawarma	Does anyone know why we still keep the kbd-chooser source package?
10:48	shawarma	(It's in universe)
10:48	pitti	Riddell: debtags is dependency wait, nothing to give back
10:49	bryce	shawarma: wouldn't surprise me if it's just legacy
10:49	Riddell	pitti: ok, that should be sorted out now but maybe something is still holding it back, I'll work it out
10:49	pitti	Missing Dependencies:  libept-dev (>= 0.5.2)
10:49	pitti	libept-dev | 0.4.7ubuntu2 |         gutsy | amd64, i386, ia64, powerpc, sparc
10:50	shawarma	bryce: Possibly. It hasn't been touched since edgy.
10:50	Riddell	pitti: ept was waiting on xapian, which I promoted to main today
10:50	Riddell	maybe I did the promotion wrong
10:50	Keybuk	ok, we're wandering around other topics now; so let's adjourn and let those who don't want to stay up and play leave
10:50	Keybuk	thanks all}}}
