{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
<pre>
[18:02] <heno> #startmeeting
[18:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 12:02. The chair is heno.
[18:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[18:02] <heno> agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
[18:03] <heno> jcastro: openweek pitch?
[18:03] <jcastro> yes!
[18:03] <heno> we've had a range of good QA sessions lately
[18:04] <jcastro> still looking for sessions: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
[18:04] <heno> So more would be welcome, I'm sure
[18:04] <jcastro> holler at me on irc or via jorge@ubuntu.com and we'll get you scheduled
[18:04] <jcastro> oh yes, plenty of space left
[18:05] <jcastro> I've already started chasing down individuals but more volunteers would certainly be welcome
[18:05] <heno> sbeattie: an SRU verification session perhaps?
[18:05] <sbeattie> heno: yeah, possibly
[18:06] <heno> schwuk: a how-to-extend-checkbox-with-test-scripts session?
[18:06] <jcastro> note that openweek is /after/ release
[18:07] <heno> indeed - 'how to file better bugs' is always good as well then
[18:07] <heno> ok, thanks jcastro
[18:07] <heno> [TOPIC] RC release status
[18:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  RC release status
[18:07] <schwuk> heno: we could do that - we have the session logs from cr3's recent -classroom session
[18:08] <heno> we've respun images a few times already and may need a kubuntu respin again to fix OEM
[18:08] <davmor2> bar humbug I think ubuntu dvd might of borked
[18:09] <heno> it is looking to be a long evening indeed
[18:10] <heno> testing help from folks in late timezones would be much appreciated
[18:10] <heno> davmor2: broken how?
[18:11] <davmor2> stuck at 5% creating ext3 file system for / in partition #1 of scsi3
[18:11] <davmor2> but neither hd light nor dvd light are flickering
[18:12] <heno> davmor2: ok, I'll try it too after this
[18:12] <heno> did you try disk check?
[18:13] <davmor2> trying it now
[18:13] <heno> does anyone else hear any alarm bells regarding RC?
[18:13] <heno> bdmurray, ogasawara ^ ?
[18:13] <davmor2> studio is the only other issue
[18:14] <persia> I'm digging into studio now.  I'm fairly sure the wallpaper issue can be fixed post-RC.
[18:14] <ogasawara> there's bug 272896 that just got resolved upstream, but will likely need to wait for an Intrepid SRU
[18:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 272896 in linux "intrepid - after upgrade to kernel 2.6.27 i cannot upgrade nor i can navigate internet" [Unknown,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/272896
[18:14] <heno> davmor2: we've reduced it to the wallpaper and screensaver menu entry right?
[18:15] <davmor2> pretty much yes everything else seems to be fine
[18:15] <heno> ogasawara: ok, it should get a release-notes task too
[18:16] <davmor2> all the apps work as expected
[18:16] <ogasawara> heno: ok I'll add it.  I mentioned to cjwatson I write something up.
[18:16] <heno> ogasawara: thanks
[18:17] <heno> I see 4 images have completed automated testing with today's images
[18:18] <heno> we need a full run after RC is out
[18:18] <heno> ok, any other business?
[18:19] <heno> thanks everyone! record short meeting
[18:19] <heno> #endmeeting
</pre>
