{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC +1
<pre>
10:01	mdz	agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070705
10:01	Keybuk	mdz: all that I'm expecting accounted for
10:02	cjwatson	another light agenda today, though any omissions are entirely down to me this week
10:03	mdz	first up, dholbach would like to introduce his package review proposal
10:03	dholbach	I wrote the proposal up here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/CodeReviews
10:03	dholbach	the problem we're trying to solve is: we need more people doing reviews
10:04	dholbach	more reviews means more fixes, more contributors and in the end more reviewers :-)
10:04	mdz	I've looked over this previously, and I think it's a good idea
10:04	Mithrandir	is this code reviews, package reviews or both?
10:04	mdz	it's important that we take the time to review contributions from new folks, to give them the encouragement to become regular contributors
10:05	mdz	Mithrandir: reviews of contributions in the form of packages
10:05	keescook	I'm a fan of "Possible conflicts and problems will be discussed in the last minutes of the weekly Distro Team meeting."
10:05	cjwatson	we need to grow the pool of Ubuntu developers quite significantly, and this is one good way to try to ensure quality in the result
10:05	shawarma	mdz: If so, why are there is there a main/restricted section? What sort of packages would go directly into main?
10:05	keescook	there have been some main-sponsor-tagged bugs I haven't been sure how to handle.
10:05	iwj	This sounds good but it would be nice to have an idea of the standard we're judging against.  I'm certainly willing to help.
10:06	cjwatson	shawarma: patches against existing packages too
10:06	cjwatson	as well as totally new ones
10:06	mdz	in a nutshell: someone creates a new or updated package, you review it and upload it
10:06	shawarma	Ah, right.
10:06	mdz	also called "sponsorship"
10:06	iwj	`Net improvement to the distro' ?  `No howlers' ?  ...
10:06	cjwatson	basically all the stuff that gets sent to ubuntu-{main,universe}-sponsors now but actually DOING it
10:06	mdz	if you have a quick look at https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-main-sponsors
10:06	mdz	there are 46 such contributions queued for main(!)
10:06	dholbach	we will make use of bug reports in LP to keep track of reviews, so no REVU login is needed or anything
10:06	cjwatson	(in a coordinated way, gets to be part of your normal work time, etc.)
10:06	shawarma	Looking at it already.
10:07	asac	i think universe sponsoring works pretty well atm ... main definitly needs more love
10:07	mdz	it is well worth our while to act on these, as time spent reviewing a patch or two could help someone to become a new MOTU or core dev
10:07	dholbach	asac: NEW packages too
10:07	cjwatson	I think I would say that the standard ought to be that you'd be willing to put your own name to it
10:08	mdz	Launchpad is growing some new features which will make this process even more efficient
10:08	asac	dholbach: where can i find new packages? revu?
10:08	iwj	So picking one at random, bug 75765 say, the job for a reviewer is to check the patch is good and then upload it, basically ?
Launchpad bug 75765 in syslinux "syslinux should depend on mtools" [Wishlist,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/75765
10:08	mdz	cjwatson: agreed
10:08	mdz	iwj: correct
10:08	pitti	dholbach: in which aspects is that new team (code-reviewers) different from the -{main,universe}-sponsors ones?
10:08	mdz	the contributor might be a MOTU working on a package in main
10:08	iwj	cjwatson: That's a reasonable criterion.
10:08	dholbach	asac: for now we'll review bugs tagged needs-packaging which are 'fix committed'
10:08	mdz	or potentially someone new to Ubuntu entirely
10:08	cjwatson	iwj: also to get back to the reviewee with constructive criticism, and do back-and-forth
10:08	dholbach	asac: so either the package is attached a branch is linked to, or a link to the dsc file is given, so you can easily dget -x it
10:08	asac	dholbach: ah ... i see the link now
10:08	Mithrandir	it would be very nice if the quality of NEW packages was raised a bit.. I rejected about 2 out of 3 new packages last time I did source NEW.
10:08	iwj	cjwatson: Quite so.
10:09	mdz	PPAs will begin to be used for this process more and more
10:09	dholbach	Mithrandir: maybe it would help to classify the problems you're facing and add them to a wiki page, so we could work it into documentation
10:09	mdz	so that by the time a package is reviewed, we already know that it builds, and can examine the binary packages trivially
10:09	dholbach	Mithrandir: and announce 'common packaging mistakes' on the mailing list
10:09	Mithrandir	dholbach: yeah, I started by mailing -motu about it, first.
10:09	dholbach	(also cover them in the MOTU Q&A sessions)
10:09	dholbach	Mithrandir: yeah, I saw that - thanks a lot
10:09	Keybuk	dholbach: "using cdbs"
10:09	mdz	and if the package looks good, it will be possible to copy it straight into Ubuntu on the server side
10:10	iwj	If we join this team can our mail filtering distinguish `you got this mail only because it's related to a sponsors-subscribed bug' vs `you got this mail because you're a bug contact for the package' ?
10:10	dholbach	Keybuk: ROCK ON! GO CDBS! :)
10:10	cjwatson	iwj: (as an aside, it's asserted in bug 75765 that the version of syslinux now in gutsy can be built not to need mtools)
10:10	Mithrandir	Keybuk: no "forgetting to ship a licence", "wrong debian/copyright", etc.
Launchpad bug 75765 in syslinux "syslinux should depend on mtools" [Wishlist,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/75765
10:10	mdz	so that we have a very efficient pipeline for getting changes into the distro, even without direct upload privileges
10:10	kylem	what, you don't like reading interdiff? :)
10:10	iwj	cdbs--
10:10	pitti	iwj: that's possible, LP sends the reason in a header now
10:10	dholbach	iwj: joining the team will not cause mails being sent to you
10:10	Keybuk	iwj: there should be an X-Launchpad-Reason for that now
10:10	seb128	dholbach: having a wiki page with common mistake would probably work better than a mail
10:10	iwj	pitti: Yes, I saw but I don't remember whether you get two reasons.
10:10	cjwatson	X-Launchpad-Message-Rationale I think
10:11	Keybuk	indeed
10:11	Keybuk	X-Launchpad-Message-Rationale: Bug Contact (udev in ubuntu)
10:11	dholbach	you will either pick packages you're interested in, or the admins of the team will manage the load of old reviews on team members by assigning bugs
10:11	dholbach	seb128: both :)
10:11	calc	btw it would be great to get that manual partition bug fixed by tribe-3 when it shows up its a showstopper
10:11	cjwatson	X-Launchpad-Message-Rationale: Subscriber @ubuntu-sru via Bug 109073
Launchpad bug 109073 in gnome-games "Game Tali can't save scores" [Low,In progress]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/109073
10:11	cjwatson	I get that sort of thing
10:11	iwj	cjwatson: Do you get several if there are several ?  I'm struggling to find an example right now ...
10:12	cjwatson	iwj: haven't found an example or counterexample yet
10:12	dholbach	I will set the contact adress of ubuntu-code-reviewers to noreply@ubuntu.com, I think
10:12	pitti	dholbach: (repeating, it got lost) in which aspects is that new team (code-reviewers) different from the -{main,universe}-sponsors ones?
10:12	pitti	TBH I don't see the reason for yet another team
10:12	evand	calc: on it
10:12	dholbach	pitti: all the members of the team agree to do reviews
10:12	pitti	dholbach: but that's true for all three teams, no?
10:12	dholbach	pitti: so seb128 and I will assign bugs that are older than two weeks to people of the team
10:13	dholbach	pitti: no, you can be member of the other teams and just ignore bug mails
10:13	pitti	dholbach: but in that case you shouldn't be a member
10:13	asac	dholbach: you can do that for the new team too ... i find pittis point valid :)
10:13	dholbach	we have lots of teams with lots of inactive members
10:13	pitti	the very point of *-sponsors is to collect people who review, upload, and discuss already
10:13	pitti	dholbach: so let's rather clean up the existing ones
10:14	dholbach	ubuntu-code-reviewers will take care of *sponsors* bugs and needs-packaging bugs
10:14	asac	dholbach: why not sort them out and put more strict policy/procedures on the existing teams?
10:14	dholbach	pitti: do you want to throw out members?
10:14	pitti	dholbach: e. g. your new team needs to be split into main and universe, too
10:14	iwj	For bug 51468 I get only `Assignee' in the one -Rationale field despite being bug contact for the package too.
Launchpad bug 51468 in dpkg "dpkg-source doesn't respect group sticky bit" [Low,Fix released]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/51468
10:14	dholbach	asac: because I don't want to review each member's work
10:14	pitti	dholbach: no, asking everyone whether they are ok with actually doing stuff and asking them to leave the team if they don't
10:14	mdz	one of the key ideas of dholbach's proposal is that we will dedicate time on a regular basis (e.g., weekly) to doing reviews
10:14	Keybuk	iwj: I suspect it may pick the highest ranking reason?  worth asking malone people on that outside the meeting, since they can provide a definite answer
10:14	asac	dholbach: this sounds a bit like we will get new team every two years ?
10:15	cjwatson	iwj: looking at the code I believe it only ever uses the first reason
10:15	iwj	Keybuk: Mmm.
10:15	cjwatson	(lib/canonical/launchpad/mailnotification.py:NotificationRecipientSet.add()
10:15	mdz	Canonical developers will do this as part of their ongoing responsibilities, so that contributors get a quick turnaround
10:15	cjwatson	)
10:15	pitti	dholbach: that new team will accumulate cruft over time, too
10:15	dholbach	asac: no, this team is not subscribed to bugs by default, but membership points out that you are willing to get bugs assigned, etc
10:15	iwj	cjwatson: That means that if we want to have an email ping about incoming review stuff we need the email contact for the team to be a subscribable-to list.
10:15	dholbach	pitti: cruft = people?
10:15	Mithrandir	dholbach: a way would be to just make everybody's membership expire in a month's time, and anybody who's interested can just say they're interested and they'll keep.
10:15	mdz	this new team represents a different workflow
10:16	pitti	dholbach: I mean people who stay team members but get inactive
10:16	iwj	dholbach: Quote!
=== pitti apologizes for bad wording
10:17	dholbach	Mithrandir: we can have a short membership, yes
10:17	dholbach	pitti: no problem, I just didn' understand
10:17	Mithrandir	dholbach: and then make it expire in 12 months or so, like normal teams.
10:17	pitti	auto-expiration sounds like a good idea to me to avoid this problem
10:17	cjwatson	cruft != people, Soylent Green = people
10:17	ogra	lol
10:18	dholbach	as mdz already said: we have a different workflow in this team - nobody will get subscribed to bugs by default, so it will have a really small impact on your inbox, members will pick bugs they're interested in and get one assigned every now and then, if we can't keep up
10:18	asac	and what will the old teams do on top? why can't we apply this workflow to them?
10:18	mdz	I'm indifferent about the issue of how the teams in Launchpad are organized
10:19	mdz	let's focus on the proposal itself
10:19	dholbach	are there other questions about the proposal (apart from ... yes
10:19	mdz	does anyone have feedback about the idea of *your* regular participation in these reviews?
10:19	asac	yes ;)
10:19	pitti	sounds good to me in general
10:19	pitti	question is whether someone actually manages it and assigns stuff, or we just randomly pick
10:19	cjwatson	the trick will be remembering to do it on a regular basis
10:19	asac	for me too
10:19	mdz	pitti: my suggestion was that dholbach would manage the queue
10:19	cjwatson	hence tacking a reviewers meeting onto the end of the distro team meeting
10:20	seb128	pitti: we random pick and if something is not picked it gets assigned
10:20	cjwatson	(just as a convenient slot because I didn't want to suggest creating YA meeting)
10:20	fabbione	sounds sane to me
10:20	mdz	to make sure that things don't wait too long, and get handed to someone quickly
10:20	pitti	with assignments, planning and load balancing would be easier, but someone's got to do it, of course, which costs some time
10:20	mdz	I think it's simpler to have a central person take care of that, and reviewers will only need to worry about emptying their queue each week
10:21	mdz	which should be a small number of patches
10:21	cjwatson	one other point will be to remind reviewees not to just go to the last person who sponsored their patch
10:21	mdz	that way there's no polling, no forgetting to check for new reviews
10:21	mdz	you can just handle them like bugs as they come in
10:21	keescook	Is there a way to have the "Bugs related to ..." list only show the bugs still open in Ubuntu?  (e.g. 58256 is not interesting)
10:21	pitti	right
10:21	pitti	and we could even pass around the management hat after some time
10:21	cjwatson	otherwise (a) you start avoiding reviews out of the fear of being stuck with the same person again and again (b) reviewees get the benefit of multiple people's opinions over time
10:22	Mithrandir	keescook: I believe there are bugs filed about that problem.
10:22	dholbach	cjwatson: good idea
10:22	seb128	keescook: I think that's a launchpad bug
10:22	keescook	Mithrandir: 'kay.
10:22	fabbione	cjwatson: ++
10:23	kylem	cjwatson++
10:23	mdz	are there any objections to the idea of dholbach assigning the reviews to folks as they come in?
10:23	cjwatson	keescook: you can at least just skip past the ones on Debian at the top
10:23	mdz	he can take care of ensuring that nobody is overloaded, and that requests are routed to someone who knows about the package involved, if appropriate
10:23	keescook	cjwatson: yeah, true.  had just noticed that.  :)
10:24	pitti	keescook: write a greasemonkey script for us :)
=== keescook slaps his forehead
10:24	keescook	pitti: duh, of course.
10:24	pitti	(that would be heavily useful for archive bugs, too)
10:24	dholbach	it'd be nice if you joined the team, if you're willing to help out there, so there's a list of people to assign bugs to :)
10:24	cjwatson	people should also feel free to turn down reviews if they aren't last-resort-assignee and they don't know much about the package
10:25	pitti	dholbach: I'm still not convinced about getting one new team for it; we either use the existing ones, or split yours into two (main/universe) and declare the other two as dead
10:25	mdz	dholbach: we should ask for volunteers from the community, but distro team packagers are expected to do this as part of their regular work
10:25	cjwatson	there are plenty of classes of bugs I know I will be of no use reviewing :)
10:25	cjwatson	but everybody should have some they can handle
10:25	mdz	the volume is not large, when considered against the size of this team
10:26	mdz	even the current backlog is only a few reviews per developer
10:26	pitti	dholbach: thanks a lot for bringing this up; that's quite obviously a forgotten area
10:26	dholbach	mdz: ok, I'll announce the plan and ask for volunteers
10:27	dholbach	I'm happy to drop the team if that's what everybody thinks is a good idea...
10:27	mdz	dholbach: please add everyone from the distro team who is also a core developer to the team
10:27	mdz	dholbach: (whichever team you decide to use)
10:27	dholbach	I will divide the NEW packages upon the two teams too
10:27	dholbach	mdz: will do
10:27	mdz	any other questions about reviews?
10:27	seb128	dholbach: what do you mean, divide NEW?
10:28	dholbach	seb128: needs-packaging Fix Committed bugs
10:28	seb128	dholbach: new packages go to universe
10:28	dholbach	seb128: yes, but I don't want to put the whole load on people in the universe team
10:29	dholbach	pitti: I'd prefer to have ubuntu-main-sponsors@lists.ubuntu.com before I add random people to it
10:29	seb128	dholbach: right, just subscribe everybody to those ;)
10:29	pitti	dholbach: hm, do we need that list?
10:29	pitti	dholbach: we have u-devel@ and bug mail already?
10:29	dholbach	pitti: the advantage of the team is: you just get mails for bug reports that are assigned to you
10:30	dholbach	if you're in ubuntu-main-sponsors you get all mails about main sponsoring bugs
10:30	dholbach	and that's something I'd like to avoid
10:30	pitti	dholbach: not if you set an appropriate team contact address
10:30	pitti	that's a problem with either team
10:30	mdz	let's take the discussion about team structure and mailing lists to email, if we could
10:30	pitti	right
10:30	dholbach	ok
10:31	mdz	I agree that it's an important question to resolve, but we can do it as well offline I think
10:31	dholbach	yes, that's better use of our time :)
10:31	mdz	does anyone have questions about the sprint next week?
10:31	mdz	some of you will be attending for the first time
10:31	amitk	mdz: do we get to sleep?
10:31	shawarma	no
10:31	bryce	anything in particular we should be prepared for?
10:31	agoliveira	Will we be fed like at Google?... not :)
10:31	mdz	amitk: every night
10:32	Keybuk	amitk: not if you don't want to
10:32	ogra	did nobody forget their fridge magnet ?
10:32	shawarma	ogra: I had no idea!
10:32	pitti	ogra: OMG
10:32	mdz	bryce: all the things you normally don't need to worry about when working at home :-)
10:32	ogra	shawarma, there was a mail from jane
10:32	Keybuk	oh yes, everyone is supposed to bring a fridge magnet from their country/city of origin to put on the millbank fridge
10:32	kwwii	that makes two things i have to get before I leave
10:32	mdz	you need to dress yourself every day, shower occasionally, etc.
10:32	ogra	or was it from claire ?
10:32	shawarma	ogra: Before i joined, it seems.
10:32	pitti	ogra: thanks for the reminder
10:32	bryce	mdz, :-)
10:32	ogra	:)
10:32	agoliveira	Keybuk: Didn't know that!
10:32	mdz	bring an umbrella in case it rains
10:33	mdz	and a jacket; it's summer, but it sometimes gets cold and windy along the river, especially at night
10:33	agoliveira	I'll have to go shop for it because my wife hates them :)
10:33	fabbione	mdz: people from real countries can breath in the water :P
10:33	ogra	and fireproof underwear, you never know
10:33	Mithrandir	mdz: is there a big enough fridge with enough soft drinks there?
10:33	mdz	Mithrandir: there is what claire described as a "big fuck-off American style fridge"
10:33	bryce	lol
10:33	ogra	heh
10:33	Mithrandir	mdz: ah, good.
10:33	amitk	mdz: so how does the sprint work? Do we already have an agenda?
10:33	mdz	with coca-cola and diet coke in it
10:33	mdz	a coffee machine, a water cooler, etc.
10:34	kwwii	amitk: we all sit around and watch you work :-)
=== agoliveira sighs remembering Google
10:34	Mithrandir	kwwii: with whips.
10:34	cjwatson	amitk: https://wiki.canonical.com/GutsySprintLondon has agenda items
10:34	mdz	amitk: yes, there's a brief agenda to remind us of points we want to cover
10:34	cjwatson	it will be much less formal than UDS though
10:35	mdz	we get to pretend that we all work in the same office for a week
10:35	agoliveira	mdz: "pretend that we all work"? :)
10:35	Keybuk	one advantage to Millbank is that we have break-out rooms for smaller discussions
10:35	mdz	we will have a few special guests from Canonical partners dropping by to talk with us as well
10:36	mdz	you will also have the opportunity to meet some of your colleagues in other parts of Canonical
10:36	mdz	even if you've been around for a while, there are a lot of new faces in the london office
10:36	cjwatson	I would recommend bringing an Ethernet cable if you can
10:37	pitti	oh, good point
10:37	cjwatson	the office requires WPA and some wireless cards have trouble
10:37	pitti	bcm43xx -> no wpa love
10:37	ogra	are there spare keyboards, mice an ddislays in the office ?
10:37	fabbione	cjwatson: are there going to be enough ports for everybody?
10:37	mdz	especially if you insist on using a powerpc laptop
10:37	calc	cjwatson: and wpa seems to have issues in gutsy too, whee :)
10:37	pitti	cjwatson: we cannot get an exception for that week? (open wifi)
=== ogra wonders if he could bring more than one thin client
10:37	mdz	ogra: no
10:37	ogra	:/
10:37	ogra	ok
10:37	Mithrandir	calc: maybe somebody will then fix it. :-)
10:37	mdz	most everyone uses laptops
10:37	calc	Mithrandir: i hope so, i'm stuck on fiesty still
10:37	ogra	yeah, makes sense
10:37	keescook	bring a swtich too.  :)
10:37	mdz	ogra: you can have as many virtual machines as you like though
10:38	ogra	heh
10:38	keescook	*switch
10:38	ogra	mdz, you know i like real HW ;)
10:38	Keybuk	general warning
10:38	Keybuk	DO NOT plug your laptop into a blue cable
10:38	Keybuk	blue cables are BAD cables
10:38	agoliveira	?
10:38	cjwatson	mdz: when the laptop refresh benefit kicks in, I shall not be ;-)
10:38	Mithrandir	Keybuk: oh, RS422?
10:38	mdz	blue cables are PoE for the phone system
10:38	fabbione	Power over Ethernet?
10:38	Mithrandir	oh, fun.
10:38	ogra	fun
10:38	fabbione	ehhe
10:38	agoliveira	Cool
10:39	mdz	I'm excited for everyone to get together at the new office, it will be great fun
10:39	bryce	:-)
10:39	dholbach	yeah :)
10:39	ogra	yeah
10:39	ogra	we'Re a huge crowd
10:39	cjwatson	if you are scared of heights, don't go near the windows
=== ogra makes a note
=== agoliveira loves heights!
10:39	Mithrandir	can we go out on the roof?
10:39	ogra	*shudder*
10:39	mdz	the forecast for monday and tuesday calls for rain
10:39	Keybuk	Mithrandir: I don't believe so
10:39	pitti	mdz: is there a principal ban of open wifis?
10:39	mdz	pitti: you'll have to check with elmo about that
10:40	pitti	mdz: i. e. it would be bad to just hook an AP to an ethernet and use that?
10:40	mdz	but the office is well covered already
10:40	calc	ogra: http://www.subzero.com/products/detail.aspx?cid=2&productid=11 <- the fridge i like ;)
10:40	pitti	ok
10:40	bryce	Linux developers should never go near windows
10:40	Keybuk	pitti: we're on the 27th floor ... most of London would have line-of-sight with the AP
10:40	pitti	well, I'll better bring a cable then
10:40	fabbione	hmmmm
10:40	ogra	calc, a for murders etc :)
10:40	fabbione	i will need to find one... mine are all in use
10:40	ogra	*ah even
10:40	mdz	pitti: all the better to take advantage of the ridiculous internet bandwidth
10:40	agoliveira	bryce: ... or trough it ;)
10:41	cjwatson	pitti: I seem to remember asking once and being told that we couldn't have open wifi
10:41	fabbione	suggested lenght of the cable?
10:41	mdz	2m
10:41	fabbione	thanks
10:41	Keybuk	power and ethernet access has been put in place by IS, and is quite generous
=== fabbione will need to de-rack one
10:41	Keybuk	especially by hotel standards we've been previously used to
10:42	mdz	you should find it a very comfortable place to sprint
10:42	Keybuk	also, while here, set your local archive while here to the ordinary archive.ubuntu.com -- since any other traffic has to go *past* the real archive to get to the Internet anyway
=== pitti looks forward to see you all again, and the new office
10:42	dholbach	:-)
=== seb128 too
10:42	agoliveira	Any tips for first-timers in London?
10:42	fabbione	agoliveira: don't get lost?
10:42	kylem	will we have ethernet? i'm going to bring my macbook instead of my old ibm, and don't want to use buggy madwifi shit.
10:42	mdz	agoliveira: just say "sorry" a lot, and you'll be fine
10:42	cjwatson	kylem: yes
10:42	pitti	agoliveira: watch out before crossing a street, cars come from the *other* side
10:43	pitti	(seriously, that hit me more than once)
10:43	ogra	calc, i can still easily look over my fridge, but the usual german would consider that thing huge already :)
10:43	kylem	cjwatson, winning.
10:43	keescook	kylem: bring a switch or two.  :)
10:43	agoliveira	pitti: I've being on Australia :)
10:43	cjwatson	bring a cable, though there are spares
10:43	dholbach	record shops! :-D
10:43	kylem	dholbach, ohh winning
10:43	Keybuk	pitti: I hope not *hit*
10:43	mdz	don't forget your power adapter if you need one
10:43	evand	Is anyone planning on hitting LRL once they get settled in at the hotel?
10:43	kylem	evand, i'm heading up there on saturday morning.
10:43	pitti	Keybuk: no, but close enough for my taste :)
10:43	ogra	LRL ?
10:43	kylem	evand, when do you arrive?
10:43	Keybuk	LRL is about 2h travel from the hotel ;)
10:43	agoliveira	mdz: I bought one of those you showed me. I should be fine
10:43	evand	kylem: 10a
10:43	mdz	a number of Canonical folks will be at LUGRadio Live
10:43	kylem	evand, on saturday?
10:44	evand	yes
10:44	ogra	ah lug radio
10:44	kylem	evand, at heathrow?
10:44	Keybuk	evand: oh, then by all means, LRL is wonderful fun!
10:44	evand	gatwick
10:44	kylem	evand, ah, darn, do you have a GSM phone?
10:44	evand	negative, cdma
10:44	kylem	darn.
10:44	Keybuk	people heading to LRL should take my mobile number, and I'll provide necessary directions, details and help
10:44	mdz	another pro tip: check that your phone will be able to roam in the UK before leaving
10:44	kylem	i arrive at LHR at 7:30, hoping to get a 1pm train from Euston to WVH
10:44	Keybuk	(cdma does *not* work in the UK)
10:45	evand	Hrmm, perhaps I can find a working SIP client for windows mobile 6.
10:45	mdz	if not, make sure you don't get lost on the way to the hotel
10:45	mjg59	If you have an unlocked GSM phone, pay as you go SIMs are cheap and easily available
=== agoliveira have a A1200. No problem with that ;)
10:45	mdz	mjg59: and anonymous!
10:45	kylem	mjg59, is there a good place to buy an unlocked phone?
10:45	kylem	mjg59, i could do with an upgrade. heh
10:46	Mithrandir	mdz: everything related to building security and our access and such has been set up already, and we just show up?
10:46	calc	kylem: you can unlock your phone fairly easily online
10:46	mdz	random phone kiosks and (oddly enough) dry cleaners will unlock your phone for a few pounds
10:46	mjg59	kylem: Erm. I've usually used ebay.
10:46	kylem	calc, yeah, but newer phones in britain.
10:46	mdz	Mithrandir: assuming claire knows you're coming, you should be set
10:46	agoliveira	mjg59: GOod call
10:46	Keybuk	Mithrandir: front desk will provide you with visitor passes
10:46	ogra	kylem, my discunter at the corner seels unlocked no names for 111 atm
10:46	amitk	The hotel walking distance from the office, right?
10:46	iwj	So err we seem to be running into the sands here.  I hate to ask and interrupt all the banter but is still the meeting ?
10:46	Mithrandir	mdz: what time do we start?  9am at millbank or when?
10:46	Mithrandir	Keybuk: ok
10:46	mdz	amitk: yes
10:46	fabbione	we will need to renew the visitor pass every day?
10:46	mdz	iwj: this is the response to my asking whether anyone had questions about the sprint
10:46	fabbione	or is it going to be a weekly one?
10:46	shawarma	fabbione: You don't bring it home.
10:46	iwj	mdz: Yes.
10:46	shawarma	fabbione: You get one each morning.
10:47	fabbione	shawarma: ok thanks
10:47	iwj	fabbione: Be sure to leave your bombs at the big gothic building just up the street with all the `Serious Place Under The We Will Lock You Up Act' notices.
10:47	mdz	feel free to call my mobile if you have any trouble getting where you need to be
10:48	iwj	Mithrandir: I assume so.
10:48	mdz	is there any other business for the meeting?
10:48	fabbione	iwj: ROFL
10:48	Mithrandir	and, how's lunch arranged there?
10:48	mdz	Mithrandir: lunch will be catered in
10:48	pitti	just reminding everyone to look after their tribe-3 bugs now and then; we have scaringly many
10:48	Mithrandir	sounds great.
10:48	mdz	please be at millbank by 0930 monday morning
10:49	iwj	0930!  A lie-in :-).
=== agoliveira remembers that joke about british chefs, french waiters and italian drivers...
10:49	Mithrandir	when do we end for the day?
10:49	kylem	mdz, do we have any organized dinners on sunday or friday?
10:49	fabbione	mdz: 9:30 ?
10:49	fabbione	oh oh
10:49	iwj	fabbione: Don't ask, he might change his mind.
10:49	mdz	kylem: I'm not sure, since I'm not traveling. :-)  should be in the email from claire
10:49	fabbione	iwj: i am good with 9.. i can't sleep past 5/6 anyway
10:49	Mithrandir	fabbione: it's a walk from the hotel, so makes sense.
10:49	pitti	fabbione: that's lunchtime for you already, right? :)
10:49	kylem	ok.
10:49	fabbione	pitti: exactly :)
10:50	fabbione	Mithrandir: fair enough...
10:50	fabbione	it's all good
10:50	iwj	fabbione: Imagine the sprint is in Boston.
10:50	fabbione	iwj: 5/6 UTC.. my body rejects TZs
10:50	mdz	Mithrandir: depends on how much there is to do that day; going directly to dinner is common
10:50	ogra	kylem, if we dont we'll organize one ourselves ;)
10:50	Mithrandir	ok.
=== agoliveira sugests go see the transformers movie.... and duck!
10:51	keescook	agoliveira: doesn't open until the 27th
10:51	kylem	ogra, need to know when to be back in london for... if it's just monday morning, it's easier. :)
10:51	fabbione	agoliveira: it's not such a bad idea
10:51	Keybuk	Die Hard and Harry Potter are the openings here
10:51	fabbione	keescook: you kidding? it's already on the screens here
10:51	ogra	ah
10:51	agoliveira	Here too I guess
10:51	keescook	fabbione: that's correct.  I was bummed
10:51	mdz	kylem: even if there is something organized sunday night, it's not mandatory
10:51	kylem	mdz, ok, that's more or less what i wanted to know.
10:51	kylem	cheers.
10:51	mdz	perhaps we can organize a trip to the cinema one evening
10:52	iwj	I'll be getting into KX at 23something so I'll probably miss that :-).
10:52	bryce	that'd be cool
10:52	ogra	yeah
10:52	seb128	dholbach: new harry potter ;)
10:52	dholbach	hehe :-)
10:52	iwj	*shudder8
10:52	agoliveira	No way! :)
10:52	mdz	in the spirit of individual initiative, it's more likely to happen if someone takes the lead and organizes it
10:52	doko	seb128: ask amy to buy one in chinese ;-)
10:53	mdz	we're almost at time.  is there anything else to cover for the meeting before we wrap up?
10:53	ogra	doko++
10:53	bryce	mdz, nope
10:53	seb128	doko: I think I like english better than chinese ;)
10:53	ogra	we can all talk next week in person :)
10:53	mdz	ok
10:53	mdz	travel safely, everyone
10:53	fabbione	cya sunday
10:53	mdz	and good night
</pre>
