{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This is the '''2nd''' meeting of the '''Iowa Team''', starting at 20:00 CST and finishing at 20:40 CST

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT when the meeting starts to indicate who is online and paying attention.

'''Active Attendees:'''
* !AtomicSpark
* Iowan
* Bynw
* kristau
* paultag
* linuxuser21
* F0o
* jimerickson

== Agenda ==
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

* Reminder of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam#Training%20Sessions|Ubuntu Global Jam Training Session]]</nowiki>. ``@``!AtomicSpark``@
* Des Moines ReLoCo. ``@``!AtomicSpark``@
* Get more members' locations listed on the loco's map. @KWierso@
* Get a list of questions to make sure to get answered at the locoteam's GlobalJam session on Friday. @KWierso@

== Minutes ==
* !AtomicSpark discussed the upcoming Global Jam training session tomorrow night and the Jam in general. 
* Des Moines ReLoCo. Because !AtomicSpark and Iowan are in Iowa City area, Iowa !LoCo needs someone to be a flag bearer for Des Moines area.
* It would be helpful if members could flag their location on the launchpad map. We don't need your street address, but it'd be helpful to know which town our members are in/near.
* Last call for attendees.

== Any Other Business ==

* 

== Guide Lines ==
The meeting moderator will ensure key points are discussed. Key points from the Agenda will be noted by <code>[TOPIC] Agenda item</code>. When ideas are put forward to be considered they should be noted by <code>[IDEA] Idea</code>. The meeting moderator will indicate the final state of each topic by <code>[ACTION] Action being taken</code>. This should signify that the topic is discussed and the meeting is moving forward. The meeting moderator will use special tags to start and end the meeting and its recording. Please see <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot| MootBot]]</nowiki> for details on specific tags.

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
20:01 < Iowan> Bathroom break
20:01 < Iowan> PRESENT
20:01 < Iowan> Guess it's officially time to begin!
20:02 < AtomicSpark> Indeed.
20:02 < AtomicSpark> I was going to highlight the entire channel, but I don't remember the command.
20:02 < Iowan> Others interested in logging in?
20:02 < Bynw> can anyone say they are present or are there rules for that :o)
20:03 < AtomicSpark> Bynw: The point of you saying PRESENT is to let us know you are here and to help logging later.
20:03 < Iowan> Only those who are here - which kinda makes me wonder if I qualify...
20:03  * kristau is present ;)
20:04 < Iowan> Four and counting...
20:04 < Bynw> PRESENT :o)
20:04  * AtomicSpark nudges paultag
20:04 < paultag> AtomicSpark, howdy
20:04 < paultag> AtomicSpark, what's up
20:04 < AtomicSpark> paultag: Meeting!
20:04 < paultag> w00t :)
20:04 < paultag> I'll be here for another 10
20:04 < paultag> Let's do this thang
20:05 < AtomicSpark> Iowan: Should we wait for others or start?
20:05 < Iowan> Others? going once... twice
20:05 < Iowan> First agenda iter?
20:05 < Iowan> typing notso good - item
20:06 -!- linuxuser21 [~601f08d0@gateway/web/freenode/x-dzmelbhegmiidaav] has joined #ubuntu-us-ia
20:06 < AtomicSpark> Well I'd like welcome you all to the 2nd meeting of the Iowa LoCo.
20:07 < AtomicSpark> Since KWierso isn't here, we'll have to skip his agenda until he shows up.
20:08 < Iowan> AtomicSpark: First two are yours
20:08 < AtomicSpark> Yes, but I don't want to have all of the attention!
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(target)]]</nowiki><pre>
20:09 < AtomicSpark> But anyways, my first agenda is to remind everyone of the Ubuntu Global Jam training session tomorrow at 2100 UTC
20:09 < AtomicSpark> Which is...
20:09  * AtomicSpark does math
20:09 < Iowan> 3:00
20:09 < AtomicSpark> Yes, 3:00 PM
20:10 < AtomicSpark> The main topic is "how to run a jam". I assume we'll be the perfect audience for that since it will be our first time running one.
20:10 < AtomicSpark> There will be more specific sessions later on it seems.
20:10 < linuxuser21> Hello, please go easy, this is my first time doing something like this
20:11 < Iowan> AtomicSpark:  Did you happen to attend the last one - what to expect?
20:11 < AtomicSpark> Iowan: I only caught the tail end of it. It was pretty dead. Nobody showed up. Guess I was too late. ;3
20:11 < AtomicSpark> linuxuser21: To an irc meeting? You're free to randomly join.
20:12 < AtomicSpark> linuxuser21: it's just a logged guided chat session. i suppose you can put it that way.
20:12 < linuxuser21> Yeah, this is my first time.
20:12 < Iowan> linuxuser21: We're gonna claim you PRESENT!
20:12 < AtomicSpark> Wonderful!
20:13 < linuxuser21> I got an invite to the Iowa Loco and  wanted to get involved.
20:13 < Iowan> linuxuser21: Hope that was my invint :)
20:13 < AtomicSpark> But anyways, it would be good to have everyone attend that meeting tomorrow. It takes place in #ubuntu-locoteams.
20:13 -!- Amaranth [~travis@ubuntu/member/Amaranth] has quit [Ping timeout: 268 seconds]
20:14 < paultag> AtomicSpark, Iowan, I am on my way out. Can you PM me the log URL later on? Thanks you two. You guys rock. Carry on!
20:14 < linuxuser21> @Iowan yup, that was your invite.
20:14 < AtomicSpark> paultag: It'll be on the wiki.
20:14 < AtomicSpark> paultag: But yes, will do.
20:14 -!- Amaranth [~travis@ubuntu/member/Amaranth] has joined #ubuntu-us-ia
20:14 < Iowan> paultag:  Should be an email link, too
20:14 < AtomicSpark> Iowan and his 1 min emails ):
20:15 < Iowan> One-liners...
20:15 < Iowan> Any burning questions we should get answered tomorrow night - or wait for KWierso?
20:16 < AtomicSpark> This is how I imagine it will happen. We'll meet locally (if possible) and set up some computers. We'll join irc channels and perhaps install Lucid.
20:16 < AtomicSpark> Then we'll get ideas on what needs testing, etc.
20:16 < AtomicSpark> (this is for the jam, not tomorrows meeting)
20:17 < kristau> What types of "bugs" need fixing? Any non-coder type stuff? Documentation?
20:17 < Iowan> Any idea if CD's will be available for us "unofficial" LoCo's?
20:17 < AtomicSpark> Iowan: Probably not. We'll just burn a few or run virtual machines.
20:18 < Bynw> unfortunately that jam takes place during the day ... will be at work :(
20:18 < AtomicSpark> Bynw: The meeting!
20:18 < AtomicSpark> Bynw: The jam is in March
20:18 < Bynw> Oh ok
20:18 < Bynw> whatever takes place at 3 tomorrow :o)
20:18 < AtomicSpark> Oh I suppose I should rediscuss that since we have different people here.
20:19 < linuxuser21> This is probably going to sound really noobish, but, what is this Jam thing?
20:19 < AtomicSpark> The Ubuntu Global Jam is this thing were everyone gets online and helps make Ubuntu better!
20:19 < AtomicSpark> It welcomes all types of users. You can bug test, help write documentation, fix bugs, etc.
20:19 < AtomicSpark> Read more here (later) https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
20:20 < Iowan> Is the Jam a pre-quel to the release party?
20:20 < linuxuser21> thanks for the link.  I'll be sure to read that.
20:20 < AtomicSpark> But what we want to do is get the CR/IC people togeather in person. DSM is on their own but we're encouraging them to do the same.
20:21 < AtomicSpark> Iowan: Lucid comes out in the middle of April, so yes.
20:21 < kristau> Are there locations set up yet for DSM and CR/IC?
20:21 < Iowan> Cherokee is at liberty...
20:22 < linuxuser21> I'm up for that one.  lol
20:22 < AtomicSpark> kristau: No. I am working on the Kirkwood Community College in IC.
20:22  * kristau is in the DSM area, BTW.
20:22 < AtomicSpark> kristau: Wonderful!
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(target)]]</nowiki><pre>
20:23 < AtomicSpark> This brings me to my next agenda...
20:23 < Iowan> Volunteer?
20:23 < AtomicSpark> Des Moines people! We need you! You need to get together and have your own little party.
20:23  * Bynw is a des moines people
20:23 < AtomicSpark> This will be a test to help develop your own little ReLoCo (regional/really local community team)
20:24 < AtomicSpark> We (Iowan and myself) need someone in DSM to step up and be a temporary contact person for this event.
20:24 < kristau> Sadly, my March 26-28th is already booked, but I may be able to help in the lead-up.
20:24 < Bynw> ditto
20:24 < AtomicSpark> kristau: Shame. Well there is always the release party!
20:24 < Iowan> Ground-work will be appreciated - site, etc.
20:24 < Bynw> that's a bad weekend ... already have many plans
20:26 < Iowan> If nothing else, we are building a list of DM'ers
20:26 < AtomicSpark> This is true.
20:27 < AtomicSpark> In any case, we will eventually need a Des Moines "subteam".
20:27 < AtomicSpark> For the other half of Iowa.
20:28 < AtomicSpark> That's pretty much all I have for my agenda. Iowan do you have anything to add?
20:29 < Iowan> I suppose "we" could touch on the 3rd agenda item - members  locations on map
20:30 < Iowan> It'd be "handy" to help up plan events if we know who is where
20:30 < kristau> I need to sign up for the group. Will do that shortly, but I'm lazy and gnupg takes a bit of effort ;P
20:30 -!- Amaranth [~travis@ubuntu/member/Amaranth] has quit [Ping timeout: 268 seconds]
20:31 < AtomicSpark> Yes. If you're paranoid, you don't have to make it exact. Just zoom out and blindly click on your city.
20:31 < AtomicSpark> You can find the page here https://launchpad.net/~<username>/+editlocation
20:31 < AtomicSpark> Make sure you uncheck the hide option.
20:31 < Iowan> AtomicSpark: Do you have the membership page handy?
20:32 < AtomicSpark> Also a reminder to have your full name as your display name on LP. Many people do this, and it'll help us figure out who is who.
20:32 < AtomicSpark> Here is our member page if you haven't signed up https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-ia
20:32 < AtomicSpark> Just click join team (or something like that) on the right side of the page
20:35 < Iowan> That's pretty much the agenda for this evening.
20:35 < Iowan> Speaking of which - the agenda is open for members to include items
20:36 < AtomicSpark> And discuss them!
20:36 < AtomicSpark> Tis the reason for the meetings.
20:36 -!- F0o [~chatzilla@173-27-165-168.client.mchsi.com] has joined #ubuntu-us-ia
20:36 < Iowan> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IowaTeam/Meetings Check here - there should be a fresh entry each week
20:37 -!- Amaranth [~travis@ubuntu/member/Amaranth] has joined #ubuntu-us-ia
20:37 < AtomicSpark> Yes yes. I suppose we can end the meeting and just make fun of F0o for being late again.
20:37 < Iowan> Last call for members wishing to be counted PRESENT
20:38 < F0o> present
20:38 < linuxuser21> present
20:38 < jimerickson> present
20:38 < Iowan> Thanks F0o - you take a hint very well!
20:38 < Iowan> Othre, too!
20:38 < F0o> Iowan:  im slow i know
20:38 < Iowan> Slow is better than absent!
20:39 < Iowan> Other "business" requiring discussion?
20:40 < Iowan> Second meeting is "officially" closed - social hour begins!
</pre>
