{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meetin ====
* No ACTION points
==== Development Release ====
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
* http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
** cpaelzer mentioned two libvirt bugs that were showing up as NEW.
* Active work that may need wider communication
** rbasak to upload git-based workflow linter to usd-import-team git tree.
==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
* caribou mentioned 4 kdump-tools bugs on s390x & ppc64el (LP: #1571590 LP: #1568952 LP: #1599561 LP: #1570775)
==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
* powerjs provided an updated on the QA infrastructure updates.
==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
* Nothing to report
==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
* None
==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
* None
==== Open Discussion ====
* Nothing
==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
* coreycb on Jul 19, 16:00.
==== Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak) ====
* Deferred a week.

===== Meeting Actions =====

jgrimm to review libvirt bugs (LP: #1561019) for reassignment

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, July 19th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul 12 16:02:20 2016 UTC.  The chair is nacc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:02] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:02] <nacc> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <rbasak> o/
[16:03] <jgrimm> o/
[16:03] <nacc> afaict, there were no previous action points?
[16:03] <nacc> #topic Yakkety Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Yakkety Development
[16:03] <nacc> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
[16:03] <nacc> anything on yakkety to discuss?
[16:03] <caribou> nacc: yes;
[16:04] <caribou> nacc: do you remember the clamav git tree issue ?
[16:04] <nacc> caribou: off the top of my head, no :)
[16:04] <nacc> caribou: was that the one that went backwards in the publishing history?
[16:04] <caribou> nacc: neverming
[16:05] <caribou> nacc: different issue, I'm the one with wired crossed :)
[16:05] <nacc> caribou: :)
[16:06] <rharper>  o/
[16:06] <caribou> The clamav merge MP is just waiting for final review
[16:06] <nacc> caribou: ah great; i'll try and take a look later today (although rbasak still has to do the actual sponsorship :)
[16:06] <nacc> anyone else with any yakkety discussion?
[16:07] <nacc> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:07] <nacc> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:07] <nacc> (note i fixed the wiki irccommands page, which still had -w as the link)
[16:07] <rbasak> Sorry, I've been focused entirely on MySQL. I'm coming out of that hole now. I'm coming out of that hole now though. I hope to catch up on reviews and sponsoring this week.
[16:07] <nacc> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:08] <caribou> rbasak:  I can upload clamav if it can help
[16:08] <nacc> rbasak: as we had discussed earlier, i'll try and at least help with the reviews; have you had a cahnce to push your import-linter?
[16:08] <rbasak> nacc: no, I should do that. Sorry.
[16:08] <nacc> rbasak: np; just want to make sure we're on the same set of tools
[16:08] <cpaelzer> looking at the bugs, there are two new libvirt bugs - who is looking at them atm - smb?
[16:09] <rbasak> nacc: pushed
[16:10] <nacc> rbasak: thanks!
[16:11] <jgrimm> cpaelzer, are you looking at y or x report? wrt to your libvirt question
[16:11] <cpaelzer> x
[16:11] <cpaelzer> I havent read the details, just checked the new/unassigned ones and seeing two libvirt
[16:12] <cpaelzer> bug 1571209
[16:12] <nacc> i think that's LP: #1561019 and LP: #1571209
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1571209 in libvirt (Ubuntu Xenial) "Sockfile check retries too short for a busy system boot" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1571209
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1561019 in libvirt (Ubuntu) "copied cpu flags don't match host cpu" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1561019
[16:12] <nacc> :)
[16:12] <cpaelzer> yes
[16:12] <jgrimm> second one has definitely been around awhile
[16:12] <nacc> I believe hallyn had looked at the cpu flags one
[16:12] <nacc> jgrimm: i think that's the one i was mentioning to you before as to whether someone should pick it back up
[16:12] <jgrimm> ah, ok will look at it offline
[16:13] <jgrimm> give me an action
[16:13] <jgrimm> to check whether it needs some assigned t
[16:13] <nacc> #action jgrimm to review libvirt bugs (LP: #1561019) for reassignment
[16:13] <meetingology> ACTION: jgrimm to review libvirt bugs (LP: #1561019) for reassignment
[16:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1561019 in libvirt (Ubuntu) "copied cpu flags don't match host cpu" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1561019
[16:13] <jgrimm> tx
[16:13] <nacc> if nothing else, moving on
[16:14] <nacc> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:14] <caribou> been quite busy with four kdump-tools bugs on s390x & ppc64el
[16:14] <caribou> hoping to SRU them shortly
[16:14] <nacc> caribou: all related to that reworking? or new bugs?
[16:14] <caribou> nacc: bug fixed in yakkety mostly & one new bug
[16:15] <nacc> caribou: ah ok
[16:15] <caribou> so SRU for all of them
[16:15] <nacc> caribou: do you have a good testing environment across all the arches for kdump/kexec (and all the myriad of combinations for backing storage)?
[16:15] <caribou> I can list them here if needed
[16:15] <caribou> nacc: short answer : no :)
[16:16] <nacc> caribou: heh :)
[16:16] <nacc> was just wondering
[16:16] <caribou> I've been working on DEP8 tests but they're to unstable to be pushed to the archive
[16:16] <caribou> they all require forcing a kernel crash and qemu tends not to be able to recover correctly, hence blocking the test
[16:17] <nacc> yep, makes sense
[16:17] <jgrimm> caribou, very nice
[16:17] <caribou> oh, and one new upstream sosreport release
[16:17] <caribou> that's all I have
[16:18] <caribou> still want the bug numbers ?
[16:18] <nacc> i guess it doesn't hurt to record them
[16:18] <caribou> LP: #1571590 LP: #1568952 LP: #1599561 LP: #1570775
[16:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1571590 in makedumpfile (Ubuntu Xenial) "pVM:pinelp2:ubuntu 16.04: Network is unreachable when using ssh in kdump" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1571590
[16:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1568952 in makedumpfile (Ubuntu Xenial) "ISST-LTE:pVM:thymelp2:ubuntu 16.04: change "maxcpus=1" to "nr_cpus=1" in kdump-tools" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1568952
[16:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1599561 in makedumpfile (Ubuntu Xenial) "Ubuntu 16.04.01 kdump: IP prefix is missing in the directory name after first dump during kdump over ssh." [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1599561
[16:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1570775 in makedumpfile (Ubuntu Xenial) "makekdump should re-exec with cio_ignore on s390x" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1570775
[16:19] <nacc> caribou: thanks!
[16:19] <nacc> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:19] <arges> nothing to report. everything is awesome.
[16:19] <nacc> yay!
[16:19] <nacc> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
[16:20] <nacc> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:20] <nacc> nothing planned afaik
[16:20] <nacc> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:21] <powersj> quick qa update: ppc64 vm is working now after resolving proxy issues with IS. Curtin ppc64 can now be run on it. I manually modified the jenkins tests, but need to go back and update it through Jenkins Job Builder today.
[16:21] <powersj> Quickly looking at curtin-vmtest failure (403) that has gone on since March and then will start looking at cloud-init-ci work.
[16:21] <nacc> powersj: oh sorry!
[16:21] <nacc> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team
[16:21] <nacc> powersj: great to hear!
[16:22] <powersj> thx would also still like to meet with folks to ask questions and gather thoughts
[16:22] <nacc> powersj: i think you're always welcome to ask on IRC and on the ML (or here, tbh)
[16:22] <powersj> k
[16:22] <nacc> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:23] <nacc> flipping back to the open discussion, anyone have anything?
[16:23] <nacc> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:23] <nacc> coreycb is currently set to chair, jul 19 at 16:00 UTC
[16:24] <nacc> non-server team bug folks are done, we'll switch topics to that
[16:24] <nacc> #topic Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)
[16:24] <rbasak> I need to defer again, sorry. I will dedicate a day to catch up this week in time for next week's meeting.
[16:24] <coreycb> nacc, got it, I'll make a note of it :)
[16:24] <nacc> rbasak: np, i will try and help out too, now that we have a shared spreadhseet
[16:24] <rbasak> Thanks, appreciated.
[16:24] <nacc> coreycb: i'll also send you a reminder email :)
[16:24] <coreycb> nacc, thanks
[16:25] <teward> *late again*
[16:25] <nacc> alright, thanks everyone!
[16:25] <nacc> teward: oh did you want to bring up any nginx stuff?
[16:25] <teward> nacc: all detailed in my blog post, but for the future we're going to have to track mainline again
[16:25] <teward> just for the radar: it's for the openssl problems seen in Debian
=== davidcalle is now known as davidcalle|afk
[16:26] <teward> and it's a tricky merge - call for testing in a week on the ML if anyone wants to test
[16:26] <nacc> teward: ok, thanks for the update!
[16:26] <nacc> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:26] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Jul 12 16:26:22 2016 UTC.
[16:26] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-07-12-16.02.moin.txt
[16:26] <teward> (via PPAs first, before I even consider including in the repos)
[16:26] <teward> *goes back to figuring out why said merge is failing to build*
[16:26] <nacc> teward: ack (i'll adjust in the meeting logs)
[16:27] <teward> nacc: no problem, it's become an issue on the radar more given other ubuntu-devel-discuss / ubuntu-server ML threads
[16:27] <nacc> teward: yep, makes sense
[16:27] <teward> and Debian-level threads (experimental is rolling openssl 1.1.0 now, and they want to make sure things 'build' before it's made available
</pre>
