{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Alpha6 remaining actions (ttx)
** Targeted bugs (current and missing)
** Release process improvements
* Review progress made on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki>:
** UEC images, including review of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=uec-images|active bugs]]</nowiki> (smoser)
** EC2 AMIs, including review of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=ec2-images|active bugs]]</nowiki> (smoser)
** Packaging and integration of Eucalyptus 1.6, including review of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=eucalyptus|active bugs]]</nowiki> (soren)
** Virtual appliance
** Image store (niemeyer)
** Reference appliance (kirkland)
** Other specs from the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki>
* Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs: http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html (ttx)
* Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Agree on next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* smoser to tag existing UEC image bugs with "uec-images": Done
* soren to ensure that smoser can update the UEC publishing scripts: Done
* smoser to add MD5SUMs for UEC images: Done
* soren to add manifest files for UEC images: Code landed in VMBuilder, will be added to build system today

ACTION: soren to add manifest files to UEC images build system for alpha6

* smoser to open dialog with IS about automated publishing to EC2 and agree on a plan: Done, ticket 35660
* soren to automate updating of ec2-version-query: Blocked on automated publishing

On that subject, nijaba mentioned it would probably be good to have a human-readable equivalent page updated at the same time. This should be discussed on ML and/or as a future meeting egenda item.

* soren to publish ec2-version-query in a more appropriate place: soren needs to get back to slangasek on that.
* smoser to add ec2-images tag to the relevant bugs: Done
* nijaba to fold #ubuntu-ec2 and #ubuntu-cloud into #ubuntu-server: Done
* soren to triage all eucalyptus bugs, and use the 'eucalyptus' tag for bugs which should be escalated to the eucalyptus team: Was done, but now needs a refresh
* kirkland to build a proof of concept alfresco appliance: This was retargeted, see below.
* mathiaz to get niemeyer's proxy code packaged: Done, MIR ready.
* zul to ensure rabbitmq-server gets reviewed and promoted: Still waiting on MIR team, zul will ping them again today.
* mathiaz to upload openldap 2.4.18: Done
* kirkland to speak with marjo about how to get qemu-kvm tested prior to release (and more generally server applications like it): Done, will hold a bugday in 2 weeks
* mathiaz to get a server dev team set up in LP and work with TB to get it set up for archive reorg: This is believed not to be needed for now. However mathiaz will have a look at the package sets again.
* ttx to update server team Roadmap to reflect current projects: Done
* Daviey to call for testing of Asterisk 1.6: Done

On that subject, Daviey mentioned the opportunity to update to RC1 (we are using 1.6beta4 now and are expected to move to 1.6 release in the end). ttx advised to release early and often, especially since RC1 is a bugfix-only update from beta4.

ACTION: Daviey to update Asterisk 1.6 to RC1

For reference, here is the list of ACTIONs from last meeting still in progress:

ACTION: soren to automate updating of ec2-version-query

ACTION: soren to publish ec2-version-query in a more appropriate place

ACTION: zul to ensure rabbitmq-server gets reviewed and promoted

===== Alpha6 remaining actions =====

The <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+bugs?field.milestone=12714|alpha6-milestoned buglist]]</nowiki> is empty of server-related items, so the question was up if any alpha6 targets were missing from the list. Bug 413789 was mentioned, but retargeted to 9.10-beta, pending help from mvo on resolution.

Some release process improvements were also targeted for alpha6, here is the status on them:

* Add signed MD5SUMS (slangasek): slangasek has now access to nectarine and proceeded on adding that.
* Add manifest file for each image (soren): 87% done, see ACTION above
* Automate publishing of AMIs to EC2 (smoser): Deferred to beta release
* Automate updating ec2-version-query (soren): Blocked on automatic publication, so deferred
* Publish ec2-version-query in a more appropriate place (soren): needs more discussion with slangasek
* Ensure inclusion of relevant news in release notes (erichammond): Blocked on manifest generation

===== Roadmap review: UEC/EC2 images bugs =====

* UEC image bugs: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=uec-images
* EC2 image bugs: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=ec2-images

smoser compiled a detailed status at http://paste.ubuntu.com/271503/. ttx asked about bug 420581 which is targeted for alpha6: it needs soren to pull the patch, review it, sponsor it, and then update his vmbuilder on nectarine, which should be completed for today.

ACTION: soren to sponsor the patch for bug 420581 and update his vmbuilder on nectarine

smoser reported last week release of ami-a40fefcd and ami-3fb25256 to ubuntu-ec2, ubuntu-cloud last week. This is the first image we've published with karmic kernel by default.  We've got fairly good feedback, the only real issue raised is on bug 428692. smoser is also working with jono, jorge and ara to get a community test plan together. ttx asked about bug 418130, which should be targeted for alpha6 since we are to release it with a Karmic kernel, and smoser retargeted it. erichammond asked whether kernel modules and a "loop" fix were going into Alpha6. smoser answered that those are 9.10-beta targets, though the kernel modules fix might make it into alpha6.

===== Roadmap review: Packaging and integration of Eucalyptus 1.6 =====

* Eucalyptus integration bugs list at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=eucalyptus

As already mentioned, the list needs a refresh. No other comments from the crowd.

===== Roadmap review: Virtual appliance =====

niemeyer was not present to the meeting, but the image-store-proxy is currently blocked on the image-store-proxy MIR. During the ACTION review, kirkland mentioned a change in reference appliance. Alfresco was abandoned due to its dependency on sun-jdk, partner-only packaging and lack of community testing. The current target is Moodle, which is in main, all open source and has a nice first-time setup via a web front end. A proof of concept image was produced at http://rookery.canonical.com/~kirkland/ubuntu-9.04-moodle.qcow2.bz2 (260Mb). One remaining issue is the need to dpkg-reconfigure on first login, forcing the user to make a few selections. Most of them can have sane defaults, but FQDN probably can't. Various possible workarounds were suggested, but none of them stood out as appropriate. This should be further discussed off-meeting.

ACTION: kirkland to open discussion on how to best solve the remaining configuration options on Moodle appliance

The appliance as generated now cannot be run in UEC (qcow2 format), nor would it be able to show up in the Eucalyptus Image Store.

ACTION: kirkland to get help from soren and smoser on proper UEC-compatible image generation

ACTION: kirkland to discuss with niemeyer and nurmi about ImageStore integration testing

===== Roadmap review: Other specs =====

On the Cluster stack front, ivoks reported everything for pacemaker as done and in karmic, ready for shipping. On the other hand, RHCS needs one more update (bug 429834). Looking at the extent of the update, this certainly requires a FeatureFreeze exception.

ACTION: ivoks to file FFe for the redhat-cluster update

With upload of OpenLDAP 2.4.18, the directory-enabled-user-login spec is feature-complete. It now needs testing.

===== Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs =====

The buglist at http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html doesn't show any bug ''needing'' to be reassigned. ttx wanted some feedback on proposed solution for bug 425928, and got a general agreement on that.

===== Weekly SRU review =====

The proposed bugs lists were reviewed and appropriate nominations were accepted. The <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/buglists/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html|list of accepted bugs with an assignee]]</nowiki> was also reviewed and updated.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 22nd at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <ttx> #startmeeting
[16:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:00. The chair is ttx.
[16:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:00] <ttx> Welcome to the server team meeting...
[16:00] <ttx> Agenda is up at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:01] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <ttx> ACTION: smoser to tag existing UEC image bugs with "uec-images"
[16:01] <smoser> done
[16:02] <ttx> ACTION: mdz to follow up on ubuntu-bug/apport for uec images
[16:02] <ttx> mdz is not here today, let's pass, unless someone knows the status here
[16:02] <ttx> ACTION: soren to ensure that smoser can update the UEC publishing scripts
[16:02] <zul> i thought ubuntu-bug was already on the uec images?
=== lamont` is now known as lamont
[16:03] <smoser> smose rcan update publishing scripts
[16:03] <ttx> zul: it doesn't trigger the tag on bugfiling
[16:03] <zul> ah ok
[16:03] <smoser> ubuntu-bug/apport is present in images
[16:03] <ttx> ACTION: smoser to add MD5SUMs for UEC images
[16:03] <smoser> and i sent mail to mdz (copying soren) about how to determine if you're in ec2
[16:04] <soren> smoser: Which one is this?
[16:04] <smoser> that is done. http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-on-ec2/vmbuilder/automated-ec2-builds/revision/7
[16:04] <ttx> smoser: that's the code used for releases ?
[16:04] <soren> Oui.
[16:04] <soren> Well, for builds of releases.
[16:05] <smoser> soren: Subject: Re: Notes from catch-up, 2009-09-11
[16:05] <ttx> Bien.
[16:05] <ttx> ACTION: soren to add manifest files for UEC images
[16:05] <soren> Code landed in VMBuilder. Will add to build system today.
[16:05] <ttx> ACTION: smoser to open dialog with IS about automated publishing to EC2 and agree on a plan
[16:06] <smoser> done. ticket 35660
[16:06] <ttx> smoser: do we have an agreement on the plan ?
[16:06] <smoser> hopefully we see resolution sometime next week on that, and the ability for us to publish to amazon directly from data center
[16:07] <zul> yay!
[16:07] <ttx> ok.
[16:07] <ttx> ACTION: soren to automate updating of ec2-version-query
[16:07] <zul> bye bye chichken coop
[16:07] <soren> ttx: Blocked on other stuff.
[16:07] <soren> ttx: Namely the automated publishing.
[16:08] <ttx> ok, will report to next week.
[16:08] <ttx> ACTION: soren to publish ec2-version-query in a more appropriate place
[16:08] <nijaba> on this subject, do we have a plan for a human readable page updated at the same time?
[16:08] <soren> nijaba: No plan at the moment that I know of.
[16:09] <soren> ttx: Hm... I'm not completely sure about the status of that. Let me check.
[16:09] <nijaba> soren: then we need to have one
[16:09] <soren> nijaba: Yes.
[16:09] <ttx> nijaba: noted.
[16:09] <nijaba> ttx: can we add this as an AOB subject?
[16:09] <ttx> nijaba: time permitting, yes :)
[16:09] <nijaba> thanks
[16:10] <ttx> smoser: While soren checks, could you comment on ec2 kernel status for alpha 6 ?
[16:11] <smoser> we're planning on using the kernels from bug 418130 for alpha6
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 418130 in Ubuntu Karmic "Karmic EC2 images don't use a karmic kernel" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/418130
[16:11] <ttx> so a karmic kernel. \o/
[16:11] <smoser> i need to publish them to eu-west-1, and soren needs to make them "current" in version-query
[16:12] <ttx> ACTION: smoser to add ec2-images tag to the relevant bugs
[16:13] <soren> Hmm... If my e-mail tagging is correct, this is blocking on me getting back to slangasek on the subject.
[16:13] <soren> I'll do that today.
[16:13] <smoser> done. and ideally ec2-images bugs and uec2-images bugs are opened with https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug?field.tags=ec2-images or https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug?field.tags=uec-images urls respectively (which get the tag added)
[16:13] <ttx> ok.
[16:13] <ttx> Anyone knows if bug documentation was updated for uec-images, ec2-images tags ?
[16:13] <smoser> s/uec2/uec
[16:14] <smoser> i have not updated any documentation for this.
[16:14] <ttx> smoser: it was a mdz action, just checking on status
[16:14] <ttx> ACTION: nijaba to fold #ubuntu-ec2 and #ubuntu-cloud into #ubuntu-server
[16:14] <nijaba> Done. Reference to ubuntu-[cloud|ec2] removed from web pages and topic changed in those chans.  Let me know if I missed something.
[16:14] <ttx> ACTION: soren to triage all eucalyptus bugs, and use the 'eucalyptus' tag for bugs which should be escalated to the eucalyptus team
[16:15] <smoser> ttx, i dont know.
[16:15] <smoser> there are threads about getting ubuntu-bug to automatically tag
[16:15] <ttx> ok
[16:15] <soren> ttx: I did this last week, but I think it's ripe for another go. I got interrupted so many times, it's not even funny, so I've likely missed something, and I'm sure new stuff has been reported since then.
[16:16] <ttx> soren: we'll review the list later in the meeting anyway ;)
[16:16] <ttx> ACTION: kirkland to build a proof of concept alfresco appliance
[16:16] <kirkland> ttx: howdy
[16:16] <kirkland> ttx: this TODO has been retargeted
[16:16] <ttx> right.
[16:16] <kirkland> ttx: alfresco is not a practical target for our reference appliance
[16:17] <kirkland> ttx: couple of reasons, a) depends on sunjdk which has been removed from karmic
[16:17] <kirkland> ttx: b) very little community testing on it
[16:17] <kirkland> ttx: c) only in the canonical partner archive right now
[16:17] <kirkland> ttx: we have adjusted the target to Moodle
[16:17] <kirkland> ttx: which is in Main, all open source, has a nice first-time setup via a web front end
[16:18] <ttx> kirkland: did you build a proof of concept Moodle appliance ?
[16:18] <nijaba> kirkland: sun jdk has not YET been removed
[16:18] <nijaba> kirkland: there is an active discussion on the subject
[16:18] <kirkland> ttx: yes, let me grab the url
[16:19] <kirkland> ttx: http://rookery.canonical.com/~kirkland/ubuntu-9.04-moodle.qcow2.bz2
[16:19] <kirkland> (~260MB)
[16:19] <kirkland> ttx: so there's a couple of to-do's left on this
[16:19] <kirkland> ttx: right now, on first login, it dpkg-reconfigures moodle, forcing the user to make a few selections
[16:19] <kirkland> ttx: i'm going to just default those to sane values
[16:19] <kirkland> ttx: the hardest one, though, is FQDN
[16:20] <kirkland> ttx: for that, i've installed avahi-daemon, and set the hostname to moodle.local
[16:20] <ivoks> you should ask that one
[16:20] <ivoks> kirkland: i wouldn't suggest that
[16:20] <kirkland> ivoks: understood, this is a difficult one
[16:20] <kirkland> i could set it to the IP address
[16:20] <ivoks> many windows shops use .local
[16:20] <ivoks> and that appliance wouldn't work then
[16:21] <kirkland> in any case, this *must* be set before the user starts going through the web interface setup
[16:21] <ttx> kirkland: is the appliance in its current form directly usable in UEC ?
[16:21] <Daviey> try DHCP and notify of setting, and ask accept/change?
[16:21] <kirkland> ttx: i'm not sure, i don't have a UEC running yet :-/
[16:21] <soren> It's not.
[16:22] <soren> UEC does not run qcow2 images.
[16:22] <soren> It runs flat filesystem images.
[16:22] <kirkland> soren: oh?  should i format raw?
[16:22] <ttx> img.tar.gz is what we usually do
[16:22] <kirkland> ttx: i require some guidance on image creation
[16:22] <soren> Yes. VMBuilder should be taking care of that for you?
[16:22] <ttx> ok.
[16:22] <kirkland> soren: hmm, with what option?
[16:23] <soren> kirkland: Xen?
[16:23] <zul> why not just download the build scripts and use that?
[16:23] <ttx> kirkland: you should also sync with niemeyer on possibilities of making it show up at one point as an available appliance in Eucalyptus image store
[16:23] <kirkland> zul: what build scripts?
[16:23] <nurmi_> I can also help with Moodle image test, we have several installations of UEC running
[16:23] <kirkland> ttx: yes
[16:24] <kirkland> nurmi_: great
[16:24] <kirkland> ttx: okay, i'll redo this appliance today
[16:24] <ttx> [ACTION] kirkland to sync with soren and niemeyer on getting the Moodle appliance in a UEC and UEC-image-store-compatible format
[16:24] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to sync with soren and niemeyer on getting the Moodle appliance in a UEC and UEC-image-store-compatible format
[16:25] <kirkland> ttx: what about the FQDN question?
[16:25] <zul> kirkland: check with smoser
[16:25] <kirkland> ttx: how do we want to handle that
[16:25] <kirkland> ttx: we can either force the user to ssh to the device, set that, and do the dpkg-reconfigure questions
[16:26] <kirkland> ttx: or what?
[16:26] <ttx> soren: could that be covered with userdata ?
[16:26] <soren> We can do everything with userdata.
[16:27] <Daviey> kirkland: Is this targetted at Eucalyptus or generic?
[16:27] <soren> ...I don't think it's the right thing to use here, though..
[16:27] <soren> I think it'd be a shame to rely on the user setting specific userdata to use this.
[16:27] <smoser> "we can do everything with user data" .
[16:27] <ttx> ok, let's finish the ACTION list first and come back to that after, time permitting
[16:27] <ttx> ACTION: mathiaz to get niemeyer's proxy code packaged
[16:27] <smoser> i agree with soren, on both that we dont want to require user to feed info that way, and that we can in deed do everything that way
[16:28] <mathiaz> ttx: done - MIR is ready
[16:28] <mathiaz> ttx: it's in the MIR team camp now
[16:28] <smoser> we may be able to find an app suitable for a vm that has a web gui admin panel on first install.
[16:28] <smoser> lots of php apps have such things.
[16:28] <smoser> ie, when you install gallery, you then go to some url and start configuring it.
[16:29] <ttx> ACTION: zul to ensure rabbitmq-server gets reviewed and promoted
[16:29] <zul> yeah im blocked on the MIR team again ill bug kees about it again today
[16:29] <ttx> yes.
[16:30] <ttx> ACTION: mathiaz to upload openldap 2.4.18
[16:30] <mathiaz> ttx: done
[16:30] <soren> Whee!
[16:30] <ttx> ACTION: kirkland to speak with marjo about how to get qemu-kvm tested prior to release (and more generally server applications like it)
[16:31] <kirkland> ttx: yes, did that
[16:31] <kirkland> ttx: we're going to have a bug day, in 2 weeks
[16:31] <ttx> great !
[16:31] <kirkland> ttx: i'm now working on a wiki page describing how to test, and what
[16:31] <kirkland> ttx: if there's anyone in the community willing/able to help with that plan, i'm open ;-)
[16:31] <ttx> ok.
[16:31] <ttx> ACTION: mathiaz to get a server dev team set up in LP and work with cjwatson to get it set up for archive reorg
[16:32] <kirkland> ttx: as this is toward the bottom of my list
[16:32] <cjwatson> s/cjwatson/TB/ please
[16:32] <cjwatson> (which includes me, but ...)
[16:32] <mathiaz> ttx: turns out we don't have use for an ubuntu-server-dev team right now
[16:33] <mathiaz> cjwatson: IIUC ubuntu-core-dev/ubuntu-motu will not get away?
[16:33] <mathiaz> ttx: I'll have to look at the package set again though.
[16:33] <ttx> mathiaz: ok.
[16:33] <ttx> ACTION: ttx to update server team Roadmap to reflect current projects
[16:33] <ttx> done, we'll see that in a minute
[16:34] <ttx> ACTION: Daviey to call for testing of Asterisk 1.6
[16:34] <cjwatson> mathiaz: eventually, they will
[16:34] <cjwatson> well, motu will
[16:34] <Daviey> ttx: http://blog.daviey.com/ubuntu/call-for-testing-asterisk-1-6.html and hit ubuntu-server ML lst
[16:34] <cjwatson> though this is not especially short-term
[16:34] <Daviey> list*
[16:34] <mathiaz> cjwatson: ok.
[16:35] <ttx> Daviey: ok, feel free to update the (new) Roadmap page to reflect the CFT-in-progress
[16:35] <Daviey> ttx: will do.
[16:35] <ttx> there is a tester section in there
[16:35] <ttx> ACTION: mathiaz to produce a list of accepted bugs for packages related to the ubuntu-server team.
[16:35] <Daviey> ttx: one other thing, not sure how to handle beta4 status
[16:35] <ttx> beta4 ?
[16:35] <mathiaz> ttx: done
[16:35] <Daviey> current 1.6 in karmic is stil beta4
[16:36] <Daviey> rc1 is out, but would it be better to wait for release?
[16:36] <Daviey> or stick with a beta for the whole cycle (sounds like a maintainaince un)
[16:36] <Daviey> fun*
[16:36] <ttx> release early, release often
[16:36] <mathiaz> Daviey: is rc1 a bug fix only?
[16:37] <Daviey> ttx: okay, i'll get rc1 done.  mathiaz yes, adds no feature afaik
[16:37] <ttx> ACTION: mathiaz to produce a list of accepted bugs for packages related to the ubuntu-server team.
[16:37] <mathiaz> Daviey: so it can still go in karmic - if packages are ready in time
[16:37] <mathiaz> ttx: done
[16:37] <zul> mathiaz: do you need help with that ACTION?
[16:38] <mathiaz> zul: I don't think so - it's done.
[16:38] <ttx> ok... let's move on to the next topic then
[16:38] <zul> k
[16:38] <ttx> [TOPIC] Alpha6 remaining actions
[16:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Alpha6 remaining actions
[16:38] <ttx> Just a quick roundtable about things that need to be covered before alpha6 release
[16:38] <ttx> We don't have bugs left targeted for that milestone...
[16:38] <ttx> Should we ?
[16:39] <Sam-I-Am> i'm curious about that sudo/su glibc bug
[16:39] <ivoks> rhcs sync maybe?
[16:39] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+bugs?field.milestone=12714
[16:39] <mathiaz> ttx: bug 413789
[16:39] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 413789 in mysql-dfsg-5.1 "mysql-server has been kept back with dist-upgrading" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/413789
[16:39] <mathiaz> ttx: apparently I forgot to target it correclty - there isn't any karmic task
[16:40] <ttx> mathiaz: you plan to fix it in time for alpha6 ?
[16:40] <mathiaz> ttx: well - not me.
[16:40] <Sam-I-Am> bug 423252
[16:40] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 423252 in glibc "NSS using LDAP on Karmic (alpha 4) breaks 'su' and 'sudo'" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/423252
[16:40] <mathiaz> ttx: I'm stuck - waiting for mvo to have a look at it.
[16:40] <ttx> ah, ok
[16:40] <mathiaz> ttx: I'll probably retarget that for beta then
[16:41] <ttx> mathiaz: see with mvo, but that may be preferable
[16:41] <ttx> [ACTION] mathiaz to target bug 413789 to a appropriate milestone
[16:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 413789 in mysql-dfsg-5.1 "mysql-server has been kept back with dist-upgrading" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/413789
[16:41] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to target bug 413789 to a appropriate milestone
[16:43] <ttx> About bug 423252, I'll bring it up at next release meeting. It's a foundations thing.
[16:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 423252 in glibc "NSS using LDAP on Karmic (alpha 4) breaks 'su' and 'sudo'" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/423252
[16:43] <Sam-I-Am> ttx: ok
[16:44] <ttx> we have some alpha6-related release process improvements as well
[16:44] <ttx> * Add signed MD5SUMS
[16:44] <ttx> smoser, soren: slangasek is apparently blocked on nectarine access for that
[16:45] <soren> He just got that earlier today.
[16:45] <soren> Allegedly.
[16:45]  * soren checks
[16:45] <slangasek> oh?
[16:45] <soren> Yes.
[16:45] <soren> Try it.
[16:45] <ttx> * Add manifest file for each image
[16:45] <soren> (bypassing the usual ssh proxy thing)
[16:45] <ttx> soren: that is covered, right
[16:46] <slangasek> ah, no proxy
[16:46]  * slangasek tweaks
[16:46] <soren> ttx: 87%, yes.
[16:46] <ttx> * Automate publishing of AMIs to EC2
[16:46] <soren> ttx: The hard part is done :)
[16:46] <ttx> smoser: that was deferred, methink
[16:46] <slangasek> (strange, why is /that/ one outside the proxy?)
[16:46] <smoser> deferred, yes.
[16:46] <ttx> * Automate updating ec2-version-query
[16:47] <ttx> soren: blocked on automatic publication
[16:47] <ttx> ?
[16:47] <soren> Well, yes.
[16:47] <soren> and decision on final location.
[16:48] <ttx> * Publish ec2-version-query in a more appropriate place
[16:48] <ttx> soren: this is blocked on you syncing with slangasek ?
[16:48] <soren> ttx: Yes. I'm writing the e-mail right now.
[16:48] <ttx> * Ensure inclusion of relevant news in release notes
[16:49] <ttx> erichammond: around ?
[16:49] <erichammond> yes
[16:49] <ttx> yay ;)
[16:49] <erichammond> I believe this is waiting on a task from soren related to manifests
[16:50] <ttx> soren: ^?
[16:50] <erichammond> probably the above mentioned one
[16:50] <soren> ttx: We've been through this.
[16:50] <soren> ttx: Twice :)
[16:50]  * ttx is buried under information
[16:50] <ttx> ok then
[16:50]  * soren tosses ttx a shovel
[16:51] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review progress made on the Roadmap
[16:51] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review progress made on the Roadmap
[16:51] <ttx> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:51] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:51] <ivoks> didn't know cluster is lower than mail :)
[16:52]  * mvo apologizes to mathiaz for not looking at the upgrade bug yet
[16:52] <ttx> ivoks: It's all Low :P
[16:52] <ttx> smoser: Let's talk about UEC images bugs
[16:52] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=uec-images
[16:52] <mathiaz> mvo: I've retargeted the bug for 9.10-beta.
[16:53] <ivoks> is it too late to work on mail stack?
[16:53] <smoser> i've put together http://paste.ubuntu.com/271503/
[16:53] <smoser> which covers all the opne uec and ec2 bugs. do we want to paste that here?
[16:54] <smoser> theres not much uec specific, other than bug 429106 which i opened but have no progress on
[16:54] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 429106 in vm-builder "kernel and initramfs should be available for uec" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/429106
[16:54] <ttx> smoser: will 420581 be fixed in time ?
[16:54] <mathiaz> ivoks: we're passed FF
[16:54] <ttx> it's apparently targeted for alpha6
[16:54] <ivoks> mathiaz: yep, sorry
[16:55] <mathiaz> ivoks: it can be deferred for the next release cycle though.
[16:55] <smoser> ttx, i just need soren to pull, review it, sponsor it, and then update his vmbuilder on nectarine
[16:55] <soren> smoser: Yes. I will also do this today.
[16:55] <smoser> he may object to it, but i think the patch is good.
[16:55] <ivoks> mathiaz: well, there's nothing else we can do; i'll just fix some bugs in current stack
[16:56] <smoser> and then i may have more of the same requests for soren tomorrow
[16:56] <mathiaz> ivoks: sounds like a good plan to me - fixing bugs!
[16:56] <ivoks> :)
[16:56] <ttx> ok, anyone else has remarks on the buglist or the status pastebin from smoser ?
[16:57] <ttx> EC2 AMIs bugs are at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=ec2-images for reference
[16:57] <smoser> other things of note
[16:57] <ttx> smoser: shouldn't 418130 get targeted for alpha6 ?
[16:57] <smoser> Last week, I released ami-a40fefcd and ami-3fb25256 to ubuntu-ec2, ubuntu-cloud last week, this is the first image we've published with karmic kernel by default.  We've got fairly good feedback, the only real issue raised is on bug 428692
[16:57] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 428692 in ubuntu "ec2 kernel needs CONFIG_BLK_DEV_LOOP=y and other config changes" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/428692
[16:57] <smoser> Other news is that jono, jorge, and ara have started helping us get a test plan together.  They're concentrating on establishing a way for the community to help us test ec2 images.
[16:58] <smoser> ttx, ok. i'll target it there.
[16:58] <zul> smoser: heh gee that is all the issues they had with the karmic kernel?
[16:59] <erichammond> smoser: You said that the next public AMI released would be for Alpha 6.  Are you registering private AMIs for testing purposes?
[16:59] <smoser> i've not seen any issues with it other than the loop driver not being present (easily worked around)
[17:00] <smoser> erichammond, the most recent one i've put up is the one i labelled alpha5.1. the only change so far since then is bug 427288
[17:00] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 427288 in eglibc "Karmic i386 EC2 kernel emulating unsupported memory accesses" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/427288
[17:00] <smoser> which i've not gotten into the images yet
[17:01] <erichammond> smoser: Are the kernel modules and a "loop" fix going into Alpha 6?
[17:01] <smoser> probably not a loop fix, but maybe a kernel modules
[17:02] <smoser> thats a weak maybe
[17:02] <ttx> Anything else on the UEC/EC2 images front, before we move to Eucalyptus ?
[17:02] <smoser> but it is fairly easily worked around with dpkg from the ppa
[17:02] <smoser> erichammond, but, for beta i hope both.
[17:02] <ttx> [TOPIC] Packaging and integration of Eucalyptus 1.6
[17:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Packaging and integration of Eucalyptus 1.6
[17:03] <ttx> Eucalyptus integration bugs at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=eucalyptus
[17:03] <ttx> soren already said it needs some refresh
[17:04] <ttx> comments, anyone ?
[17:06] <ttx> OK... since we are already overflowing I'll switch to...
[17:06] <ttx> [TOPIC] Virtual appliance
[17:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Virtual appliance
[17:06] <ttx> niemeyer is not around, but his part is blocked on the image-store-proxy MIR
[17:06] <ttx> kirkland already mentioned the change in reference appliance
[17:07] <kirkland> ttx: ack
[17:07] <ttx> The best way to push FQDN configuration shoudl probably be discussed off-meeting
[17:07] <kirkland> ttx: that's fine
[17:07] <kirkland> ttx: i'm going to talk to smoser later today and get some assistance making/testing the image in UEC
[17:07] <kirkland> ttx: and ping nurmi_ about it too
[17:07] <ttx> kirkland: ok.
[17:07] <kirkland> ttx: we can discuss FQDN in #ubuntu-server
[17:08] <ttx> [TOPIC] Other specs from the Roadmap
[17:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Other specs from the Roadmap
[17:08] <zul_> sorry X decided to tak a nose dive
[17:08] <kirkland> ttx: fwiw, moodle seemed to work well as an appliance, with web setup and all
[17:08] <ttx> Anyone has progress to report on other specs from the roadmap ?
=== zul_ is now known as zul
[17:08] <ivoks> yes
[17:08] <ivoks> cluster stack
[17:08] <ivoks> everything for pacemaker is done and in karmic, ready for shipping
[17:09] <ttx> ivoks: ok
[17:09] <ivoks> rhcs just needs one more sync and that would be finished too
[17:09] <ttx> it's a bugfix sync ?
[17:09] <ivoks> since it's in main, it needs main sponsors to look at it
[17:09] <ivoks> it's a new version
[17:10] <ivoks> but it also has some fixes
[17:10] <mathiaz> ivoks: new features?
[17:10] <ivoks> bug 429834
[17:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 429834 in redhat-cluster "Please sync redhat-cluster 3.0.2-2ubuntu1 (main) from PPA" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/429834
[17:10] <ivoks> bugfix version
[17:10] <mathiaz> ivoks: if it's a bugfix only, it doesn't need a FFexception
[17:10] <ivoks> well
[17:10] <ttx> I'm not sure if we do syncs from PPAs though
[17:10] <ivoks> current redhat-cluster in karmic is very old
[17:10] <ivoks> so, this one would be a major change
[17:11] <ivoks> but we couldn't sync it before, cause there weren't all needed pieces
[17:11] <ivoks> corosync and openais
[17:11] <ttx> ivoks: so you need a FFe first.
[17:12] <ivoks> most probably
[17:12] <ttx> [ACTION] ivoks to file FFe for the redhat-cluster update
[17:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ivoks to file FFe for the redhat-cluster update
[17:12] <ttx> mathiaz: should we consider directory-enabled-user-login completed, or is there more work to do ?
[17:12] <ivoks> doesn't the bug qualify as ffe?
[17:12] <mathiaz> ttx: testing is the next step
[17:13] <mathiaz> ttx: no more developement is required though
[17:13] <mathiaz> ivoks: if there are new features in there, then it requires a FFe
[17:13] <ttx> ivoks: it needs more precision on the scope of the change, and subscribe ubuntu-release rather than sponsors
[17:13] <ivoks> ok
[17:14] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - reading through the changelog it seems that a FFe is required
[17:14] <ttx> mathiaz: ok, I'll leave it open then
[17:14] <ttx> any other spec progress to mention ?
[17:14] <mathiaz> ivoks: what needs to be documented is which new features, and what are the risk of updating the stack in karmic now
[17:14] <ivoks> mathiaz: well, current rhcs doesn't work at all :)
[17:15] <mathiaz> ivoks: it's *totally* broken?
[17:15] <ivoks> mathiaz: yes
[17:15] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - so mention this in the FFe request as well
[17:15] <ivoks> of course
[17:15] <ttx> [TOPIC] Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[17:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[17:15] <ttx> Bug list @ http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[17:16] <DKcross> have meet now'
[17:16] <DKcross> ?
[17:16] <ttx> DKcross: which meeting ?
[17:16] <DKcross> any know when is the meet for membership?
[17:17] <ttx> no, but we definitely overflow :)
[17:17] <DKcross> ttx, i don't know
[17:17] <ttx> no bug assigned directly to canonical-server-team... so no assignement necessary there
[17:17] <ttx> anyone want to mention being blocked on one of "his" bugs ? Or wanting one of them to be reassigend ?
[17:18] <mathiaz> DKcross: which membership board is supposed to be running now?
[17:18] <ttx> Personally I wanted to discuss bug 425928
[17:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 425928 in eucalyptus "Eucalyptus CC package depends on 'vtund' process in multi-cluster mode" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/425928
[17:18] <zul> ttx: i just un-assigned myself  the iptables one
[17:19] <ttx> Is the proposed solution at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eucalyptus/+bug/425928/comments/1 satisfactory for everyone ?
[17:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 425928 in eucalyptus "Eucalyptus CC package depends on 'vtund' process in multi-cluster mode" [Medium,Triaged]
[17:19] <zul> ack
[17:19] <ttx> zul: ok
[17:19]  * soren looks
[17:20] <ttx> nurmi_ is no longer with us, unfortunately
[17:20]  * soren agress
[17:20] <DKcross> mathiaz, no, i dont know, I'm question when is
[17:20] <ttx> OK, I'll do that then
[17:20] <ttx> anything else on that list someone wants to bring up before we move on to the next item in that crowded agenda ?
[17:21] <mathiaz> DKcross: usually the wiki page for the membership board outlines when the next meeting takes place
[17:21] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review
[17:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review
[17:21] <ttx> mathiaz: I'll let you drive this one :)
[17:21] <DKcross> mathiaz,  i know but no have new date
[17:21] <mathiaz> http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/buglists/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[17:21] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/buglists/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[17:21] <DKcross> thanks i will wait
[17:21] <mathiaz> ^^ any bugs worth considering for a SRU on the list above^^?
[17:21] <zul> i have a list as well: http://pastebin.com/m78eb72be
[17:22] <zul> mathiaz: ^^^
[17:22] <nealmcb> the next meeting in here is desktop team in 10 minutes, according to http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar
[17:22] <mathiaz> nealmcb: the desktop team is in ubuntu-desktop AFAICT
[17:23] <ttx> it would still be good to be done in 10 minutes though :)
[17:23] <nealmcb> mathiaz: ahh - good point
=== bjf is now known as bjf-afk
[17:23] <nealmcb> ttx: no - go for a record!!
[17:24] <mathiaz> zul: seems like a good list of bugs - nominate and accept them
[17:24] <zul> mathiaz: the ones on my list above are realllly easy to fix and they have all been fixed in karmic
[17:24] <zul> mathiaz:k
[17:24] <mathiaz> anything else on the fixedbugs list from last week?
[17:24] <ttx> nijaba: about a human-readable ec2-version-query, I suggest you bring it up to one of the MLs, at worse put in on the agenda for next week meeting.
[17:24] <ttx> mathiaz: nope
[17:25] <zul> nope
[17:25] <nijaba> ttx: ok, will do
[17:25] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on then
[17:26] <mathiaz> http://us-dappernominated.notlong.com/
[17:26] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-dappernominated.notlong.com/
[17:26] <mathiaz> iz empty
[17:26] <mathiaz> http://us-hardynominated.notlong.com/
[17:26] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-hardynominated.notlong.com/
[17:26] <ttx> 309632: -1, implies some behavior change
[17:26] <ttx> 406171: +1
[17:27] <mathiaz> ttx: declined and approved
[17:27] <mathiaz> http://us-intrepidnominated.notlong.com/
[17:27] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-intrepidnominated.notlong.com/
[17:27] <mathiaz> iz empty
[17:27] <mathiaz> http://us-jauntynominated.notlong.com/
[17:27] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-jauntynominated.notlong.com/
[17:28] <mathiaz> empty as well
[17:28] <ttx> yay
[17:28] <zul> yay
[17:28] <mathiaz> so next in line
[17:28] <mathiaz> http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/buglists/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[17:28] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/buglists/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[17:28] <mathiaz> ^^ this is the list of accepted bugs that have an assigne
[17:28] <mathiaz> assignee
[17:28] <mathiaz> for packages related to the ubuntu-server team
[17:28] <mathiaz> kirkland: what's the status on the kvm bugs?
[17:29]  * kirkland looks
[17:29] <kirkland> mathiaz: i had a heavy-duty bug triage day on friday
[17:29] <mathiaz> and we need to assign http://launchpad.net/bugs/200614
[17:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 200614 in net-snmp "segfault and warnings from net-snmp 5.4.x" [Undecided,Fix released]
[17:29] <kirkland> mathiaz: went through 100+ kvm and qemu bugs
[17:30] <mathiaz> kirkland: right - I was specifically refering to the kvm bugs listed above
[17:30] <mathiaz> kirkland: http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/buglists/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[17:30] <mathiaz> kirkland: what's the state of the sru process?
[17:30] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm not actively working any of these
[17:30] <mathiaz> zul: same for the vblades?
[17:31] <kirkland> mathiaz: the only thing on my sru radar is a possible qcow2 curruption on jaunty
[17:31] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - so you may wanna unassigned yourself then
[17:31] <kirkland> mathiaz: i am to prepare a ppa package for the user reporting the issue, to see if it solves his problem
[17:31] <zul> mathiaz: its been uploaded looking for testers
[17:31] <kirkland> mathiaz: will do
[17:31] <mathiaz> and bug 127836
[17:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 127836 in bacula "[SRU] bacula-director-pgsql not installable" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/127836
[17:31] <mathiaz> Nafallo: ^^?
[17:31] <mathiaz> Nafallo: are you still working on this one?
[17:32] <mathiaz> zul: could you work on bug 200614?
[17:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 200614 in net-snmp "segfault and warnings from net-snmp 5.4.x" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/200614
[17:32] <mathiaz> soren: bug 251480?
[17:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 251480 in kvm "X hangs in Intrepid in KVM" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/251480
[17:32] <zul> mathiaz: yeah ill but it in my list for net-snmp
[17:33] <mathiaz> and last list to review: https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+requestedreviews
[17:33] <mathiaz> which of course is empty
[17:33] <mathiaz> as noone is using pkg branches for SRU work for now
[17:33] <soren> mathiaz: Yeah, uh...
[17:34] <mathiaz> soren: still planning on fixing it?
[17:34] <soren> I don't actually.
[17:34]  * soren unassigns
[17:35] <mathiaz> ok - that's all for now
[17:35] <mathiaz> ttx: ^^ for the sru review
[17:35] <mathiaz> The first part is under control now - we should focus on using pkg branches for preparing SRU and review them
[17:36] <ttx> ok
[17:36] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[17:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[17:37] <ttx> no time for that, I guess
[17:37] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:38] <ttx> next week, same place, same time, hopefully shorter ?
[17:38] <soren> Much.
[17:38] <nealmcb> :)
[17:38] <ivoks> we could even skip it, since we worked so hard today :D
[17:38] <mathiaz> +1
[17:38] <soren> +100
[17:38] <ttx> the action review just ate the first 45 minutes, sorry about that
[17:39] <nealmcb> nijaba: where is the sun jdk / karmic conversation going on?
[17:39]  * soren needs to leave
[17:39] <ttx> nealmcb: I think it's a TB matter
[17:39] <soren> see you guys later.
[17:39] <nealmcb> ttx: thx
[17:39] <kirkland> o/
[17:39] <erichammond> Thanks, all.
[17:40] <nurmi> thanks all
[17:40] <ttx> #endmeeting
</pre>
