{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** (jgrimm) email jamepage -> checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
** Active work that may need wider communication
* Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
** https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
** https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:05.

** ''ACTION:'' jgrimm: send jamespage email about iscsitarget
*** Not Done

==== Zesty Development ====
The discussion about "Zesty Development" started at 16:09.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core 
*** teward: nginx was broken temporarily. Fixed now. Merge planned in near future.
*** cpaelzer: strongswan, dovecot merges in progress
*** rbasak: landing mysql-5.7 5.7.16
*** Debian dropping powerpc architecture
***** ''ACTION:'' jgrimm: email ubuntu dev mailing lists about powerpc arch
*** jgrimm: ask nacc to coordinate python-django update with maas & openstack teams
**** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-django/+bug/1605278 
**** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-django/+bug/1605278/comments/10 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:19)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)" started at 16:21.

** caribou: SRUs in play for ifupdown, pip, samba, makedumpfile, dhclient
** tinoco: working qemu/libvirt
*** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/nova/+bug/1613423
** jgrimm: relevant to server. FYI.
*** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/klibc/+bug/1621507 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:29.

** powersj:  cloud-init integration testing focused.
** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:32.

** nothing

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:33.

** ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/
** ODS and Linux Plumbers happened recently. Awareness if interested in reading up.  

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:34.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:35.

** jgrimm: FYI, Promised SRU team we'd formalize an SRU exception for cloud-init/curtin projects. 

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, November 15 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. besiner chair still

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:04 <jgrimm> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:04 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov  8 16:04:20 2016 UTC.  The chair is jgrimm. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:04 <meetingology> 

 16:04 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:04 <nacc> o/

 16:05 <jgrimm> hi folks, sorry for slow start

 16:05 <jgrimm> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:05 <jgrimm> (jamespage) checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels

 16:06 <jgrimm> jamespage, around ^^

 16:07 <jgrimm> seems not, i'll take action to follow-up in email, this has sat around in actions for a long while

 16:07 <nacc> jgrimm: thanks

 16:08 <jgrimm> #action jgrimm: send jamespage email about iscsitarget

 16:08 * meetingology jgrimm: send jamespage email about iscsitarget

 16:08 <jgrimm> that looks to be only thing from last week

 16:09 <jgrimm> #topic Zesty Development

 16:09 <jgrimm> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:09 <jgrimm> anyone want to discuss something wrt Zesty?

 16:09 <teward> *raises hand* I broke nginx for a short while in Zesty two weeks ago... fixed now, but we can thank Debian's security fix patch and a small mistake on my part for that.

 16:10 <teward> there's going to be an nginx merge I'd like some spot checking on and testing when I finish prepping it, i'll send a mail to the list for the call for testing

 16:10 <jgrimm> cool, thanks for being on top of that teward

 16:10 <teward> yep

 16:10 <jgrimm> i know cpaelzer is working through gnarly strongswan merge..

 16:11 <cpaelzer> yeah and dovecot just donw

 16:11 <rbasak> I'm still trying to land mysql-5.7 5.7.16.

 16:11 <jgrimm> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core

 16:11 <powersj> jgrimm: from last week we should email server list re: powerpc + debian

 16:12 <jgrimm> powersj, thanks for the reminder

 16:12 <jgrimm> so what powersj is is referring to is that debian is dropping powerpc arch

 16:13 <jgrimm> so i'm planning to send an email to ubuntu mls on the future (or possibly lack of) future for that arch in  ubuntu

 16:13 <jgrimm> #action jgrimm: email ubuntu dev mailing lists about powerpc arch

 16:13 * meetingology jgrimm: email ubuntu dev mailing lists about powerpc arch

 16:14 <jgrimm> if you have capacity to help with merges feel free to sign yourself up in the blueprint; but i'll probably do some active recruitment shortly too

 16:15 <jgrimm> nacc, i have general agreement from maas team with python-django moving forward

 16:15 <nacc> jgrimm: great

 16:15 <nacc> importer changes are almost done, working on `usd ` today and I will pivot to merges

 16:16 <jgrimm> i talked to that team last week and they asked that we do it early in cycle if possible

 16:16 <nacc> ack

 16:16 <jgrimm> nacc, cool. thanks

 16:16 <nacc> i'll sync with them before upload

 16:16 <jgrimm> thanks, you may also want to check with the debian openstack folks, looks like they are planning an even newer django soon.

 16:17 <nacc> ack

 16:17 <jgrimm> found the bug

 16:17 <jgrimm> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-django/+bug/1605278

 16:17 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1605278 in MAAS "Merge python-django 1:1.9.8-1 (main) from Debian unstable (main)" [Wishlist,Triaged]

 16:18 <jgrimm> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-django/+bug/1605278/comments/10

 16:18 <jgrimm> ok, anything else zesty related?

 16:19 <jgrimm> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:19 <jgrimm> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:19 <powersj> fyi for those doing triage, if you haven't noticed each of us has an assigned day Tuesday-Friday and rotate Monday now.

 16:19 <jgrimm> we should switch that to z now. :)

 16:19 <jgrimm> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:20 <jgrimm> thanks powersj

 16:20 <jgrimm> ok, nothing critical in the z-tracking report

 16:21 <jgrimm> moving on

 16:21 <jgrimm> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)

 16:21 <caribou> Active SRU list :

 16:21 <caribou> LP: #1626258 [SRU] AttributeError: 'Requirement' object has no attribute 'project_name'

 16:21 <caribou> - Uploaded to Z; X & Y to follow

 16:21 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1626258 in python-pip (Ubuntu Yakkety) "[SRU] AttributeError: 'Requirement' object has no attribute 'project_name'" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1626258

 16:21 <caribou> LP: #1584485 Upgrading samba to latest security fixes together with winbind in nsswitch.conf can harm entire OS

 16:21 <caribou> - Uploaded to Z, X & Y to follow

 16:21 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1584485 in samba (Ubuntu Yakkety) "Upgrading samba to latest security fixes together with winbind in nsswitch.conf can harm entire OS" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1584485

 16:21 <caribou> LP: #1447715 dhclient -6: Can't bind to dhcp address: Cannot assign requested address

 16:21 <caribou> - Need to be uploaded to Xenial

 16:21 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1447715 in ifupdown (Ubuntu Xenial) "dhclient -6: Can't bind to dhcp address: Cannot assign requested address" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1447715

 16:22 <caribou> other : makedumpfile is finally fixed for kernel 4.8 & uploaded to Z

 16:22 <caribou> SRU for Y & X to follow

 16:22 <caribou> (done)

 16:22 <jgrimm> thanks caribou

 16:22 <jgrimm> any questions?

 16:23 <jgrimm> any other SRU work in progress that folks should highlight?

 16:23 <jgrimm> cpaelzer, ^^

 16:23 <jgrimm> dovecot?

 16:24 <tinoco> jgrimm: im fixing qemu+libvirt live migration

 16:24 <tinoco> jgrimm: live migration is broken using mitaka cloud-archives and trusty kernel

 16:25 <tinoco> thats worth to mention (apparmor blocks live migration)

 16:25 <cpaelzer> dovecot had a crash on huge mails filtering that I'm working on

 16:25 <jgrimm> tinoco, do you have a link for us?

 16:25 <cpaelzer> tinoco: thanks - for your work on this - so this is kernel dependent then?

 16:26 <tinoco> upstrema: https://bugs.launchpad.net/qemu/+bug/1626972

 16:26 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1626972 in QEMU "QEMU memfd_create fallback mechanism change for security drivers" [Undecided,In progress]

 16:26 <tinoco> ours: https://bugs.launchpad.net/nova/+bug/1613423

 16:26 <ubottu> Error: launchpad bug 1613423 not found

 16:26 <tinoco> (its a security fix, its closed)

 16:26 <cpaelzer> tinoco: once you have a proposed upload e.g. in a ppa please let me know, I have some extra tests I'd liek to run over with -or-for-you

 16:26 <tinoco> cpaelzer: definitely.

 16:26 <jgrimm> cpaelzer, tinoco: thanks. yes please work together

 16:27 <jgrimm> another in progress bug worth mentioning:

 16:27 <jgrimm> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/klibc/+bug/1621507

 16:27 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1621507 in open-iscsi (Ubuntu Yakkety) "initramfs-tools configure_networking() fails to dhcp ipv6 addresses" [High,In progress]

 16:28 <jgrimm> just for awareness or if anyone else wants to join in the review

 16:28 <jgrimm> ok, that's all I can think of off top of my head atm

 16:29 <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:29 <powersj> Back from sprint. Started running automated zesty ISO tests with positive results and made a few Jenkinks changes to QEMU/live migration (thanks cpaelzer).

 16:29 <powersj> Short week with Friday being holiday, gotta chatch up on cloud-init integration. /done

 16:31 <jgrimm> thanks powersj

 16:31 <jgrimm> oops forgot the CI link

 16:31 <jgrimm> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/

 16:32 <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)

 16:32 <jgrimm> any  kernel folks around?

 16:33 <jgrimm> ok, moving on

 16:33 <jgrimm> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:33 <jgrimm> #link https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/

 16:34 <jgrimm> not seeing anything interesting

 16:34 <jgrimm> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:35 <jgrimm> Plumbers and ODS happened in last couple weeks. I haven't caught up on trip reports or articles yet

 16:35 <jgrimm> anyone have anything to bring up?

 16:35 <jgrimm> #topic Open Discussion

 16:36 <jgrimm> I took a TODO to get a formal SRU exception for cloud-init processed.  We've been behaving as such without having anything really formal in place with conditions/testing needed.

 16:37 <jgrimm> really something we should have had in place long ago, so time to clean this up as well help with SRU team processing

 16:37 <jgrimm> that's all i have.  anyone else?

 16:38 <jgrimm> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:38 <nacc> jgrimm: that sounds commendable :)

 16:38 <jgrimm> :)

 16:38 <jgrimm> same place and time next week.   beisner still up as chair

 16:38 <tinoco> o/

 16:39 <jgrimm> #endmeeting

</pre>
