{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** add subtopics for release-bugs/BP;s under precise/current development
* Precise Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Zentyal Packages (http://pad.lv/928501) - SpamapS
   - Review has been pending for a long time. Need to break it up and get it done.
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

** arosales: add subtopics for release-bugs/BP;s under precise/current development

It was decided (again) that release bugs and blueprints should be split into
separate sub-sections in the agenda.

A great number of bugs and work items were discussed, some things were
postponed or dropped, but most things seemed on track.  See the full log for
details.

smb has been looking at libvirt+xen with respect to pxe-boot and filing and
fixing a few bugs.  He and SpamapS both have noticed degraded performance
in apt-cacher-ng over past releases.

Finally, the ebox to zentyal transition is almost completed.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Mar 20 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:05] <s3hh> #startmeeting
[16:05] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Mar 13 16:05:17 2012 UTC.  The chair is s3hh. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:05] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[16:05] <SpamapS> s3hh: who are you?
[16:05] <s3hh> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:05] <s3hh> your WORST NIGHTMIGHTE
[16:05] <SpamapS> lol
[16:05] <s3hh> i'm in ur meetings, takin over ur agendas
[16:05] <SpamapS> fine
[16:06] <jamespage> o/
[16:06] <adam_g> \o
[16:06] <Daviey> o/
[16:06] <s3hh> so, i'm looking through the irc log for the action items, hopefully i don't miss any :)
[16:06] <arosales> o/
[16:06] <s3hh> add subtopics for release-bugs/BP;s under precise/current development
[16:06] <s3hh> (believe that's SpamapS ?)
[16:07] <s3hh> guess not
[16:07] <arosales> s3hh: I think rbasak and I proposed that last week
[16:07] <SpamapS> huh?
[16:08] <arosales> basically to add sub-topics under precise development to include bugs and blueprints we want to discuss
[16:08] <s3hh> did anyone volunteer to do that?
[16:08] <s3hh> (noone was assigned)_
[16:08] <arosales> so going forward we may change the meeting template to have that.  Is that ok with the team going forward?
[16:09] <s3hh> i think, absolutely
[16:09] <SpamapS> would be nice so we can prepare for the meeting better
[16:09] <s3hh> new action, assign to arosales?
[16:09] <arosales> s3hh: sure, I'll take that one
[16:09] <s3hh> #action arosales: add subtopics for release-bugs/BP;s under precise/current development
[16:09] <meetingology> ACTION: arosales: add subtopics for release-bugs/BP;s under precise/current development
[16:09] <s3hh> arosales: thanks
[16:09] <s3hh> ok, that's it for actions that i can find in the irc log
[16:10] <s3hh> #topic Precise Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Precise Development
[16:10] <s3hh> take it away, Daviey or arosales ...
[16:10] <Daviey> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
[16:10] <arosales> bug 924739
[16:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 924739 in squid3 (Ubuntu Precise) "after upgrade from oneiric to precise, previous squid config unused, cannot be used when relocated" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/924739
[16:10] <Daviey> SpamapS: can you iterate through them, then do WI progress?
[16:11] <SpamapS> sure
[16:11] <adam_g> arosales: ive begun working on a patch to packaging to help make the transition more obvious to users, should have something proposed here soon
[16:11] <Daviey> adam_g: great!
[16:11] <SpamapS> https://launchpad.net/bugs/924739
[16:11] <arosales> adam_g: Thanks for continuing to chop away on that one.
[16:12] <SpamapS> bug 883988
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 883988 in glance (Ubuntu Precise) "db migration failing when upgrading glance - trying to create existing tables" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/883988
[16:12] <SpamapS> no zul today, seems like something he'd be working on.
[16:12] <adam_g> SpamapS: and for that, ive come up with a glance patch
[16:12] <SpamapS> ahh sweet
[16:12] <adam_g> just need to do some more thorough testing this week
[16:12] <SpamapS> bug 893926
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 893926 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "Contains traces of UEC" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/893926
[16:12] <SpamapS> Ugh, thats been open since 11.10
[16:12] <Daviey> SpamapS: hoped it would be solved from a Debian sync
[16:12] <SpamapS> Volunteers?
[16:13] <Daviey> no progress.
[16:13] <SpamapS> utlemming: I choose you!
[16:13] <SpamapS> utlemming: think you could dig through and tear out the Ubuntu branding from that package?
[16:13] <SpamapS> should be a quick job
[16:14] <SpamapS> while we wait for utlemming's response..
[16:14] <SpamapS> 925024
[16:14] <SpamapS> bug 925024
[16:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 925024 in lxc (Ubuntu) "apparmor makes it impossible to install postgresql-common on Precise" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/925024
[16:14]  * utlemming consents
[16:14] <SpamapS> Anybody looked at that?
[16:14] <SpamapS> s3hh: got cycles to triage?
[16:14] <s3hh> solved in a jjohansen kernel
[16:14] <SpamapS> oh awesome ok
[16:14] <SpamapS> s3hh: so perhaps the status should be In Progress ?
[16:14] <s3hh> maybe - i'll change it
[16:15] <s3hh> heck maybe fix committed
[16:15] <SpamapS> utlemming: Thanks, please assign that bug to yourself and.. just so you know, we're all counting on you.. good luck
[16:15] <SpamapS> ;)
[16:15] <s3hh> i think it's in the kernel source
[16:15] <s3hh> jjohansen: can you confirm?
[16:15] <SpamapS> s3hh: awesome, thanks
[16:15] <SpamapS> bug 850443
[16:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 850443 in python-eventlet (Ubuntu) "Nova API does not listen on IPv6" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/850443
[16:15] <SpamapS> Daviey: ping?
[16:16] <jjohansen> s3hh: the fix isn't in precise yet, but I will be pushing out the patches today
[16:16] <SpamapS> I'm going to skip the zentyal bug as its a bigger discussion
[16:16] <SpamapS> bug 928990
[16:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 928990 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "fsck / dirty filesystem on instance is death" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/928990
[16:16] <Daviey> SpamapS: HEY
[16:16] <SpamapS> Daviey: ^^ eventlet bug?
[16:16] <Daviey> STIL AWAIITNG NEWS FROM UPSTREM
[16:16] <Daviey> gah
[16:16] <Daviey> Might be deferred
[16:16] <SpamapS> Daviey: ACK, will that be an SRU candidate?
[16:16] <Daviey> maybe
[16:17] <Daviey> SpamapS: it unblocks ipv6 on openstack
[16:17] <SpamapS> Seems like it has to be.. IPv6 will conceivably be very important over the next 5 years
[16:17] <Daviey> If it does unblock, the no, not SRU candidate
[16:17] <Daviey> (ie, if it uncovers other issues)
[16:17] <SpamapS> smoser: any news on that fsck bug for cloud-init ?
[16:18] <SpamapS> utlemming: maybe you've been looking at it?
[16:18] <smoser> SpamapS, no. i've not looked at it.
[16:18] <smoser> its marked 'High', but...
[16:18] <smoser> its been that way since, well, forever.
[16:18] <smoser> :)
[16:18] <smoser> i'd like to have it fixed though, if someone wanted to grab it
[16:18] <SpamapS> It sounds like a fun problem to solve actually
=== Marqin_ is now known as Marqin
[16:19] <SpamapS> I have basically no time.. but I'd be happy to assist anybody who takes it up.. so .. please somebody reading this, assign that bug to yourself and ping me and/or smoser :)
[16:19] <SpamapS> moving on
[16:19] <SpamapS> bug 930916
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 930916 in amavisd-new (Ubuntu) "amavis start-stop script fails to stop amavisd" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/930916
[16:20] <SpamapS> looks like a cherry pick from Debian
[16:20] <SpamapS> I'll take that.
[16:20] <SpamapS> bug 880339
[16:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 880339 in mysql-5.1 (Ubuntu Precise) "AppArmor profile needs update" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/880339
[16:21] <SpamapS> mysql-5.1 is being removed from precise
[16:21] <SpamapS> will update as such, moving on
[16:22] <SpamapS> bug 907197
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 907197 in nova (Ubuntu) "ip address can't be injected into the instance when using lxc " [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/907197
[16:22] <adam_g> i think chuck was looking at that
[16:22] <SpamapS> Yeah I think we'll just defer that to next week
[16:22] <SpamapS> bug 918791
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 918791 in qemu-kvm (Ubuntu Precise) "qemu-kvm dies when using vmvga driver and unity in the guest" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/918791
[16:22] <SpamapS> s3hh: guessing thats you?
[16:22] <justinlw> serge has a patch, but I'm dubious
[16:23] <s3hh> justinlw: why dubious?
[16:23] <s3hh> the only response on qemu m-l has been a tested-by
[16:23] <s3hh> so i think it's going in upstream
[16:23] <justinlw> it doesn't fix the real issue.  it prevents the crash
[16:23] <SpamapS> w00t :)
[16:23] <SpamapS> justinlw: this is not the segfault you're looking for..
[16:23] <s3hh> the real issue is vnc can't handle negative mappings
[16:23] <justinlw> curses.  overruled again. :-)
[16:24] <s3hh> so we hide those.
[16:24] <SpamapS> Ok sounds like you guys have that one under control
[16:24] <SpamapS> bug 901881
[16:24] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 901881 in glance (Ubuntu) "nova and glance should depend on python-keystone" [Low,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/901881
[16:24] <adam_g> SpamapS: still blocked on keystone's MIR, i think
[16:25] <SpamapS> roger..
[16:25] <SpamapS> since we have so many MIR's filed, lets check in on them
[16:25] <SpamapS> bug 912861
[16:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 912861 in txaws (Ubuntu) "[MIR] juju, txaws, txzookeeper" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/912861
[16:25] <SpamapS> jdstrand is taking a look at that one today I believe. :)
[16:26] <SpamapS> bug 913883
[16:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 913883 in zookeeper (Ubuntu) "[MIR] zookeeper, netty, log4cxx" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/913883
[16:26] <SpamapS> and we got a conditional ACK on that one from jdstrand as well.. need to add a bit of documentation but its just about ready (I'm working on that)
[16:26] <SpamapS> bug 914164
[16:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 914164 in horizon (Ubuntu) "[MIR] horizon" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/914164
[16:27] <SpamapS> Bueller? Bueller?
[16:27] <jdstrand> (I approved txzookeeper btw, looking at txaws now)
[16:27] <SpamapS> jdstrand: excellent thanks!
[16:27] <SpamapS> ok horizon was Chuck's mir so we'll skip
=== jussi01 is now known as jussi
[16:28] <SpamapS> bug 881464
[16:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 881464 in keystone (Ubuntu) "[MIR] keystone" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/881464
[16:29] <Daviey> in progress.
[16:29] <SpamapS> anything to report?
[16:29] <Daviey> no, still ongoing
[16:29] <Daviey> It's not a small task
[16:29] <SpamapS> Indeed!
[16:30] <Daviey> Being a rewrite from scratch, all previos work was invalidated
[16:30] <SpamapS> Daviey: its the spice of life baby. :)
[16:30] <Daviey> \o/
[16:30] <SpamapS> Ok, so, blueprints.
[16:30] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-cloud-power-management
[16:31] <SpamapS> I'm not familiar with that one..
[16:31] <jdstrand> (keystone has a conditional ACK for main-- but there are a lot of failing tests that might be what Daviey is referring to)
[16:32] <Daviey> SpamapS: that is really deferred.. but i've been unwilling to do so.
[16:33] <SpamapS> Daviey: maybe take an action to reach out to Uzuul?
[16:33] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-install-experience
[16:34] <SpamapS> Daviey: not that any of that can be POSTPONED .. but.. any updates?
[16:34] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-juju-charm-testing
[16:34] <Daviey> SpamapS: they've either been done or postponed.
[16:35] <Daviey> (updated)
[16:35] <Daviey> where postponed == no longer relevant
[16:35] <SpamapS> roger
[16:35] <SpamapS> So for charm testing.. there are some merge proposals against juju that, once ACK'd , will allow moving forward with the rest of charm testing.
[16:35] <SpamapS> Things to make it easier to write the test runner
[16:36] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-ceph
[16:36] <SpamapS> I'm afraid we may not be able to ship kvm+librados in 12.04 because ceph is not in main yet...
[16:37] <s3hh> :(
[16:37] <s3hh> but agreed
[16:37] <SpamapS> We have juju, big chunks of openstack, and then ceph .. all stacked on top of the MIR team .. so I think the first two have to take precedence.
[16:38] <s3hh> agreed
[16:38] <SpamapS> jdstrand: anything we can do to ease the MIR team's burden?
[16:39] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-openstack-testing
[16:40] <SpamapS> Collaborate on defining charm use workflow between OpenStack and Ubuntu: TODO
[16:40] <SpamapS> adam_g: whats the status of that? Can we do that de-coupled from the precise release? (as in, POSTPONED) ?
[16:40] <adam_g> SpamapS: i think that will likely happen at the openstack design summit next month
[16:40] <jamespage> adam_g, agreed
[16:41] <SpamapS> ok, sounds like that should stay TODO and will be sorted then
[16:41] <adam_g> SpamapS: but yeah, its not tied to the release schedule. so..
[16:41] <SpamapS> adam_g: can you add a  "Discussion pending at ODS" note or something to explain that?
[16:41] <adam_g> sure
[16:41] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-automated-boot-testing
[16:42] <SpamapS> I plan to work on that this week, as my reboot tests have never worked right. :(
[16:42] <jamespage> SpamapS, I had a look at that yesterday - lets talk  (its not working ATM)
[16:42] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-orchestra
[16:42] <jamespage> (I can fix it tho)
[16:42] <SpamapS> "50% of 50" ??
[16:43] <SpamapS> jamespage: Oh! you have an idea? I think its probably something simple. :)
[16:43] <jamespage> SpamapS, yep - I know what the issue is
[16:43] <SpamapS> jamespage: its just such a monstrous thing to spin up a test env (too bad its not charmed.. ;)
[16:43] <jamespage> SpamapS, meh - its not to bad
[16:43] <SpamapS> jamespage: ok, post meeting then. :)
[16:43] <jamespage> yep
[16:44] <SpamapS> roaksoax: the orchestra blueprint.. it seems a bit behind schedule..I see a lot of "raise MIR if needed" .. whats the status there?
[16:45] <roaksoax> SpamapS: waiting for MaaS to MIR the rest
[16:45] <SpamapS> ok cool
[16:46] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-kvm-document-suggested-changes
[16:46] <s3hh> still holding off on that until bugs and features are in check
[16:47] <s3hh> iow, it's not subject to any freezes, so i'm keeping it for last
[16:47] <SpamapS> s3hh: roger, just poking you because it shows up on status.ubuntu.com as being a bit behind
[16:47] <s3hh> aqctually i may do a first run this week or next
[16:47] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-openstack-charms
[16:47] <s3hh> SpamapS: i may postpone parts of it
[16:47] <s3hh> and only do the io benchmarks this cycle
[16:47] <SpamapS> s3hh: sooner you do that, the better we know what else we don't have to postpone. :)
[16:48] <adam_g> SpamapS: the swift charm is really something i think we need done this cycle, but the rest are either nice-to-haves  or waiting on collcation/subordinates
[16:48] <SpamapS> adam_g: openstack charms look like there is a lot of opportunistic work there to do if you have spare cycles ...
[16:48] <s3hh> SpamapS: will do it today
[16:49] <SpamapS> adam_g: hazmat/bcsaller/jimbaker are sprinting this week, I expect subordinates to land as a result. :)
[16:49] <adam_g> party time
[16:49] <jamespage> \o/
[16:49] <SpamapS> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-juju-roadmap
[16:49] <SpamapS> This one is actually looking pretty good compared to 2 weeks ago
[16:49] <SpamapS> constraints has landed!!
[16:50] <SpamapS> And if you look at the In Progress bugs there, those are in review actually.
[16:50] <SpamapS> So, huzzah, we should have it soon. :)
[16:51] <SpamapS> ok we are short on time, so I'm going to move on
[16:51] <SpamapS> s3hh: thanks Mr. Chekov.. take us out.
[16:51] <s3hh> thanks SpamapS
[16:52] <s3hh> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:52] <s3hh> uds coming up of course
[16:52] <arosales> m_3 @ MountainWestRuby
[16:52] <arosales> Mrch 15 - 17
[16:52] <s3hh> minor chance that i may be going to end-user l-f summit to query end users on their usage of cgroups
[16:52] <s3hh> not sure when, hoping i can trick someone else into going
[16:53] <arosales> SpamapS: 2 charm schools done in the past week
[16:53] <SpamapS> YES
[16:53] <SpamapS> yesterday went quite well
[16:53] <arosales> 1 webinar, and 1 in SF
[16:53] <SpamapS> write-up to juju@l.u.c coming :)
[16:53] <SpamapS> not SF
[16:53] <SpamapS> Santa Clara != SF :)
[16:53] <arosales> Santa Clara
[16:53] <arosales> sorry
[16:54] <arosales> SpamapS: glad to hear it went well
[16:54] <SpamapS> its like calling New Jersey New York ;)
[16:54] <arosales> :-)
[16:54] <arosales> noted
[16:54] <SpamapS> Santa Clara, the land of 1000 chain restaurants
[16:54] <m_3> best indian food... ever
[16:55] <s3hh> uh, sorry, i'm dragging
[16:55] <s3hh> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:55] <s3hh> hggdh: hi, are you around?
=== yofel_ is now known as yofel
[16:56] <s3hh> moving on,
[16:56] <s3hh> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:56] <s3hh> hey smb
[16:56] <smb> Hey. I have been hacking up a few changes for xen and libvirt to avoid oddities related to pxe-boot of e1000 emulation nics and the use of any other than the default emulation through libvirt (which I could use hallyn (or s3hh or whatever he is called by then) to find out whether and how this could flow back upstream) bug 949028
[16:56] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 949028 in Ubuntu "libvirt: xen: never use type=ioemu for vif definitions" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/949028
[16:57] <smb> On completely unrelated topic /me just wants to express his unamusedness with ap
[16:57] <smb> t-cacher-ng's performance in precise (but was the same in oneiric). A good deal
[16:57] <smb> of my installs fail because it looses its mind... Nothing really that would be r
[16:57] <smb> elevant here but I wanted to take the chance to rant. :)
[16:57] <s3hh> (i'll be honest i still don't understand your ipxe request, but i'll re-read it all more closely)
[16:57] <s3hh> interesting - i use it all over the place for lxc, and haven't really noticed any probs
[16:57] <smb> s3hh, We can talk about it later too
[16:57] <SpamapS> smb: bug #? I also am not super happy with it
[16:57] <smb> Beside of that I got nothing else.
[16:57] <SpamapS> Its fine in single threads
[16:57] <smb> SpamapS, Not yet, but I really should
[16:58] <SpamapS> Ok
[16:58] <SpamapS> we're almost out of time.. so..
[16:58] <s3hh> anyone have questions to ask smb?
[16:58] <s3hh> ok,
[16:58] <s3hh> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:58] <s3hh> rbasak: anything?
[16:58] <rbasak> Nothing to report.
[16:58] <rbasak> Any questions for me?
[16:58] <s3hh> thanks
[16:58] <s3hh> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Open Discussion
[16:58] <s3hh> any?
[16:58] <s3hh> 3
[16:58] <s3hh> 2
[16:58] <s3hh> 1
[16:58] <jamespage> zentyal
[16:59] <SpamapS> yes!
[16:59] <SpamapS> looks like its about ready
[16:59] <jamespage> I think its almost there - just need to sort out the transition from ebox packages and its ready to upload
[16:59] <SpamapS> huats: nicely done
[16:59] <SpamapS> jamespage: you too! my hero!
[16:59] <SpamapS> FFe is granted too
[16:59] <jamespage> FFe approved and archive admin found to review - thanks tumbleweed and  Riddell
[17:00] <jamespage> done
[17:00] <s3hh> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Announce next meeting date and time
[17:00] <s3hh> Tuesday mar 20, 16:00 UTC
[17:00] <s3hh> thanks all
[17:00] <s3hh> #endmeeting
</pre>
