{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Sep 16th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:08] <coreycb> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:08] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep  9 16:08:13 2014 UTC.  The chair is coreycb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:08] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:08] <coreycb> hello everyone
[16:08] <rbasak> o/
[16:08] <coreycb> welcome to the weekely server team meeting
[16:08] <coreycb> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:09] <jamespage> o/
[16:10] <coreycb> I don't see any action items from 9/2
[16:10] <coreycb> #topic Utopic Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Utopic Development
[16:10] <coreycb> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
[16:11] <coreycb> It's sept 9th today.  Final beta freeze is 9/25
[16:12] <coreycb> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:12] <coreycb> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:13] <coreycb> looks like the only non committed bug is bug 1350810
[16:13] <ubottu> bug 1350810 in byobu (Ubuntu Utopic) "Shift-F2 no longer working in Byobu in Ubuntu 14.10 (utopic) with tmux 1.9" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1350810
[16:13] <coreycb> that is, for bugs of high or critical importance
[16:13] <coreycb> that's byobu, I'll ping kirkland
[16:14] <coreycb> I don't see him in here so I pinged him separately
[16:14] <coreycb> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:15] <coreycb> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
[16:16] <coreycb> please review your assigned blueprints for any features that need to be postponed for 14.10 release, since we're beyond feature freeze
[16:17] <coreycb> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server
[16:17] <coreycb> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:17] <coreycb> good timing caribou
[16:18] <caribou> coreycb: indeed.
[16:18] <caribou> coreycb: everything is ok on my side
[16:18] <coreycb> caribou, ok thanks
[16:18] <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:18] <coreycb> psivaa, howdy
[16:19] <psivaa> coreycb: nothing from us this week too
[16:19] <coreycb> psivaa, ok thanks
[16:19] <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
[16:19] <arges> o/
[16:19] <arges> coreycb: you can probably add me to the list since i'll be attending these too
[16:20] <coreycb> arges, will do, was just thinking that
[16:20] <coreycb> arges, smb, sforshee: do you have any updates this week?
[16:20] <sforshee> smb is still out, I don't have any updates
[16:21] <arges> kickinz1: bcache bug is fixed upstream, so that should trickle down soon
[16:21] <coreycb> sforshee, ok thanks.  does anyone have anything for the kernel team?
[16:21] <kickinz1> arges, thanks!
[16:22] <coreycb> thanks arges , anything else?
[16:22] <arges>  no
[16:23] <coreycb> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:23] <coreycb> I know there are a few different sprints going on
[16:23] <coreycb> is there anything we'd like to discuss here?
[16:24] <coreycb> alright
[16:24] <coreycb> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:24] <zul> i like peanuts
[16:24] <coreycb> does anyone have anything they'd like to discuss?  (other than zul)
[16:24] <coreycb> :)
[16:25] <caribou> zul: Snoopy is my favorite
[16:25] <zul> i like marmalade
[16:25] <coreycb> zul also likes turtles
[16:25] <coreycb> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:25] <zul> indeed
[16:25] <coreycb> +7 days!
[16:26] <coreycb> thanks everyone
[16:26] <coreycb> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:26] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Sep  9 16:26:16 2014 UTC.
[16:26] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-09-09-16.08.moin.txt
</pre>
