{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued)
** [ACTION] all: test alpha2
* Oneiric Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Oneiric Development =====
===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
* adam_g will be doing an ensemble presentation at portland AWS users group July 19
* Daviey will attend (attended) http://emeaopenstackday.eventbrite.com/

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
* No discussion

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
* smb has finally nailed down a solution for t1.micro instances and java (http://pad.lv/634487).  Sadly, it requires changes to dom0 kernel, meaning it is nothing we can fix ourselves.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander) =====
* No discussion, NCommander not available
* smoser pointed to pxe and panda board post at https://rsalveti.wordpress.com/2011/07/11/net-booting-with-tftp-and-pxe-with-pandaboard/

===== Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community =====
* No discussion

===== Open Discussion =====
* Ursinha has reenabled the SRU team scripts, so they'll have SRU reports again

===== Meeting Actions =====

* ACTION received:  sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued)

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====
* Next meeting will be at Tue, 19 Jul 2011 16:00:00 +0000 in #ubuntu-meeting

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:04] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:04. The chair is smoser.
[16:04] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:04] <smoser> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:04] <smoser>  * sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued)
[16:04] <smoser> no sommer here.
[16:04] <smoser> no j1mc here.
[16:05] <smoser> marking postponed
[16:05] <smoser> [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued)
[16:05] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued)
[16:05] <smoser>  * test alpha2
[16:05] <smoser> woot. alpha2 delievered. i assume tested.
[16:06] <smoser> my personal thanks to jamespage and utlemming for helping with cloud images in my absense.
[16:06] <smoser> moving on
[16:06] <smoser> [TOPIC] Oneiric Development
[16:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Oneiric Development
[16:06] <Daviey> o/
[16:06] <smoser> Daviey, anything here?
[16:06] <Daviey> Looking at the current progres we have taken on more work items, this is probably due to some discovieries we had week before last.  I think we are on track to be able to still deliever what we have committed to.  If anyone has any specifc concerns regarding work items, please raise them now.
[16:07] <Daviey> Regarding incomming bug count, this seems to have raised significantly.  Most of them don't seem to be Oneiric, but stable releases.  The higher count is probably due to people targetting their time to feature work, and getting A2 out of the door.  The smaller team last week, is also probably a contributing factor.
[16:07] <Daviey> Anyone have anything specific to raise?
[16:07] <zul> nope..
[16:07] <Daviey> good stuff.. smoser, feel free to progress then. :)
[16:07] <smoser> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:07] <smoser> i heard that Daviey is attending an openstack europe event tomorrow.
[16:08] <smoser> any thing else ?
[16:08] <Daviey> not from me
[16:08] <adam_g> ill be doing an ensemble presentation at portland AWS users group  july 19
[16:08] <serue> cool
[16:08] <Daviey> http://emeaopenstackday.eventbrite.com/
[16:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://emeaopenstackday.eventbrite.com/
[16:08] <Daviey> (feel free to say H"i")
[16:09] <smoser> i think its time for our friend hggdh now.
[16:09] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:09] <hggdh> I am here :-)
[16:09] <hggdh> (for a change)
[16:09] <hggdh> and no news from me
[16:09] <hggdh> ..
[16:10] <smoser> then we move on to another intelligent young man
[16:10] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:10]  * smb thinks he found the final answer to bug 634487
[16:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 634487 in linux (Ubuntu Natty) "t1.micro instance hangs when installing java" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/634487
[16:10] <smb> Though you won't like it...
[16:10] <smb> The answer to that bug is...
[16:11]  * smoser stopped his hands from clapping
[16:11] <smb> You really want to hear?
[16:11] <utlemming> use a different instance type?
[16:11] <smb> f1574ad9f702
[16:11] <smoser> http://xen.1045712.n5.nabble.com/xen-3-1-testing-x86-Fix-mod-l3-entry-for-PAE-on-64-guests-The-adjustment-of-td2616303.html ?
[16:11] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://xen.1045712.n5.nabble.com/xen-3-1-testing-x86-Fix-mod-l3-entry-for-PAE-on-64-guests-The-adjustment-of-td2616303.html ?
[16:12] <smb> This is the xen-3.1 patch that Amazon has to apply to their dom0.
[16:12] <smoser> yeah
[16:12] <smoser> well, its something at least.
[16:12] <smb> I seemed to work for me when applying to centos5.3
[16:12] <smoser> we will raise that.
[16:12] <smb> before 3/3 fail
[16:12] <smb> after 3/3 ok
[16:12]  * smb will update the bug report
[16:12] <smoser> thank you, mr smb.
[16:13] <smoser> you have anything else ?
[16:13] <smb> nope
[16:13] <smb> ..
[16:13] <smb> (apart from it being hot here)
[16:13] <smoser> smb, can you confirm for me https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux
[16:13] <smb> ?
[16:13] <smoser> my understanding is that I would expect a new kernel to move from -proposed to -updates in ~ 21 days
[16:13] <smoser> is that right ?
[16:13] <utlemming> smb: what versions will we backport that fix for?
[16:14] <smb> utlemming, It needs to go into the dom0 kernel
[16:14] <smb> if it is not there
[16:14] <smb> smoser, you link seems not complete
[16:15] <smb> smoser, though there were quite some unlucky delays with lucid
[16:15] <smoser> no, it was complete.
[16:15] <smoser> i'm just asking if that is the general rule
[16:15] <smoser> that when something says "2 weeks ago" in -proposed, that i would expect a flow to -updates in 1 week.
[16:16] <smb> smoser, In theory there is a three weekly cycle... in theory
[16:16] <smb> for some of those there were regressions
[16:16] <smb> which then needed another upload
[16:16] <smoser> yeah.
[16:16] <smoser> ok.
[16:17] <smoser> anythign else for our friend smb ?
[16:17] <smoser> moving on....
[16:17] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[16:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[16:17] <NCommander> on a call,
[16:18] <smoser> ok. then we're moving on... look forward to hearing more next week.
[16:18] <smoser> one interesting thing in arm, though: https://rsalveti.wordpress.com/2011/07/11/net-booting-with-tftp-and-pxe-with-pandaboard/
[16:19] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:19] <smoser> kim0, jcastro?
[16:21]  * smoser ignores the chirping crickets and moves on
[16:21] <smoser> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:22] <Ursinha> o/
[16:22] <smoser> hello Ursinha did you have something for Open Discussion ?
[16:22] <Ursinha> smoser: not sure what's this topic for, assuming it's free for all
[16:23] <Ursinha> I'd like to tell the SRU guys that I'm reenabling their scripts, so they'll have SRU reports again
[16:23] <smoser> well, i try to avoid politics and religion
[16:23] <Ursinha> lol
[16:23] <smoser> but other than that, i think its pretty open
[16:23] <Ursinha> :)
[16:23] <Ursinha> Clint isn't here, I'll poke him somewhere else :)
[16:23] <Ursinha> That was pretty much all, thanks smoser
[16:25] <smoser> in deed.  SpamapS will be disciplined for his absense.  Thank you for pointing that out.
[16:25] <smoser> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[16:25] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:26] <smoser> Tue, 19 Jul 2011 16:00:00 +0000
[16:26] <smoser> #endmeeting
[16:26] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 11:26.
[16:26] <SpamapS> just made it!
[16:26] <Ursinha> haha
[16:26] <utlemming> lol
[16:27] <SpamapS> 09:26 ... Irssi: Join to #ubuntu-meeting was synced in 0 secs
[16:27] <SpamapS> 09:26 < smoser> #endmeeting
[16:27] <SpamapS> Proof
[16:27] <Ursinha> lol
</pre>
