{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** powersj to coordinate updating of triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
** Active work that may need wider communication
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
* Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer)
* Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 30 Aug at 16:00 &mdash; 16:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-08-30-16.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:00.

** ''ACTION:'' cpaelzer and rbasak to review new triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:03.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:04.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:05.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:06.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:08.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:09.

==== Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer) ====
The discussion about "Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer)" started at 16:10.

==== Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)" started at 16:13.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* cpaelzer
** cpaelzer and rbasak to review new triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
* rbasak
** cpaelzer and rbasak to review new triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rbasak (46)
* powersj (15)
* jgrimm (7)
* cpaelzer (7)
* meetingology (4)
* caribou (3)
* smb (2)
* ubottu (1)
* gaughen (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug 30 16:00:16 2016 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:00 <rbasak> powersj to coordinate updating of triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

 16:00 <cpaelzer> o/

 16:00 <powersj> o/

 16:00 <rbasak> powersj: how's that going?

 16:00 <powersj> done! please add action item for rbasak and cpaelzer to review

 16:00 <rbasak> Excellent, thanks!

 16:01 <rbasak> #action cpaelzer and rbasak to review new triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

 16:01 * meetingology cpaelzer and rbasak to review new triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

 16:01 <rbasak> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule

 16:01 <rbasak> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:01 <rbasak> Any updates or work that needs wider communication?

 16:01 <rbasak> I sent an email about ntpdate to the ML earlier.

 16:02 <cpaelzer> I'll come to the ML with some discussion about what we face with qemu machine types

 16:02 <rbasak> Great!

 16:02 <rbasak> Anything else?

 16:02 <cpaelzer> but I'm still writing use cases and examples and discuss with more peers - so nothing for now

 16:02 <jgrimm> o/

 16:03 <rbasak> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:03 <rbasak> caribou: o/

 16:03 <caribou> rbasak: nothing much

 16:03 <caribou> rbasak: working on a sosreport subordinate charm

 16:03 <caribou> rbasak: and normal bugfixing investigation

 16:03 <rbasak> Sounds good!

 16:04 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:04 <powersj> Investigated Yakkety ISO oversize issue and determined root cause to be due to GCC 6 transition. GCC 6 binaries are significantly larger than GCC 5. Fix is planed before Yakkety release.

 16:04 <rbasak> Any updates from powersj, or questions for powersj?

 16:04 <powersj> Continuing to work with robie, cpaelzer, nacc on server bug triage. Made updates to documentation, but still need to continue documenting process and procedure as we continue to evolve it. See: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

 16:04 <powersj> Automated ISO tests are getting better. Goal is to complete triage of remaining failing tests and build action plan for final tests. These final issues are quite a bit more complicated and may require removing or revamping the tests entirely due to nature of the changes.

 16:04 <powersj> Thanks to cpaelzer have access to torkoal. RT ticket is closed, so up to us to complete the setup. May be able to get it up on Jenkins this week. Cross your fingers. Finally, getting lxctest + curtin ipv6 tests prototype working before heading out this week.

 16:05 <rbasak> Thank you powersj!

 16:05 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:05 <rbasak> Anything to/from thje kernel team?

 16:05 <smb> nothing new since last week

 16:06 <smb> as to "to" if tehre are questions?

 16:06 <rbasak> I guess not. Thank you smb!

 16:06 <rbasak> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:07 <rbasak> Any upcoming CfPs?

 16:08 <rbasak> Any upcoming events?

 16:08 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion

 16:08 <rbasak> Any other comments?

 16:09 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:09 <rbasak> The next meeting will be on Tue 6 Sep 16:00:00 UTC 2016. gaughen will chair.

 16:10 <rbasak> #topic Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer)

 16:10 * gaughen avoids eye contact

 16:10 <rbasak> gaughen: :)

 16:10 <powersj> yea! my new topic

 16:10 <rbasak> powersj: would you mind taking this topic please?

 16:10 <powersj> yes

 16:10 <rbasak> Ah :)

 16:10 <powersj> so point of this is to make sure we have coverage each week for bug triage

 16:11 <powersj> cpaelzer took Monday + weekend, I'll be taking tuesday and wednesday

 16:11 <powersj> rbasak, would you be able to triage thursday/friday?

 16:11 <powersj> we don't have nacc this week so just 3 of us

 16:11 <rbasak> Sure

 16:11 <rbasak> So when should I triage what?

 16:11 <rbasak> Are you talking about the day I triage, or the days I must cover?

 16:11 <powersj> excellent and by day I mean the day you do triage. So if you are triaging thursday/friday means you will be covering the bugs that came in wednesday/thursday

 16:12 <rbasak> OK.

 16:12 <powersj> I tried to put this on the wiki as well

 16:12 <powersj> but may need to be called out a bit better :)

 16:13 <rbasak> OK

 16:13 <rbasak> #topic Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)

 16:13 <jgrimm> rbasak, i updated my bugs

 16:13 <rbasak> Thank you!

 16:13 <jgrimm> closed 1, still have 1 assigned

 16:13 <rbasak> Does anyone else have any updates?

 16:14 <cpaelzer> I updated directly in the sheet

 16:14 <cpaelzer> and rbasak already covered the open wound that is the stalled ntp bugs with his mail

 16:14 <cpaelzer> thanks

 16:14 <jgrimm> :)

 16:14 <rbasak> Does anyone have capacity to take more bugs?

 16:15 <jgrimm> rbasak, i'll take one

 16:15 <cpaelzer> I'll add those that I already work on to the list without taking any on top

 16:15 <jgrimm> rbasak especially if you have other bite-sized

 16:16 <rbasak> jgrimm: how about bug 1580731? Looks like a straightforward SRU.

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1580731 in augeas (Ubuntu Xenial) "augeas-lenses filter for PHP files doesn't match php7.0-* files" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1580731

 16:16 <jgrimm> rbasak, sure!

 16:16 <rbasak> Great! Anyone else?

 16:17 <rbasak> OK, so I guess we're done.

 16:17 <rbasak> Thanks all!

 16:17 <rbasak> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
