{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ALL: ISO testing (including as much real hardware as possible) to smooth the way to A3!
** robbiew to ensure notifications of release candidates (and re-rolls) sent out.
** zul - Email ubuntu-devel to gather consensus on whether MySQL 5.5 should be included for Natty.
** hggdh & JamesPage to check sizing for minimal installation for QA purposes.
* Natty Development
* 10.04.2 ISO testing (zul)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
** Upcoming
*** SCALE9x - Feb 25 - 27, Los Angeles (ClintByrum attending, DustinKirkland presenting)
*** UKUUG Spring Conference - 22-24 March, ttx attending, talking OpenStack (and Ubuntu Server).
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday, February 22 2011 16:00 UTC

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* kirkland JamesPage RoAkSoax to help zul testing 10.04.2 ISOs
* zul to send e-mail to ubuntu-server ML requesting help for testing 10.04.2 ISOs
* Create a new meeting section for Ubuntu Community

===== Natty Development =====

* Eucalyptus 2.0.1 has been uploaded to Natty.
* There's a list of bugs targeted for release that need to be taken care of. A call for help will be posted at the ubuntu-server mailing list.
* An initial OCF Resource Agents for the Cloud Controller has been created. This OCF RA allows High Availability Clusters to monitor services within the cluster.

===== 10.04.2 ISO testing =====

* In preparation for the Lucid 10.04.2, ISO's are available at the iso tracker for testing (http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com)

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

* Upcoming
** <nowiki>[[http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/|SCALE9x]]</nowiki> - Feb 25 - 27, Los Angeles (ClintByrum attending, DustinKirkland <nowiki>[[http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale9x/presentations/byobu-gnu-screen-human-beings|presenting]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ukuug.org/events/spring2011/|UKUUG Spring Conference]]</nowiki> -  22-24 March, ttx attending, talking OpenStack (and Ubuntu Server).

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team =====

* Bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/709392]]</nowiki> seems to be an issue of implementation. Upstream has been contacted and according to that a fix will be rolled up.
* A fix has been committed for bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux-ec2/+bug/717177]]</nowiki>. People has been asked to test fix in bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/708920]]</nowiki>.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 14th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[10:08:08] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[10:08:42] <RoAkSoAx> ok so actions of preivous meetings are
[10:08:52] <RoAkSoAx> ALL: ISO testing (including as much real hardware as possible) to smooth the way to A3!
[10:08:58] <RoAkSoAx> Anyone anything to report here?
[10:09:38] <zul> nope
[10:09:55] <JamesPage> I've run quite a few installs in the last few days on hardware with no issues to report
[10:10:23] <Daviey> i did 2 installs and a maverick upgrade
[10:10:25] <Daviey> looking good
[10:10:49] <RoAkSoAx> ok so I guess we didn't have any oustanding issues
[10:10:58] <RoAkSoAx> next: robbiew to ensure notifications of release candidates (and re-rolls) sent out.
[10:11:04] <Daviey> no
[10:12:56] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, defer it :)
[10:13:13] <RoAkSoAx> ok then
[10:13:24] <RoAkSoAx> [ACTION] robbiew to ensure notifications of release candidates (and re-rolls) sent out. (deferred)
[10:13:39] <RoAkSoAx> next is zul - Email ubuntu-devel to gather consensus on whether MySQL 5.5 should be included for Natty.
[10:13:43] <robbiew> oops..sorry
[10:13:50] <robbiew> skaet will do the notifications
[10:13:58] <zul> done but 5.5 is not going into main for natty
[10:14:27] <zul> oracle screwed up the versions for the libmysqlclient and i really dont want to break the archive
[10:14:32] <RoAkSoAx> robbiew: awesome!
[10:14:47] <RoAkSoAx> zul: I'm assumming this will be in PPA then?
[10:14:54] <zul> RoAkSoAx: probably yes
[10:15:04] <zul> but definently natty+1
[10:15:20] <Daviey> hurrah
[10:15:26] <JamesPage> \o/
[10:15:34] <RoAkSoAx> awesome then
[10:15:39] <RoAkSoAx> next: hggdh & JamesPage to check sizing for minimal installation for QA purposes.
[10:16:00] <JamesPage> done - once we had fixed the preseed it was OK - cjwatson also made some minor amends to help
[10:16:10] * hggdh is slow
[10:16:12] <JamesPage> now well under 500MB :-)
[10:16:36] <Daviey> Jamie
[10:16:37] <cjwatson> oh good
[10:16:44] <RoAkSoAx> JamesPage: awesome!!
[10:17:06] <Daviey> JamesPage, where is that documented?
[10:17:46] <JamesPage> So the automated test case preseed is part of the ubuntu-server-iso-testing project
[10:18:01] <JamesPage> it was not aligned to the minimal server install preseed on the ISO
[10:18:23] <JamesPage> but other than in the preseeds in these areas its undocumented.
[10:18:42] <Daviey> does that damage the testing suitability?
[10:18:52] <hggdh> no
[10:19:09] <hggdh> the ISO test asks to check for < 500M
[10:19:21] <hggdh> it is now conforming
[10:19:27] <Daviey> ahh
[10:19:35] * Daviey happy
[10:20:11] <RoAkSoAx> Alright then. I guess that's all from previous meetings. Next topic is:
[10:20:19] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[10:20:36] <RoAkSoAx> Anyone anything to bring up here?
[10:21:02] <zul> yeah there is a bunch of bugs that have been targeted to release ill post a list to ubuntu-server ml today and ask people to help out
[10:21:03] <Daviey> euca 2.0.1 has even uploaded
[10:21:11] <zul> finally ;)
[10:21:16] <hggdh> \o/
[10:21:20] <RoAkSoAx> YaY!
[10:21:25] <smoser> Daviey, woot!
[10:21:32] * hggdh should not be that happy, it is more work to be done...
[10:21:33] <Daviey> heh
[10:21:44] <kirkland> cool
[10:21:47] * RoAkSoAx has finished an OCF RA for eucalyptus CLC. This will allow HA clusters to correctly and successfully monitor the CLC
[10:22:00] <Daviey> hggdh... grab me out of band
[10:22:09] <hggdh> Daviey: roj
[10:22:41] <RoAkSoAx> anything else?
[10:23:10] <zul> erm close your work items when they are done ;)
[10:23:39] <RoAkSoAx> alrighty then.
[10:23:40] <RoAkSoAx> moving on
[10:23:42] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] 10.04.2 ISO testing (zul)
[10:24:22] <RoAkSoAx> zul: you're up :)
[10:24:28] <zul> hi so 10.04.2 is going to be released and we need to be testing the ISO before release we have them configured on hudson but I would like to have some manual testing done (besides myself)
[10:24:48] <zul> any volunteers
[10:24:54] <kirkland> zul: i'll help you with that, if you like
[10:25:10] <RoAkSoAx> I can also help later today
[10:25:12] <JamesPage> zul: I'll pick up some as well
[10:25:20] <Daviey> the iso needs posting on the tracker
[10:25:28] <Daviey> candidate
[10:25:45] <zul> right Ill probably send out an email to ubuntu-server for wider testing as well
[10:26:07] <Daviey> it hasn't ye
[10:26:24] <RoAkSoAx> [ACTION] kirkland JamesPage RoAkSoax to help zul testing 10.04.2 ISOs
[10:26:31] <zul> right once i get more information ill pass that off
[10:26:34] <hggdh> who adjkust the ISO tracker for new releases available?
[10:26:58] <RoAkSoAx> [ACTION] zul to send e-mail to ubuntu-server ML requesting help for testing 10.04.2 ISOs
[10:27:36] <zul> ok thanks
[10:27:36] <kirkland> zul: what's the deadline on this?
[10:27:38] <kirkland> zul: today?
[10:27:55] <zul> thursday would be nice
[10:28:47] <kirkland> zul: cool, thanks, will do
[10:28:52] <RoAkSoAx> we have little bit of time then.
[10:29:02] <RoAkSoAx> zul: anything else that you'd like to mention?
[10:29:14] <zul> yes the ISO are already posted on the ISO tracker
[10:29:30] <Daviey> hmm
[10:29:41] <zul> 20110211.1
[10:30:29] <zul> thats it from me
[10:30:37] <RoAkSoAx> let's move on then
[10:30:50] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[10:30:57] <RoAkSoAx> Same as last week
[10:31:31] <RoAkSoAx> SCALE9x (spamps and kirkland) and UKUUG (ttx will be there)
[10:31:34] <RoAkSoAx> let's move on
[10:31:54] <RoAkSoAx> if noone has any other conference they are attending this month
[10:32:05] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[10:32:08] <RoAkSoAx> hggdh: you are up
[10:32:42] <hggdh> No news. I have been busy with the kernel SRUs, and will get busy with the new Euca as well
[10:33:03] <Daviey> hurrah
[10:33:22] <RoAkSoAx> ok let's move on then
[10:33:25] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[10:33:32] <RoAkSoAx> smb: your turn :)
[10:33:46] <smb> Mostly doing support escalation it feels
[10:34:04] <smb> I think we could resolve mostly bug 709414
[10:34:06] <ubottu> Bug 709414 on http://launchpad.net/bugs/709414 is private
[10:34:11] <smb> bah
[10:34:40] <smb> https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/709392
[10:34:42] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 709392 in nfs-utils (Ubuntu Lucid) "NFS client does not submit "nfs_file_sync" write requests when the file open call includes O_SYNC." [High,Triaged]
[10:35:16] <smb> So its the implementation that differs but not sure whether the doc is right or the implementation. Waiting for upstream there
[10:35:36] <smb> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux-ec2/+bug/717177
[10:35:44] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 717177 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu Lucid) "Import missing stable update changes into Lucid-ec2" [Medium,Fix committed]
[10:36:39] <smb> Completed that now and have asked people in bug 708920 to test. Unfortunately they keep on complaining that maverick seems to work while current lucid does, instead of testing the test kernel. :-P
[10:36:40] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 708920 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "Strange 'fork/clone' blocking behavior under high cpu usage on EC2" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/708920
[10:37:29] <smb> Then there is customer complaint about bug http://people.canonical.com/~smb/lp710319/linux-image-2.6.32-28-generic_2.6.32-28.55+lp710319v1_amd64.deb
[10:37:39] <smb> eh bug 671001
[10:37:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 671001 in linux (Ubuntu) "[lucid] system locks up (system_call_fastpath+0x16/0x1b)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/671001
[10:38:23] <smb> Which currently has not much useful information and needs more debugging (apart from the customer not wanting to use test kernels)
[10:38:29] <smb> That would be all..
[10:38:44] <RoAkSoAx> ok then. anyone have questions/concerns for smb ?
[10:39:20] <RoAkSoAx> I guess not. let's move on!
[10:39:22] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[10:39:43] <RoAkSoAx> sommer is still not around. So moving on...
[10:39:51] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[10:39:58] <RoAkSoAx> kim0: are you around?
[10:40:19] <kim0> well I am
[10:40:35] <RoAkSoAx> kim0: anything you'd like to report ?
[10:40:36] <kim0> I thought my section was removed however robbiew
[10:40:50] <robbiew> doh!
[10:40:55] <kim0> um not really
[10:41:04] <kim0> if there's any questions though .. let me know
[10:41:09] <robbiew> kim0: sorry...I thought that email went to the team...not just me
[10:41:18] <robbiew> yeah...no need to have a specific section for kim0
[10:41:29] <RoAkSoAx> awesome them. We'll update the wiki :0
[10:41:38] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[10:41:42] <robbiew> though we still should have a Ubuntu Community section ;)
[10:41:52] <kirkland> robbiew: +1
[10:42:14] <RoAkSoAx> wouldn't it be good to merge open discussion with Ubuntu Community?
[10:42:30] <robbiew> hmm
[10:42:44] <kirkland> RoAkSoAx: Open Discussion and Community are different, IMO
[10:42:54] <Daviey> +1
[10:43:16] <RoAkSoAx> (I used to wait for Open Discussion to discuss community stuff) But it's fine with me.
[10:43:31] <RoAkSoAx> [ACTION] Create a new meeting section for Ubuntu Community.
[10:44:23] <robbiew> So we are hiring :)
[10:44:55] <robbiew> https://tbe.taleo.net/NA3/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=159
[10:45:05] <robbiew> anyone interested...please apply!
[10:45:35] <RoAkSoAx> I think it would be good to announce it on twitter/facebook/etc
[10:45:57] <kim0> I can probably push it around
[10:46:03] <SpaMiPhone> o/
[10:46:49] <robbiew> spam away!
[10:47:00] <SpaMiPhone> At jury duty, did anybody need me for anything?
[10:47:21] <RoAkSoAx> lol
[10:48:02] <ttx> SpaMiPhone: guilty !
[10:48:14] * RoAkSoAx thanks god he doesn't have to do jury duty
[10:48:23] <SpaMiPhone> I like the idea of calling somebody on a spamiphone to spam them
[10:48:50] <RoAkSoAx> ok then so I guess we can put an end to the meeting
[10:48:57] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[10:49:19] <RoAkSoAx> Next meeting is: Tuesday, February 22 2011 16:00 UTC
[10:49:26] <RoAkSoAx> thank you all for coming
[10:49:42] <RoAkSoAx> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
