{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   09:05 Kamion     We should start anyway
   09:05 Kamion     BenC: you're up
   09:05 BenC       Dapper Kernel Status:
   09:05 BenC       - Bugs are continuing to be the major workload. Think I'm finally in a workflow to where I can
                    keep up with them.
                    - This week IBM initiated our server kernels into the ABAT (Automated Build And Test) system.
   09:05 BenC       They will be doing regular build, boot, stress, LTP runs of our -server, -server-bigiron,
                    -amd64-server and -powerpc64-smp (pseries) kernels.
   09:05 BenC       - Major updates to the kernel include: ipw2200 1.1.1 + patches, should make a lot of people
                    happy. ipw3945 will be included in the next upload.
   09:05 ogra       Kamion, i think i saw him, saying good morning in his TZ ...
   09:06 Kamion     BenC: LTP?
   09:06 BenC       Linux Test Project
   09:06 BenC       it's just a bonus, not something we really need
   09:06 Kamion     what sort of feedback do we expect to get from IBM?
   09:06 fabbione   mdz is at the dentist iirc
   === Bicchi [n=chatzill@pur23f5.fiu.edu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:06 Kamion     daily web report of results, something like that?
   09:06 BenC       they are sending us the entire log of the build, boot and run
   09:07 JaneW      dholbach: yes :P
   09:07 BenC       right
   09:07 sorush21   Seveas: how about adding Palestine too?
   09:07 sivang     BenC: will they test it on p5 eServer machines?
   09:07 Seveas     sorush21, there's a meeting - please don't interfere
   09:07 BenC       sivang: yeah, which is another good thing, since we don't have any tests of pSeries ppc64
   09:07 Kamion     ok, thanks Ben
   09:07 Kamion     dholbach:
   09:07 dholbach   icon-mission: basic workflow with art team implemented, needs announce, one feature in icon page
                    missing
   09:07 dholbach   this week (done): started catching up on bug triage (~2900 -> 1900 unread desktop bugs mails),
                    random fixes
   09:07 dholbach   this week (todo): more bug triage, bugsquad announce, bug day announce
   09:07 dholbach   next week: bug day, bug triage, bugsquad meeting (monday, 15 utc)
   === zenbum [n=zenbum@c-69-181-178-99.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:08 sivang     dholbach: it's all about bugs :)
   === Kamion hands dholbach the bug hat. Happy insect-squashing.
   09:09 dholbach   sivang: momentarily yes, new gnome in 3 weeks or something - i really hope the bug squad launch
                    will have success
   09:09 dholbach   there are a lot of community members working already
   09:09 Kamion     How's the bug day participation developing.
   09:09 Kamion     ?
   09:09 dholbach   but if we can lal make it more organized, that'd help
   09:09 sivang     dholbach: yes, it seems growing ever since it started.
   09:09 dholbach   more lists of stuff people can easily get working on
   09:10 dholbach   and maybe a workflow for NEW bugs against Ubuntu (unspecified)
   09:10 seb128     Kamion: that would be nice if we could have some other people than dholbach or me participating
                    from the distro team
   09:10 dholbach   people usually ask "where do I start?", if we can make that easier and think of clever ways
                    together that'd be nice
   09:10 infinity   I've shown up on a couple of bug days, but there isn't much activity during my timezone (nor much
                    excitement without dholbach around hugging everyone)
   09:10 dholbach   i'll send the announce for the bug squad meeting tomorrow
   09:11 Kamion     seb128: I agree. mdz's promised dedicated time for some people to spend on bug-fixing during the
                    six-week dapper extension, so some of that should be spent in bug days
   09:11 Kamion     (I think)
   === dholbach hugs infinity
   09:11 seb128     infinity: what I do is comment on some interesting bugs I triage on the chan, that gives some
                    "activity" to the chan
   09:11 seb128     and motivate some people
   09:11 Kamion     good idea
   09:11 seb128     Kamion: ok, nice
   09:11 pitti      apart from the db2 packaging, I'm solely on bug fixing anyway, so I might be able to help out a
                    bit, too
   09:11 Kamion     ok, let's keep moving
   09:11 Kamion     doko:
   09:11 doko       - toolchain-roadmap: java problems on hppa fixed, glibc could use a patch comparision (unstable
                    vs. dapper, hint, hint jbailey)
   09:11 doko       - toolchain-roadmap-ng: blocked
                    - openoffice.org: sprint notes at
   09:11 doko       https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2006-March/016568.html, packaging fixes, splitting
                    help pot files, new locale. outstanding: two crashes (atk is currently addressed upstream)
   09:11 doko       - other: working on bugs (OOo, assigned, java, started python), finally eclipse-pydev!, building
                    eclipse on sparc, tracking ttf-dejavu font changes, everything else I forgot
   09:12 Kamion     JaneW: can you make a note for doko and jbailey to have talked to each other about glibc patches
                    before next week?
   09:12 fabbione   doko: if it is something specific send it to me
   09:12 JaneW      Kamion: sure
   09:12 fabbione   it seems i am cool at signing glibc uploads :)
   09:13 doko       fabbione: no, but if you like to debug 45 ant build files ...
   09:13 fabbione   doko: kthxno
   === dieffel [n=dieffel@50A2FAEA.flatrate.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:13 Mithrandir ok, present
   09:13 Kamion     thanks Matthias
   09:13 Kamion     fabbione:
   09:13 fabbione   * server-candy: Missing/buggy: apache2 for "central snakeoil SSL setup" and kernel -server as
                    default from CD install. No other progresses.
*********** ubuntu-cluster: Waiting ocfs2-tools release for new userland to sync with the kernel that will
   09:13 fabbione   allow (finally) full desync later. Release is taking a bit longer. Today I received a SAN to use
                    for cluster testing. Somebody please send/donate a portable nuclear power plant and a set of ear
                    plugs.
*********** last week: Tons of X bug fixing/triage/headackes/larting/bashing/killing/... and a bit of sparc
   09:13 fabbione   bug fixing. Got around the first step of hw upgrade at the office. Added a SUN T2000 to the
                    machine collection.
   09:13 fabbione   * next week: complete hw upgrade at the office, bug fixing.
   09:13 fabbione   * NOTE: my LP Karma is over 43000!!!
   09:13 pitti      fabbione: 117000 here :)
   09:13 dholbach   fabbione: haha!
   09:14 ogra       lol
   09:14 dholbach   guys, ask seb128 how much he has!
   09:14 pitti      fabbione: *cockroach*!
   09:14 fabbione   pitti: ehhe
   09:14 ogra       fabbione, Karma:  82207
   09:14 ogra       ;P
   09:14 fabbione   next week i will take all you over :)
   09:14 sorush21   bugs are boaring
   09:14 Kamion     fabbione: I should be able to get to -server kernel installation sometime pre-beta, but remind me
                    if it looks like I've forgotten
   09:14 seb128     dholbach: young padawan :p
   === dholbach hugs seb128
   09:14 fabbione   Kamion: ok thanks, will do
   === seb128 hugs dholbach
   09:15 Kamion     fabbione: do you think we'll be in shape on X bugs by beta, or do we need more effort there?
   09:16 fabbione   Kamion: i did pass over 12% of the bugs in the last 2 days...
   09:16 fabbione   Kamion: help in triaging them will be useful
   09:16 fabbione   at least today we got rid of at least 40 ATI bugs,
   09:16 fabbione   but thanks to LP i can't batch processing them
   09:16 Kamion     I noticed; I'll see if that fixes my issues
   09:16 fabbione   so i am in the process of writing a small script to do that while somebody fixes LP
   09:16 Kamion     fabbione: you may be able to use the e-mail interface for that, not that I can ever remember how
                    to close bugs by e-mail myself
   09:16 Mithrandir seb and I are tag-teaming on the xkb stuff, that works quite well.
   09:17 fabbione   Kamion: it's not just closing..
   09:17 fabbione   Kamion: i need to add comments and ask feedback
   09:17 fabbione   Kamion: too many changes to be sure what is exactly fixed
   09:17 fabbione   Kamion: but we have full upstream support for that driver now.
   09:17 Kamion     echo comment | mail xxxxx@bugs.launchpad.net yyyyy@bugs.launchpad.net ... should work
   09:18 infinity   Yeah, comments are easy.  Don't need to sign those.
   09:18 infinity   Actions are a pain.
   09:18 fabbione   Kamion: yes.. but there is no easy way to query LP to know what is xxxxx and yyyyy
   09:18 Kamion     true
   09:18 Kamion     ok, thanks Fabio
   09:18 fabbione   and as infinity said.. actions are a pain
   09:18 Kamion     infinity: your turn
   09:18 fabbione   but i am discussing with LP guys alerayd
   09:18 infinity   last week buildd: had some productive sessions with cprov, where nearly a dozen irritating bugs
                    were nailed in the buildd code, brought hppa completely up-to-date, chased more build failures.
   09:18 infinity   last week distro: uploaded a mess of packages to resolve FTBFS issues, did some new upstream
                    merges, started hammering away at the initramfs-tools bug list.
                    next week buildd: keep an eye on buildability and installability of main, tweak some more bugs in
   09:19 infinity   the buildd slave code that I can do without cprov's assistance, and start filing bugs on failures
                    in universe.
                    next week distro: more bug triaging and fixing in initramfs-tools, and (hopefully) a UVF
   09:19 infinity   exception and mass rebuild for a new MySQL that (sadly) broke ABI upstream, plus whatever else I
                    have time for.
                    GENERAL NOTE: You may all have noticed a flurry of uploads from me in the last week to deal with
   09:19 infinity   build failures.  Some of you (hi mvo) may prefer if I push those fixes directly to you.  If I
                    step on toes, please let me know.
   09:19 pitti      fabbione: I increasingly like +packagebugs, I find it pretty helpful for bug housekeeping
   09:19 Kamion     thanks for the hppa work; hppa is back in anastacia now, and apparently has caused no issues
                    thereby
   09:19 infinity   Kamion: Excellent.
   09:19 fabbione   pitti: -> #u-d
   09:20 Kamion     main is more installable than it's been at any point in the last couple of months
   09:20 infinity   Kamion: And less out of date too.  Yay.
   09:20 Kamion     all of the issues in dapper_probs are either ASBA or NBS packages
   09:20 Kamion     (all-superseded-by-any, not-built-from-source)
   09:20 infinity   My goal is to keep it that way, since having it installable but half out of date isn't terribly
                    representative of what we want to ship.
   09:20 doko       mvo in vacation?
   09:21 Kamion     doko: scheduled hockey training
   09:21 dholbach   doko: <JaneW> so we are only missing mvo, who gave appologies as he has a scheduled team practise
                    at this time
   09:21 Kamion     iwj: your turn
   09:21 iwj        DefaultApplicationsFirefox: Reverted `you have chosen to open ...' before I went away.  No
                    complaints from that.  So I think we can call this goal complete.
                    Firefox maintenance: Thanks to mvo, seb128, doko, fabbione for stuff while I was away.  I'll do
   09:21 iwj        an upload tonight (urgh, it's still building, again) or tomorrow which should fix a few things
                    I'm aware of, provide -dbg package, etc.
   09:21 iwj        AutomatedTesting: A few discussions with Xen people but otherwise no real progress so far this
                    week.
   09:21 iwj        DeveloperDocumentation: no progress to report.
   09:21 iwj        Bugfixing: managed to get around to gs-gpl ia64 init.ps problem; very mysterious but now gone it
                    seems.  Will look at other gs bugs if I get a chance tomorrow.
   09:21 dholbach   Kamion: soccer :)
   09:21 JaneW      hi have mvo's report
                    Bugfixing: are we likely to get any movement on Malone ?  Strange email command parsing, bizarre
   09:21 iwj        formatting of bug messages on Malone web UI, inadequate search options, email header mangling,
                    etc.
   09:22 iwj        Email/lists: caught up (it was that or do three weeks in one go later).
   09:22 iwj        Email: I'm getting _lots_ of spam via my Ubuntu addresses.  Is Anything being Done ?
   09:22 iwj        Last week and next week: on holiday.
   === didier [n=didier@84.5.121.133] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:22 doko       iwj: but you're not having vacation tomorrow after the upload? ;-P
   09:22 iwj        I'm afraid I am.  But my last upload just before vacation was OK :-).
   09:22 Riddell    ubuntu addresses are unfiltered I thought
   09:22 fabbione   iwj: all the malone issues have been raised again today by me
   09:23 Kamion     iwj: was your visit to the Launchpad team last week? if so, how did that go?
   09:23 seb128     iwj: I didn't send a debdiff for my changes but they are documented to the changelog and
                    trivials, anyway let me now if you want the diff :)
   09:23 iwj        Kamion: No, that was going to be this week.  But no-one sent me any opinions so I decided not to
                    bother.
   09:23 Kamion     I see, oh dear
   09:24 iwj        It didn't seem sensible for me to go to London just so I could rant at LP people about what I
                    personally wanted.
   09:24 Kamion     nostra culpa
   09:24 iwj        seb128: Thanks, NP.  I have a daily snapshot of the archive so I can get debdiffs easily for the
                    past month ...
   === kwah [n=alexei@i103039.upc-i.chello.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Blippe [n=henryson@1-1-11-41a.f.sth.bostream.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:25 seb128     iwj: k
   09:25 JaneW      next?
                    on spam, I doubt anyone in this meeting can answer; you will need to talk to the admin team, if
   09:25 Kamion     you haven't already. I believe some central spam filtering of some kind has been done for those
                    who read their mail by IMAP from the datacentre, but I'm not sure about that.
   09:26 Kamion     I'm next, one second
   09:26 iwj        I'd be quite happy to slurp by IMAP if that would help :-).
   09:26 JaneW      tick
   09:26 JaneW      tock
                    I'm finding (with Soyuz) that picking the issues with highest priority and escalating them in
   09:26 Kamion     small chunks with descriptions of why they're blocking work is helpful, but you have to be rather
                    careful with that approach as it becomes ineffective if overused :-)
   09:27 Kamion     I understand that mdz's offer to harass on issues affecting the distro team if notified of bug
                    numbers etc. stands
   === ranf [n=ranf_@dslb-084-058-144-106.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:27 Kamion     anyhow, my turn
   09:27 Kamion     ue-gnome-ui: Daniel did the breadcrumbs rearrangement; yay.
   09:27 Kamion     ubuntu-express: We pretty much have internationalisation now, apart from a few glitchy strings.
                    The POT file is in Rosetta and is being translated.
   09:27 Kamion     ue-partitioning-tool: Various gparted bugs fixed, thanks to Daniel. Landed and integrated Fabio's
                    disk selector.
   09:27 Kamion     ubuntu-express-base-system: Keymap page done. Really just apt-setup to go here now.
                    misc: Looked into Intel Mac CD images and experimented a bit via mjg59; we think we need HFS+
                    support in mkisofs to get this working (it already has HFS support, so this should be a smallish
   09:27 Kamion     step). Worked with Carlos to get aggregated installer translations into Rosetta. Promoted most of
                    Xubuntu to main. Out of date on UVF exception requests; sorry, will try to catch up there. Almost
                    entirely up-to-date on other archi
   09:27 Kamion     next-week: Timezone->country->locale inferring. Finally sort out network configuration. Figure
                    out what's up with the bogus copying time.
   09:28 Mithrandir Kamion: keymap's not really applied to the installed system, though.
   09:28 Mithrandir it's just applied to the running system.
   09:28 Kamion     Mithrandir: true, I noticed that, but also looks trivial to do
   09:28 Kamion     doing it in the running system and having the UI was the hard bit
   09:28 iwj        Kamion: bugs> Right, thanks.
   09:28 Mithrandir Kamion: sure, just wanting to note it.  It's not hard.
   09:28 Kamion     thanks for that
   09:28 pitti      Kamion: what's the status of updated breezy CDs?
   === lucas [n=lucas@ubuntu/member/lucas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                    pitti: no real progress on that yet except that I have all the patches ready; I'll put aside some
   09:29 Kamion     time over the next week to assemble an image with all of that together and do some testing before
                    uploading anything
   === Klaidas [n=klaidas@unaffiliated/klaidas] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   09:29 Kamion     obviously I don't want to upload before being able to test the full assembly
   09:30 Kamion     so add that to my next-week, I guess
   09:30 pitti      ah, thanks
   09:30 ogra       oh, that means kubuntu and edubuntu as well i guess
   09:30 Kamion     ogra: I hadn't really thought about it, but I guess it does
   09:30 ogra       for edubuntu it makes most sense though ...
   === Lure [n=admin@clj46-234.dial-up.arnes.si] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:31 Kamion     I'll let you and Riddell know when we have something more concrete to look at. I don't expect
                    many (any) flavour-specific problems.
   09:31 Kamion     well, it's worth testing one of them to make sure preseeding still works
   09:31 ogra       i'd be happy if the ltsp fix from breezy-updates could go in
   09:32 Kamion     I've only been planning breezy + breezy-security; that is much safer
   09:32 Kamion     and more consistent with being in a USN
   09:32 Kamion     but I suppose we can audit the set of breezy-updates changes involved
   09:32 ogra       hmm, k ...
   09:32 Kamion     let's talk about that closer to the time
   09:32 ogra       yep
   09:32 Kamion     Keybuk:
                    udev - many changes to the way we do root filesystem mounting this week; the new stuff is rather
   09:32 Keybuk     more streamlined and means we can do mount-by-uuid (ProbeForRootFilesystem) on everything except
                    evms, LVM and md/RAID now.
                    network-manager - been going through NM 0.6 and it's new dependencies, using the community
   09:32 Keybuk     contributions where possible.  both dependencies are in the archive now, and approved for main by
                    pitti (not going to seed them as n-m will drag them in automatically).  should get n-m in before
                    I go away.
                    wpa_supplicant - have further changes I want to make to it, will involve syncing with Debian with
   09:32 Keybuk     a UVF exception.  makse it integrate properly with ifupdown with a process-per-interface and
                    config from /e/n/i rather than running as a daemon all the time.
                    other: finished off multi-arch report (at least, no further comments from mdz on it).  still not
   09:32 Keybuk     received reply to request to be added to ftp admin group.  had not much time for installer UI
                    yet, sorry Kamion, nm taking a bit longer to work out amongst other interruptions.
   09:33 Keybuk     (uh, wpa is in pitti's queue)
   09:33 Kamion     Keybuk: we aren't actually changing to mount-by-uuid for the dapper installer though, right?
   09:33 Kamion     (as discussed before)
   09:33 Keybuk     well, I kinda think we should now
   09:33 Keybuk     given dapper+1 is likely to ship with no ide subsystem :)
   09:33 Kamion     argh
   09:33 Keybuk     it'd make the transition rather smoother
   09:33 Keybuk     I guess it makes no real difference, we still have to transition for everyone who installed
                    pre-uuid
   09:34 Kamion     as I said in #ubuntu-devel, I think the transition should be in our face, otherwise we'll forget
                    about the issues for breezy upgraders
   09:34 Riddell    Keybuk: when do you go away?
   09:34 Mithrandir can we discuss that later?  I suspect it'll take more time to discuss through than we have in
                    this meeting?
   09:34 Kamion     Mithrandir: yep
   09:34 Mithrandir here, immediately after the meeting, if that's fine?
   09:34 Keybuk     Riddell: am away mon-weds next week
   09:35 Kamion     Keybuk: if you could mail me the RT number for the ftpadmin request, that would be good, I think
                    I only have a CC of the original mail
   09:35 Keybuk     Kamion: 4217
   09:35 Kamion     Mithrandir: if you don't mind doing it without me - otherwise tomorrow
   09:35 Kamion     Keybuk: thanks
   09:35 Mithrandir Kamion: tomorrow then.  I would at least like to have you in on it.
   09:35 Kamion     Kinnison:
                    gnome-power-manager (PowerManagementInterface): Been through ca. 100 bugmails learning the new
   09:35 Kinnison   state of the world post-lp-sprint. Begun the work to get 2.14.0 (plus some CVS patches) into the
                    archive.
   09:36 Kinnison   gparted: Worked through the installer-mode patch to ensure all dialogs are transient on the plug
                    if appropriate
                    metacity: Added a patch to enure transience on a non-toplevel works. This is a workaround in the
   09:36 Kinnison   sense that transience is meant to always be on a toplevel, but this is by far and away the
                    easiest place to add this code.
   09:36 Kinnison   vim: re-enabled the vim-ruby package as per bug 36050
   09:36 Kinnison   aspell-sl: Investigated report that the package is uninstallable. Could not reproduce, asked for
                    more info.
   09:36 Kinnison   launchpad: Fixed bug in binary upload acceptance, continued discussion with the sabdfl about
                    domination in personal package archives.
   09:36 Kinnison   espresso: replaced breadcrumbs with N-of-M in the GTK UI
   09:36 Kinnison   tomorrow: Assist in production rollout
                    otherwise: Continue to do gnome-power-manager work; we are now going to seriously diverge from
   09:36 Kinnison   upstream as upstream is on the road to 2.16. Continue to pick up espresso UI work for Colin.
                    Whatever else falls onto my plate
                    bugs: Currently I have around 50 bugs I am actively dealing with, most are g-p-m, some are acpid
   09:36 Kinnison   or acpi-support related. This is up on last time due to spending time on gparted and espresso for
                    colin and then having a week on the launchpad sprint. I currently have another 46 bug mails to
                    deal with in my LPBugs folder.
   09:36 Kamion     the gparted changes seem to be working well now, thanks, that was an awkward blocker
   09:36 Kinnison   [END]
   09:36 Kinnison   You're welcome
   09:36 Kinnison   (although if I ever see that codebase again, kittens will die)
   09:36 Riddell    Kinnison: N-of-M?
   09:37 Mithrandir Riddell: step X of Y
   09:37 Riddell    right
   09:37 Mithrandir changing the current breadcrumb path to just a "step X of Y"
   09:37 Kamion     Riddell: moving from the "Welcome > Language > Location > Keyboard > blah" across the top to a
                    better UI
   09:37 dholbach   Kinnison: the patch has to go upstream for dapper+1 :)
   09:37 Kamion     that doesn't look like you can click on it
   09:37 Kinnison   dholbach: merry christmas
   09:38 Kamion     Mithrandir:
                    misc: keyboard handling.  Korean keyboards almost work out of the box now (I know what the fix
   09:38 Mithrandir is), espresso keyboard handling mostly works (as in, works for me, and Colin fixed a few of my
                    bugs today).  XKB is getting there, I'm working a bit with upstream on getting us as good support
                    for languages such as Kurdish.  seb's also been excellent helping out here.
                    next week: I'm planning on releasing flight-5 on Wednesday, apart from that, espresso hacking, a
   09:38 Mithrandir bit depending on what Colin has, hopefully get popcon running, move towards bug triage mode
                    rather than development mode.
   09:38 Mithrandir blocked: no
   09:38 infinity   Mithrandir: Flight-6, I hope.
   09:39 Mithrandir also, I don't know if it's a good thing when you're getting around to being comfortable hacking
                    xkeyboard-config or not.
   09:39 Mithrandir uh, flight-6, obviously.
   09:39 Mithrandir infinity: thanks
   09:39 doko       Mithrandir, Kamion: what about tracking CD sizes?
   09:39 infinity   (Would be easier to just release Flight-5 again..)
   09:39 ogra       would be hard to roll back the archive to flight 5 :)
   09:39 Kamion     doko: what about it?
   09:39 Mithrandir doko: I follow it with a bit of attention, but not each day; why?
   09:39 doko       Kamion: how can I influence the size of daily builds?
   09:40 ogra       lool
   09:40 fabbione   doko: sending more |Viagra to little?
   09:40 pitti      replace ooo with ed? :-P
   09:40 Kamion     er - that's kind of a complicated question and I'm not sure where you're coming from, ->
########### ubuntu-devel perhaps
   09:40 ogra       doko, thats what i'm asking myself every day after waking up
   09:40 Mithrandir doko: strip down the size of OOo. :-)
   09:40 doko       Mithrandir: but it would be nice not to have *only* the flight CD's burnable
   09:40 Mithrandir doko: today's cds for instance are just fine
   09:41 doko       ok, let's move that to -devel
   09:41 JaneW      ready for mvo's report?
   09:41 Kamion     doko: the CD sizes have been officially increased to 700MB
   09:41 Mithrandir doko: so are yesterdays, the day before that and so on.
   09:41 Kamion     if you have media smaller than that, upgrade
   09:41 Kamion     this was an mdz/sabdfl? decision
   09:41 Kamion     JaneW: yes please
   09:41 JaneW      ogra: I hope that helps you (unless you work on that anyway...?)
   === olive [n=olive@o.o6.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:41 JaneW      Did:
   09:41 JaneW      - Friday: last day of the l10n sprint (very successful sprint IMHO)
   09:41 JaneW      - language-selector:
   09:41 JaneW      * qt port, split package, added fontconfig-voodoo, added locale
   09:41 JaneW      specific bits for ja_JP, ko_KR, zh_{CN,TW,HK,SG}
   09:41 JaneW      - catchup from the sprint for gnome-app-install, synaptic, apt,
   09:42 JaneW      python-apt, update-manager, software-properties, dist-upgrader
   09:42 JaneW      - added ttf-sil-{charis, dolous} to universe
   09:42 JaneW      - evalued dist-upgrade tool feedback (thing look good so far, but
   09:42 doko       Kamion: sorry, MiB or MB?
   09:42 Kamion     JaneW: Edubuntu has always been 700MB, sorry, makes no difference there
   09:42 JaneW      still some missing bits like a bug with debconf/gnome and missing
   09:42 JaneW      recovery on dpkg failures)
   09:42 JaneW      - gnome-app-install: improved the menu-data extractor, added some more
   09:42 ogra       JaneW, we use 700 since breezy
   09:42 JaneW      pseudo dekstop files
   09:42 JaneW      - made hwdb translatable (including the xml in it)
   09:42 Kamion     doko: roughly MiB, but I abhor that term
   09:42 JaneW      - bugtriage, mail backlog
   09:42 JaneW      Will do:
   09:42 JaneW      - wait for the auto-dist-upgrade test chroot setup
   09:42 JaneW      - get the upgrade tool into the archive (finally!)
   09:42 JaneW      - add the missing bits to the dist-upgrade tool
   09:42 JaneW      - more bugtriage, catchup
   09:42 JaneW      Kamion: that's what I thought *dang*
   09:43 Kamion     dist-upgrade tool backportage to breezy is blocked on a soyuz bug (filed)
   === LinuxJones [n=willy@hlfxns01bbh-142177210238.ns.aliant.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:43 Kamion     JaneW: can you make a note for mvo to talk to me about the debconf/gnome thing, if I don't
                    already have mail about it?
   09:44 ogra       my turn ?
   09:44 JaneW      Kamion: will do
   09:44 Kamion     right, usual mvo week of going over almost our entire high-level package management system then
                    :)
   09:44 Kamion     ogra: go
*********** general: reworked the edubuntu-artwork package completely to not depend on ubuntu-artwork
                    anymore (gains ~5MB on the edubuntu CD), wrote a bunch of ltsp howtos for edubuntu-docs, general
   09:44 ogra       poking on screensaver bugs, trying to find out why it sometimes ignores user input, fiddling with
                    the default visual to catch the GL flickering. no work on ltsp-client-builder.udeb yet. some hwdb
                    stuff for mark. fiddled with reding from /dev/vcs3 for ltsp-client
   09:44 ogra       -builder.
   09:44 ogra       next-week: finishing minor stuff in edubuntu-artwork, continuing the screensaver odd-ysee,
                    ltsp-client-builder.udeb work, flight 6 preparation.
   09:45 ogra       seb128, can i get the gdm edubuntu-artwork dependency fix before flight 6 ? (i'm fine with doing
                    it myself if thats ok for you)
   09:46 seb128     ogra: oh sure, will do tomorrow
   09:46 ogra       thanks :)
   09:46 seb128     np
   09:46 seb128     or after dinner
   09:46 ogra       thats fine as well ...
   09:47 ogra       just before flight 6 :)
   09:47 Kamion     thanks Oliver
   09:47 Kamion     pitti:
   09:47 pitti      reducing-duplication:
   09:47 pitti      * DONE: got rid of libgd, libmpeg3, gnutls11 (finally!!1!)
   09:47 pitti      * PLAN: discuss libsqlite0 demotion with infinity (php5-sqlite is the only package that needs to
                    be changed)
   09:47 pitti      * evaluated getting rid of gtk+1.2, but quite many packages still use it, so we have to live with
                    it, unless somebody spends a fair amount of time on that
   09:47 pitti      DB2 packaging:
   09:47 pitti      * DONE:
   09:47 pitti         - made myself familiar with the basic installation procedure
   09:47 pitti         - dissected the 370 MB tarball into logical chunks suitable for packages
   09:47 pitti         - built first round of debs out of it: installation works and produces an usable default
                    instance, so that you can immediately start working
   09:47 pitti      * TODO:
   09:47 pitti         - add proper package descriptions
   09:47 pitti         - maybe debconf'ify (for port configuration and whether to start DAS (administration server))
   09:47 pitti         - integrate DAS startup/shutdown
   09:47 pitti         - build a Java SDK deb from the bundled IBM JDK and integrate the GUI stuff to work OOTB
   09:48 pitti         - build l10n packages
   09:48 pitti      general stuff done this week: security updates, lots of bug triage and fixing, cleaned up
                    anastacia output, espresso testing
   09:48 pitti      plan for next week: bugs, bugs, bugs, and more DB2 packaging (depending on how much mdz wants me
                    to work on that)
   09:48 Kamion     pitti: where are the DB2 packages going to go?
   09:48 pitti      bug backlog: I slowly get it under control, but still a lot to catch up with
   09:48 pitti      Kamion: in our 'commercial' repo
   09:48 Kamion     thanks for the continued espresso testing BTW, it's been very valuable
   09:48 seb128     pitti: curious, what still use gtk1.2 (you mean to main right?)?
   09:48 pitti      but I didn't make any deeper inquiries about that
   09:48 sivang     pitti: yey :)
   09:48 pitti      Kamion: I hope I don't annoy you too much with the bugs :) but I seem to be a good test case :)
   09:48 Mithrandir seb128: xmms, evms
   09:49 doko       seb128: orbit1?
   09:49 pitti      also, smpeg
   09:49 iwj        `commercial' repo> ITYM `proprietary'.  HTH.
   09:49 Kamion     seb128: gtkglarea gutenprint imlib libdv libiodbc2 smpeg xmms
   09:49 Kamion     (build-deps)
   09:49 sivang     pitti: let me know when you work about bullet 4 of the DB2 items, I'd be interested to continue
                    helping and providing inpuit :)
   09:49 Kamion     pitti: no no, don't stop, they're good
   09:49 pitti      sivang: thanks
   === Kamion nods at iwj ...
   09:49 pitti      Kamion: (just kidding)
   09:49 Kamion     pitti: (IOW, "hurt me harder")
   09:49 seb128     Mithrandir: I thought Martin patched evms, and xmms ... just move it to universe
   09:50 pitti      seb128: also, gtkglarea, gutenprint, imlib, libdv, libiodbc2, smpeg
   09:50 seb128     anyway, not a topic for now
   09:50 Mithrandir seb128: indeed he did.
   09:50 Mithrandir seb128: I didn't know if he actually applied the patch he was pointed to or not.
   09:50 Kamion     right, time marches on
   09:50 Kamion     Riddell:
   09:50 pitti      Mithrandir: yes, I did
   09:50 Riddell    this week:
   09:50 Riddell    KDE 3.5.2 packaging and testing
   09:50 Riddell    also: CD size checking, reviewing knetworkmanager, checking new guidance release
   09:50 seb128     pitti: I had a look on gutenprint during distro sprint, seems to be a configure bog, there is
                    gtk1 and gtk2 code and it builds both or something like that
   09:50 Riddell    next week:
   09:50 Riddell    3.5.2 upload if approved, lots of kubuntu espresso, flight 6
   09:51 doko       Riddell: is OOo still in Kubuntu?
   09:51 infinity   Riddell: A big sloppy kiss if you make kdenetwork build.  Honest.
   09:51 Riddell    doko: yes
   09:51 Kamion     Riddell: glad to hear it on espresso, I'd really like to be getting merges more frequently than
                    once every three weeks; is there anyone else on the kubuntu team who might be able to help?
   09:51 Kamion     because keeping it working is slowing me down in places
   09:51 doko       Riddell: please could you help/have a look at the OOo/KDE specific bugs?
   09:52 Riddell    infinity: on my todo list for tonight or tomorrow morning
   09:52 Riddell    Kamion: I'm trying to presuade the spanish guys to not re-write it and help with the current
                    version
   09:52 Riddell    Kamion: and with 3.5.2 out of the way I expect merges to happen much more often
   09:53 Kamion     ok, thanks
   09:53 Kamion     if it helps, just tell the Spanish people that I won't merge a total rewrite
   09:53 Riddell    yep
   09:53 Kamion     seb128:
                    this week: bug day (some people active on IRC participated, which is nice but we lacked
   09:53 seb128     participation of some distro team people though), some GNOMish updated, replied to comments and
                    triaged a pile of desktop bug, forwarded a bunch of them upstream, debugged some of them, patches
                    a bunch of packages (desktop issues fixing)
   09:53 seb128     next week: bug triage, forwarding, squashing, patching
   09:55 dholbach   seb128 has Karma: 437709
   09:55 dholbach   just for the record :)
   09:55 seb128     dholbach: launchpad is on crac if you want my opinion :p
   09:55 Mithrandir seb is teh man.
   09:55 dholbach   seb128: man, you deserve it!
   09:55 doko       dholbach: come on, how much did you collect?
   09:55 pitti      'An integer overflow was detected in the LP Karma module... seb128 coudl exploit it by...'
   09:55 fabbione   pitti: LOL
   09:56 dholbach   doko: 170403 not that much :)
   09:56 pitti      (I hope they are using 64 bit for seb)
   09:56 doko       we should measure MegaKarma
   === seb128 runs away from pitti
   09:56 pitti      seb128: no, no, let's pentest :)
   09:56 Kinnison   the karma events are being rebalanced, expect the numbers to shift dramatically over time until
                    we settle
   09:56 Keybuk     how come everyone has more karma than me? :'(
   09:56 seb128     hann
   09:57 infinity   Keybuk: I probably have less, but that's only because I haven't committed my "buildd actions"
                    karma patches yet. ;)
   09:57 ogra       Keybuk, we know how to cheat LP, you dont :P
   09:57 dholbach   bah!
   09:57 Kinnison   Keybuk: s'cos you're "harmless"
   09:57 Kamion     sivang: anything you want to add?
   09:57 sivang     If I may add, HomeUserBackup is very close to finishing now (approx 2-3 days away if my gf let me
                    work during the weekend)
   09:58 sivang     this will include backing up to CD,
   09:58 sivang     CDs
   09:58 sivang     and restoring
   09:58 Kamion     sivang: upload early, upload often :-)
   09:58 Kamion     (to universe)
   09:58 sivang     Kamion: yes, I need someone responsive to review and sponser the upload :)
   09:58 Kamion     any volunteers?
   09:58 sivang     I'd like to to go under review of someone from distro team for that matter
   09:58 sivang     since it's going to be new software and etc
   09:58 Kamion     if anyone wants to volunteer for that, it would be useful; please talk to sivang, probably on
########### ubuntu-devel
   09:59 Kamion     ok, any other business in the remaining minute or so?
   09:59 infinity   Kamion: Are you playing mdz right now?
   09:59 sivang     infinity: he sure is :)
   09:59 Kamion     infinity: for the duration of this meeting, I guess
   09:59 Keybuk     Kamion: could you quickly review my e-mail to you and give me a "no" or "maybe" ? :p
   09:59 infinity   Kamion: If so, feel the urge to tell me it's a-okay to crash for the next 8 hours, since I just
                    worked for the last 24? :)
   09:59 Kamion     Keybuk: sure, like I say I'm behind on UVF requests, will get to yours and fabbione's this
                    evening
   09:59 Keybuk     infinity: sleep when dead
   10:00 Kamion     infinity: I think you'd better :P
   10:00 Keybuk     Kamion: ah, I thought for some reason you were out this evening
   10:00 fabbione   Kamion: no hurry.. tomorrow is fine
   10:00 Kinnison   infinity: as an addendum to keybuk's comment, please don't die
   10:00 Keybuk     not until release, anyway
   10:00 pitti      Keybuk: after release is before the release :)
   10:00 infinity   How Zen...
   10:01 sivang     heh
   10:01 Kamion     yes, I assume everyone's seen the dapper delay announcement
   10:01 ogra       bah, pitti is on soccer already ...
   === ogra blames germany
   10:01 Kamion     if not, why are you not on ubuntu-announce? :-)
   10:01 Keybuk     Kamion: no?  we're delaying dapper?
   10:01 sivang     ogra: LOL
   10:01 pitti      ogra: hm?
   10:01 infinity   Kamion: What's "dapper"?
   10:01 ogra       pitti, "nach dem spiel is vor dem spiel ?"
   10:01 Kamion     infinity: the thing you have our permission to die after
   10:02 pitti      ogra: I couldn't care less about football
   10:02 dholbach   ok guys, I need to run
   10:02 Kamion     ok, time's more than up
   10:02 infinity   Kamion: Check.
   10:02 Kamion     adjourned
 
</pre>
