{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon Nov 30th 2015 16:31 UTC
* '''End''': 16:59 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Tyler Hicks (tyhicks)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Stefan Bader (smb) provided a debdiff for precise for xen
** Andreas Cadhalpun provided a debdiff for wily for ffmpeg
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** catching up from last week's holiday
** Snappy sprint prep
** embargoed item
** finish up policy work on touch and snappy
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: community
** gnutls26 update
** investigating an NSS issue in xenial
*** requires getting uvt to work properly in xenial
** possibly sudo updates to fix the clock issue in stable releases
** sbeattie
** weekly role: bug triage
** figuring out where to disable -fPIE for kernel builds
** openjdk-6 update
** tyhicks
** weekly role: cve triage
** send off findings from mapplauncherd review
*** including the code changes and profile generation bits for confining the
      generic booster processes
** Snappy sprint prep
** Review snapd socket access checks
** !AppArmor policy loads inside of a user namespace
** jjohansen
** kernel work on !AppArmor stacking/namespaces and related items
** followup on test kernels containing fix for bug 1446906
** work with kernel team regarding an !AppArmor related bug that is causing test failures
*** potentially a test issue and not a bug
** 4.4 !AppArmor rebase
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** libmicrohttpd MIR
** DPDK MIR
** !AppArmor patch review
** chriscoulson
** finish camera support in the phone browser
*** need libhybris changes to be reviewed
** unprivileged namespace sandbox support (LP: #1447345)
** Oxide merge proposal reviews
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-11-30-16.31.moin.txt
