{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

06:02	Kamion	ok, ready to start?
06:02	gnomefreak	NickGarvey: i dont think it started yet
06:02	ubuntu_demon	dholbach: I prefer my privacy. There's 140.000 users on the forums. Most are very nice but some aren't (I am in no personal issues or conflicts but I'm just a bit paranoid)
06:02	Kamion	this is a meeting for consideration of membership candidates only
06:02	Kamion	so that we can catch up a bit
06:02	simira	Kamion: what about the other cases?
06:02	Kamion	other cases?
06:03	elmo	issues
06:03	Kamion	either we'll do them at the end, or we'll defer them to next time
06:03	simira	ok
06:03	Kamion	depending on how time goes
06:03	Kamion	I get thrown out of this meeting room in two hours, AFAIK
06:03	simira	'nough chitchat, then
06:03	dholbach	ubuntu_demon: that's ok with me - i was just relaying :)
06:03	Kamion	#
06:03	Kamion	RolandoBlanco whitesoft
06:03	ubuntu_demon	dholbach: ;)
06:04	Kamion	oh, we should check for quorum ...
06:04	Kamion	mako: here?
06:04	Kamion	sabdfl won't be making it
=== GnuKemist [n=omaciel@ubuntu/member/gnukemist] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:05	mako	yes
=== dholbach_ [n=daniel@p54A82627.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== mako catches up
06:05	mako	alright
=== DaSkreech [n=david@port0002-abm-adsl.cwjamaica.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:06	mako	membership candidates
=== GnuKemist is OgMaciel
=== soumyadip [n=soumyadi@59.93.200.8] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:06	mako	rolando is not here it seems?
06:06	Kamion	apparently not
06:06	mako	Kirjanov Denis
=== Gun_Smoke [n=daryl@c-68-85-72-195.hsd1.fl.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:07	Seveas	(Matthew Revell is already approved)
06:07	mako	Seveas: yes :)
06:08	mako	also, for Kirjanov Denis's future reference
06:08	mako	the wiki page is a bit thin and the launchpad activity for the last month is not giving me a whole lot more evidence
06:08	mako	so i think there's still some documentation work left to go
06:08	Kamion	I agree
06:09	Kamion	also the "solved bugs" item is in fact a support ticket
=== mako nods
06:09	mako	alright, i'll find some way to note that or communicate it to Kirjanov after the meeting
06:09	Kamion	and the specification is just a few lines with no fleshing out in the form of a wiki page or anything
06:09	mako	alright.. moving on.. Carthik Sharma
06:10	carthik	mako, Hi.
06:10	mako	carthik: go ahead
06:10	carthik	Is it okay if I paste three lines by way of introduction?
06:10	carthik	I (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CarthikSharma ) have triaged around 950 bugs (http://launchpad.net/people/carthik ), filed around 60, and help with the ubuntu-qa and desktop-bugs teams
06:10	mako	carthik: please do
06:10	carthik	I (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CarthikSharma ) have triaged around 950 bugs (http://launchpad.net/people/carthik ), filed around 60, and help with the ubuntu-qa and desktop-bugs teams
06:10	carthik	oops
06:10	DShepherd	the meeting has started?
06:10	carthik	I write the Ubuntu Blog (http://ubuntu.wordpress.com ), and on the Fridge; and was the technical reviewer of Ubuntu Linux for Non Geeks, a No Starch Press publication.
=== gnomefreak is +1 for carthik (im kind of in and out)
06:10	carthik	I designed the http://ubuntu-in.org site, and am the treasurer of the LUG at UCF (http://lugatucf.org ). I try to help others on IRC whenever I can.
06:10	Kamion	Matthew East asked me to say of carthik:
06:10	Kamion	I've also been really impressed since Carthik joined the Fridge team, he is already a key contributor and a major part of the team with plenty of ideas and articles too. His blog shows that he will be central to the new Fridge team.
06:10	Kamion	</end>
=== Seveas starts cheerleading for carthik -- malone loves sending me mail on his behalf
06:11	carthik	Thanks Kamion
06:11	sfllaw	carthik has been an essential and wonderful part of the BugSquad.
06:11	Kamion	FWIW carthik has been very helpful on ubiquity bugs
06:11	mako	carthik: did you do tech for the whole book?
06:11	Kamion	+1 from me
06:11	carthik	mako, yes
06:11	dholbach	carthik does incredible work for the BugSquad!
06:11	mako	carthik: stamina, cool! :)
06:12	gnomefreak	he is a very great help with bugs :)
06:12	jono	ntu :)
06:12	dholbach	https://launchpad.net/people/carthik/+karma say a lot :)
06:12	carthik	I did get paid though, so that is not really "community work", mako :)
06:12	jono	oops
06:12	jono	:)
06:12	mako	jono: i was about to ask?
06:12	jono	heh
06:12	mako	carthik: still can be an important contribution worth considering
06:13	mako	anyway, loads of good stuff
06:13	seb128	carthik does a really good job on desktop bugs as well
06:13	mako	carthik: see you around for quite a while, thrilled to have you as a member :)
06:13	mako	carthik: where are you local to now
06:14	carthik	Thank you, mako.
06:14	carthik	Orlando, FL, mako
=== gora [n=gora@125.23.62.109] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:14	mako	carthik: saw your timezone, thought you might be near me :)
06:14	jono	carthik, cool I am there in late sept :)
06:14	carthik	If anyone wants to see mickey, I might have a couch available :)
06:15	DaSkreech	raphink: Some update (before the infamous Xbork) Borked my X
06:15	DaSkreech	I have no errors however X will not start
06:15	mako	i'm sure disneyworld is exactly why jono is going ;)
06:15	carthik	jono, cool - we could do something related at UCF (univ of central florida) or just have fun. Let me know if you need local help/cheap tickets etc
06:15	elmo	+1 from me too
06:15	jono	mako, :P
06:15	jono	carthik, cool :)
06:15	Kamion	DaSkreech: please use another channel
06:15	mako	carthik: welcome!
06:15	profoX`	DaSkreech: #ubuntu for support
06:15	mako	Andreas Lloyd
06:16	DaSkreech	Whoops ;)
06:16	dholbach	carthik: ROCK ON! :)
06:16	Seveas	carthik, gongratulations!
06:16	DaSkreech	Sorry finger slip
06:16	mako	lloydinho: ?
06:16	lloydinho	hi all!
06:16	Kamion	... oh, that would be the person just there to my right
06:16	Kamion	hmm
06:16	lloydinho	:-)
06:16	Kamion	naturally I am morally obliged to say no ;-)
06:16	Spec	carthik: welcome
06:16	simira	Kamion: be nice.
06:16	Kamion	(kidding, obviously)
06:16	lloydinho	I've used Ubuntu since november 2004, it is the only Linux distribution I've used. Using Ubuntu inspired me to do my master's thesis on the Ubuntu community.
06:16	carthik	Thanks mako, Kamion, elmo, seb128, dholbach, sfllaw, gnomefreak (woot!)
06:16	DaSkreech	apologies all
=== simira gives thumbs up for lloydinho
06:16	gnomefreak	congrats carthik
06:17	lloydinho	I am an anthropology graduate student in my final year at the University of Copenhagen, and this project has led me to a lot of other initiatives in the Ubuntu community which can be seen on my wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndreasLloyd
06:17	GnuKemist	congrats carthik
06:17	jono	carthik, /msg me if you can
06:17	lloydinho	oh, and congrats to carthik .. :-)
06:17	licio	carthik, welcome :)
06:17	raphink	welcome carthik
06:17	seb128	carthik: congra
06:17	seb128	carthik: congrat
06:18	ubuntu_demon	lloydinho: Was very enthousiastic on UDS. I spoke to him about his fieldwork and survey. IMHO he is a nice contribution to the Ubuntu community.
06:18	mako	other testimonials?
06:18	mako	someone from the doc team maybe?
06:18	lloydinho	hey, thanks ubuntu_demon.
06:18	ubuntu_demon	lloydinho: np :)
06:19	lloydinho	I forgot to bring any cheerleaders.
06:19	Kamion	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu is a nice piece of work
=== simira cheers for lloydinho
06:19	mako	i was JUST going to say that
06:19	mako	lloydinho: so, i assume you've seen or have worked from the participate page
06:19	mako	lloydinho: on the ubuntu website
06:20	nixternal	heh
06:20	mako	lloydinho: this seems like that page on steroids.. or perhaps what that should page should be
06:20	lloydinho	mako, I have. That was the inspiration for this ContributeDoc
06:20	mako	which begs the question.... :)
06:20	Kamion	access control on /participate is probably a mite too tight
06:20	mako	i point people to the participate page probably 5-10 times a week
=== j_ack [n=rudi@p508DA3E2.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:20	mako	but we should have that page point there
06:21	Kamion	(not that it can be different really due to how www. works)
06:21	nixternal	CC:  let me just quickly state that Lloyd is incredibly important to documentation right now, and mdke could definitely tell you more about that. Lloyd has created a lot of cool stuff for us, including the new contribute documentation...he is a great assett to the Ubuntu community w/o a doubt!
06:21	mako	or something
06:21	Kamion	a link seems pretty reasonable, perhaps if ContributeToUbuntu moved to help.u.c
06:21	lloydinho	wow. thanks nixternal .
06:21	mako	Kamion: right, that's what i'm thinking
06:21	nixternal	lets not forget /mystory either
06:21	Kamion	mm, what's the story on mystory?
06:21	Kamion	first I'd heard of that, wondering who's behind that address
06:21	mako	lloydinho: it might be nice to think about what we can do what the participate page
06:21	lloydinho	it's one of the marketing projects..
06:22	nixternal	plus he has his cool specs from the Paris Summit as well with anthro that was cool
06:22	mako	lloydinho: maybe it should get smaller with just links to various sections in the new page
06:22	lloydinho	mako, we have discussed various ways of doing the participate page.
06:22	mako	lloydinho: cool :)
=== guilhermee [n=guilherm@20151079020.user.veloxzone.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:22	lloydinho	Working with Corey, I also redid the HelpingUbuntu wiki page
06:23	Kamion	anyway; +1 for contribute page, testimonial from docteam, and it seems like a good thing to bring anthropologists into the communities they're studying on general principles :)
06:23	mako	lloydinho: cool, i'd love to see something happen with it.. let me know and i'm happy to help you with www
06:23	lloydinho	We couldn't really decide whether it would be best to have a short or extended version.
=== mako nods to Kamion
06:23	mako	i'm happy to have you on board and i'm thrilled that you haven't done the whole detached outsider thing
06:23	lloydinho	Kamion, :-)
06:23	lloydinho	mako, that would have been boring :-)
06:23	Kamion	HelpingUbuntu seems substantially duplicated from ContributeToUbuntu
06:23	elmo	ack
06:23	GnuKemist	congrats lloydinho
06:23	nixternal	sweet!!!   CONGRATULATIONS!!!   lloydinho ;)
06:24	mako	of course, you find that making meaningful contributions makes it alot easier to have the community open up to you :)
06:24	carthik	congrats lloydinho
06:24	lloydinho	mako, that's what I've found, certainly.
06:24	Kamion	although it wasn't lloydinho's, I like the idea of EasyWaysToHelpUbuntu
06:24	Seveas	lloydinho, word!
06:24	AndreNoel	congrats lloydinho
06:24	lloydinho	thanks all!
06:24	Kamion	oh, who's driving launchpad today?
06:24	ubuntu_demon	Congrats lloydinho
06:24	mako	moving on.. Vidya Ayer
06:24	Kamion	oh yeah, mdke sent a testimonial for lloydinho too
06:24	svaksha	Hi All
06:24	AlexRocha	lloydinho Congrats! :D
06:24	svaksha	I am Vidya Ayer from India. My wiki page is, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Svaksha
06:25	Kamion	for the record:
06:25	Kamion	"Has contributed extremely well to the documentation team with ideas and also quite a lot of action. Again he is great to work with because of a really positive and constructive attitude. I've also seen him contribute positively to the marketing team, again providing concrete and constructive contributions."
=== soumyadip [n=soumyadi@59.93.200.8] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Run]
06:25	elmo	I'll do launchpad
06:25	gnomefreak	Kamion: i dont think LP has updated in the past few days (not sure if its everything on LP)
=== svaksha waits for go ahead
06:25	Kamion	mdke says of svaksha:
06:25	CypherBIOS	lloydinho: congrats... and thanks for your great work on documentation
06:25	Kamion	"very good to work with, have come across her contributions to ubuntu-women and translation. She has recently joined the fridge team and will be an asset for us."
06:25	Kamion	gnomefreak: I mean membership approvals
06:25	gnomefreak	oh
06:25	mako	svaksha: go ahead
06:25	svaksha	Currently admin 2 lists at Linuxchix, co-wrote a Sanskrit locale with Christian Perrier (Debian) and editor at DMOZ. Having used all releases since Warty, I lurked awhile in Q1'05 and later joined the Bugsquad [https://launchpad.net/people/svaksha/+karma] , Ubuntu-Women, Marketing, Fridge, and translation teams.
06:25	svaksha	Ubuntu-Women is doing well with many women (and men) contributing in the community, upstream and relevant Foss arenas. Have contributed articles to Fridge nd UWN. Plan to keep the Fridge cool and well stocked with community news, events, advocacy, articles, and other sound bytes flowing in, and think it would also be advantageous to synchronise news with grass-roots marketing in the Ubuntu community.
06:26	svaksha	Time-permitting, hope to pitch in with tasks useful to the Motu's - packaging, testing, other technical details about Ubuntu, its relation with Debian and how they work in tandem. Have never missed an opportunity to advocate and spread the Ubuntu cheer (CD's), Ubuntu books, and my Ubuntu converts' list is aplenty with most folks giving positive feedback (almost always :-)) during follow-ups.  /End.
06:26	jono	right, I have a meeting about the joys of CRM, later all
06:26	svaksha	thanks mdke
06:26	Kamion	svaksha's wiki page looks pretty solid to me, but I need to nip out for a moment before chasing up references; BRB
06:27	simira	lloydinho: congrats
06:27	elmo	lloydinho: you don't appear to be trying to be in ubuntu-members in launchpad?
06:28	nixternal	heh, must have been caught up in the Ubuntu excitement ;)
06:29	mako	svaksha: what is your current involvement with the IN loco?
06:30	svaksha	not involved currently
06:30	mako	is there a particular reason?
06:30	svaksha	currently , time constraints
06:30	lloydinho	elmo, I just added myself this moment
06:30	mako	i'm just kind of curious because it sounds like you had a hand setting it up
06:31	Kamion	back
06:31	mako	lloydinho: approved
06:31	svaksha	yes, but its being run equally well by others
=== mako nods to svaksha
06:31	mako	that's a good reason :)
06:32	licio	:)
06:33	elmo	ack for svaksha from me
06:33	mako	alright, i'm happy with svaksha as well
06:33	svaksha	thanks mako, elmo
=== gora [n=gora@125.23.62.109] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Au]
=== nixternal pokes svaksha, tell them about the fridge ;)
06:34	Kamion	yup, been following up references, and +1 from me - looks pretty impressive
06:34	mako	is Alberto Milone around?
06:34	tseliot	here I am
06:34	svaksha	i did nixternal
06:34	carthik	congrats svaksha
06:34	tseliot	can I begin?
06:34	mako	tseliot: ah, you're alberto milone
06:34	AndreNoel	congrats svaksha
06:34	mako	tseliot: yes, go ahead
06:34	GnuKemist	congrats svaksha
06:34	svaksha	thanks all
06:34	tseliot	My name is Alberto Milone and here is my profile on Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/people/albertomilone
06:34	tseliot	My profile on the Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Tseliot
06:34	tseliot	My Experience and Involvement with Ubuntu
06:34	tseliot	I have used Ubuntu since April 2005 when I tried it, loved it, left Windows and never looked back. One of the reasons for which I like Ubuntu is its forum, where I learnt most of the things that I know (thanks to all the people who were so kind to help me). I decided to pay back all the people who helped me by helping new (unexperienced) users, which all my guides
06:35	tseliot	are thought for. As a matter of fact I try explaining as many things as possible when I write my guides so that anyone can follow them, even when dealing with topics such as the recompilation of the kernel.
06:35	tseliot	Then I joined the Archival team on ubuntuforums.org and therefore worked on the documentation on the UDSF.
06:35	tseliot	I have recently become a Moderator on the Ubuntu Forums (ubuntuforums.org)
06:35	tseliot	Here is my profile on ubuntuforums.org:
06:35	tseliot	http://www.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=19388
06:35	tseliot	I am particularly interested in writing guides and providing support for the installation of Nvidia's proprietary drivers and for the resolution of problems with the Xserver in general (but not only).
06:35	mako	svaksha: did you try to joint he members team?
06:35	tseliot	A partial list of the guides I wrote can be found here:
06:35	tseliot	http://www.albertomilone.eu/europeo/guides.html
06:35	tseliot	OR in my profile on the Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Tseliot
06:36	ubuntu_demon	tseliot has been very valuable to the forum staff. He's also helping a lot of people with video issues.
06:36	tseliot	My Projects:
06:36	tseliot	1) My Envy script
06:36	tseliot	Users very often need the latest Nvidia driver (which is usually available as an installer and not as a deb package). Being aware of all the lenght (and difficulty) of the procedures which installing the Nvidia driver from the installer implies I decided to make the process a bit easier for beginners (in addition to my guide about it).
06:36	svaksha	mako: no , will apply tomorrow
06:36	tseliot	I started a new project, which I named Envy (the Italian for Envy is "invidia"). It is a script (written in Python and packaged as a .deb file) which automates the installation of the latest Nvidia proprietary driver on Ubuntu (both Breezy and Dapper are supported). It installs all the packages needed to compile the driver and removes the restricted modules. It also offers the possibility to automatically configure the Xserve
06:36	tseliot	You can find it on my homepage:
06:36	tseliot	http://www.albertomilone.eu/europeo/nvidia_scripts1.html
06:36	tseliot	and on launchpad:
06:36	tseliot	https://launchpad.net/projects/envy
=== svaksha is not well today
06:36	tseliot	2) Promoting Edubuntu at the University of Lecce (Italy)
06:36	tseliot	Another project of mine is that of promoting Edubuntu at the University of Lecce. According to my plans part of my thesis (for my 2nd level degree) will be about Edubuntu and the study (and teaching) of foreign languages.
06:36	tseliot	My Suggestions for improving Ubuntu:
06:36	tseliot	I have proposed the following spec for Edgy Eft:
06:36	tseliot	On Launchpad:
06:36	tseliot	https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xserver-failover
06:36	tseliot	A detailed explanation on the Wiki:
06:36	tseliot	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XserverFailover
06:36	tseliot	I have also asked the opinion of the members of Ubuntuforums.org:
06:36	tseliot	http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=201128
06:37	matthew5	and he was incredibly helpful today with confused users trying to figure out what happened when they updated X and it broke...tseliot posted a great and simple way to downgrade until the fix began populating te repos
06:37	mako	tseliot: alright, that's a bit more than a three line introduction
=== nixternal has never chatted with tseliot, and really don't know him...but his "howtos" in the ubuntu forums are excellent to say the least! i use them quite a bit...also applied some of his howto's to various wiki docs as well concerning binary drivers
06:37	mako	:)
06:37	matthew5	on the forums
06:37	GnuKemist	svaksha sorry to hear that... congrats and get some rest ;)
06:37	tseliot	Sorry mako
06:37	tseliot	it's my character
06:37	tseliot	;)
06:37	Kamion	tseliot: from the sound of things, envy will break on any system upgrade, if it relies on having the restricted modules removed
06:37	ubuntu_demon	+1 for tseliot
06:38	svaksha	:)
06:38	tseliot	Kamion: yes
06:38	Kamion	we are normally happy to incorporate new versions of the nvidia module into dapper-updates if asked
06:38	Kamion	infinity is the contact person for that
06:38	tseliot	really?
06:38	tseliot	I would be glad to help
06:38	tseliot	I didn't know that drivers could be updated
06:39	tseliot	where can I find infinity?
06:39	tseliot	on launchpad?
06:39	Kamion	it depends on the changes, but if they're targeted bug fixes, then it's possible
06:39	Kamion	adconrad on launchpad, infinity ere on IRC
06:39	Kamion	here
06:39	tseliot	well, the new drivers add the support for new cards
06:39	Seveas	tseliot, we should join forces -- I do a similar thing for ati
=== svaksha [n=svaksha@unaffiliated/svaksha] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
06:40	tseliot	sure
06:40	frodon	i confirm that tseliot is one the great support provider on ubuntuforums, he helps a lot of users each day and contributes to the UDSF project
06:40	tseliot	I was thinking of plugging in an ATI card too tonight
06:40	frodon	he's one of the great guys of the forum
=== mr3vil [n=mr-evil@p50815F3B.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:40	tseliot	I'm really interested in this project
06:41	Kamion	talk to rodarvus about the xserver-failover stuff
06:41	mako	tseliot: there are other ways of providing updated drivers in packages that will allow for upgrades
=== bit_doidao [n=duda@unaffiliated/bitdoidao/x-000001] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:41	Kamion	we already offer the safe-mode thing in gfxboot for the live CD, but it's not ideal
06:41	rodarvus	I just noticed the spec and subscribed to it
06:41	tseliot	mako:I didn't know that
06:41	rodarvus	tseliot, Kamion: thanks
06:41	Kamion	having X do it itself would be better - we didn't have time before dapper though
06:41	tseliot	Kamion: but the failover should work on the installed ubuntu as well
06:42	Kamion	tseliot: indeed - as I say doing it in the bootloader is obviously not ideal
06:42	ubuntu_demon	tseliot helps lots of users on the forums and he's really valuable to the forum staff. So +1 ;)
06:42	mako	tseliot: even if folks have to build their own drivers, they can build them as package
06:42	tseliot	mako: this is true for ati drivers
06:43	tseliot	mako: is it true for the nvidia driver as well?
06:43	tseliot	and without recompiling all the restricted modules?
06:43	Seveas	(maybe we're diverging a bit too far from the purpose of this meeting...)
06:44	tseliot	and without removing nvidia kernel common which would cause a driver mismatch?
06:44	mako	tseliot: yes, we, or others, can talk afterward
06:44	tseliot	Sorry Seveas
06:44	tseliot	Ok
06:44	mako	tseliot: basically, while i suspect that there are better ways of doing some of those particular things
06:45	mako	i'm happy to approve you just on support and forums activity alone
06:45	tseliot	Thanks :-D
06:45	ubuntu_demon	mako : great
06:45	mako	i think i've seen you post in basically every thread i've ever gone to in the forums :)
06:45	elmo	yeah, ack
06:45	tseliot	mako: LOL
06:45	GnuKemist	congrats tseliot
=== nalioth [i=nalioth@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.nalioth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:46	Kamion	with regard to the kernel compilation guide, /usr/src/linux is explicitly disrecommended by Linus these days - I'd suggest just using the user's home directory
06:46	tseliot	thanks
=== Huahua [n=hua_@122.0.231.48] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:46	AndreNoel	congrats tseliot
06:46	tseliot	Kamion: I know we should use fakeroot
06:46	tseliot	I'll change that
06:46	tseliot	AndreNoel: thanks
06:46	Kamion	anyway, yeah, I'm with mako on this - I do think you should be more forthright about contacting developers with problems rather than working around them sometimes, but what you've done seems pretty good
06:46	Kamion	so I'm happy for membership
06:47	elmo	excuse me, I have to go and be human pack horse, brb
06:47	Kamion	well, as well as working around them, depending :)
06:47	tseliot	Kamion: I'd be glad to work with them
06:47	frodon	congrats tseliot
06:47	tseliot	instead of working around them
06:47	tseliot	frodon: thanks :-)
06:47	matthew5	congrats, tseliot
06:47	ubuntu_demon	tseliot: congrats :)
06:47	tseliot	matthew5: thanks and good luck
06:48	mako	tseliot: yeah, the general takeaway is that you should probably contact the maintainer responsible for every issue you've written scripts to work around because in some situations you'll find that there's an easier solution and in others you'll find that it's a bug or something that can be fixed in the package itself :)
06:48	tseliot	ubuntu_demon: thanks.
06:48	tseliot	mako: ok, I'll do that
06:48	mako	AndreNoel: you are up
06:48	tseliot	I just didn't dare bothering them
06:48	AndreNoel	alright
06:48	AndreNoel	My name is Andre Noel, born and living in Brazil. Graduated from Maringa State University in Computer Science in 2005. Married since 2005.
06:48	AndreNoel	Been involved with Open Source since 2002, and more especifically with the Brazilian community since May 2006, thanks to incentive from OgMaciel. Started as a translator for the Brazilian Team and recently being appointed as one of the administrators of the team.
06:49	AndreNoel	I'm one of the administrators of Ubuntu Brazilian Portuguese Translators Team and I wanna help this team to grow in quantity an quality. To help in the use (and reuse) of rosetta, and in news improvements to it.
06:49	Kamion	tseliot: we normally don't mind :-)
06:49	mako	tseliot: the same people will get bug reports when upgrades fail :)
06:49	tseliot	ok, got it ;)
06:49	mako	tseliot: easier to deal with the issue up front :)
06:50	mako	AndreNoel: why AndreNoel3?
06:50	AndreNoel	i don't know
06:50	AndreNoel	it was auto
06:50	AndreNoel	it's my login on wiki
06:51	Kamion	the auto-import-everybody-we've-heard-of thing did that sometimes
=== mako nods
06:51	CypherBIOS	mako: it's the default sugestion of Launchpad for existent wiki
06:51	CypherBIOS	I wold like say some words about AndreNoel;
06:52	CypherBIOS	may I?
06:52	CypherBIOS	He is a active member of Brazilian Community, one of majoritaries translators that is working very hard to make the Ubuntu 100% tranlated for Brazilian Portuguese, and making a excelent job.
06:53	AndreNoel	tks CypherBIOS!
06:53	CypherBIOS	Also, he works in the Brazilian Wiki <http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org>, making some usefull pages and Faqs, with the Brazilian Documentation Team.
06:53	GnuKemist	mako elmo Kamion AndreNoel has become a very important part for the administration of the brazilian team as well as the community as a whole.  He is genuinely interested in bringing Ubuntu to the brazilian masses with a 100% translated system and has become extremelly active advocating Linux in his community.  I completely stand behind his candidacy.
06:54	AndreNoel	tks GnuKemist
06:54	CypherBIOS	Your work (AndreNoel) extends to the mailling lists, where he help and guide much users and new translators
06:54	GnuKemist	AndreNoel you deserve it my friend
06:55	AlexRocha	I agree with what CypherBIOS and GnuKemist said
06:55	sfair	as a member of Brasiliam Documentation Team +1 for opinions about AndreNoel
06:56	mako	ok.. lots of translations
06:56	AndreNoel	tks AlexRocha and sfair
06:56	mako	i'm happy with membership based on translations testimonials
06:56	CypherBIOS	AndreNoel: somebody forgot something? AndreNoel is a autor of Brazilian Ubuntu Planet
06:56	AndreNoel	hehe
06:56	GnuKemist	;)
06:56	AndreNoel	recently listed on topcontributors
06:57	AndreNoel	https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+topcontributors
06:57	GnuKemist	mako he goes beyond just performing translations, but also spends a lot of his time sharing his knowledge with volunteers
06:57	CypherBIOS	yep, one of Top Contribuitors in Launchpad too
06:57	mako	alright: Kamion, elmo ?
06:58	Kamion	seems to be well above the level we normally require from translators
06:58	Kamion	so +1 from me
06:58	AndreNoel	:)
06:58	Kamion	(and obviously coordination types are always welcome)
06:58	Kamion	thanks for your attested work there
06:58	AndreNoel	thank you
06:58	GnuKemist	Kamion and he is really good at coordinating
06:59	bit_doidao	mako and all, i confirm the good job of AndreNoel :)
06:59	AndreNoel	tks bit
06:59	mako	#
06:59	mako	LorenzoVillani Arbiter
06:59	mako	you're up
06:59	Arbiter	it's me
06:59	Arbiter	Hi i'm Lorenzo Villani and I use ubuntu since version 5.04.
06:59	Arbiter	After trying Ubuntu I immediately loved it. Awesome community, awesome technical choices and clear development-model.
06:59	Arbiter	I'm now helping by doing some packaging stuff, translation work and I help new users to get into the Ubuntu (and Linux) world.
06:59	Arbiter	I'm also spreading the work about Ubuntu (and Linux in general) here in Florence.
06:59	Arbiter	Packages i've made: colorscheme, agave, kdocker - working: libgimp-cil, debian-servicemenu, attach-to-email-servicemenu
06:59	Arbiter	Translation work is listed at: https://launchpad.net/people/arbiter/+translations
06:59	Arbiter	My future plans are to become firstly an Ubuntu Member (that's why I'm here ;-) ), then a MOTU and (why not?) a Core-Dev :)
06:59	Arbiter	...and improve kubuntu and make the PackageCandidates list shorter and become part of the Italian LoCo Team (currently waiting for approvation) :)
07:00	mako	Arbiter: how long have you been working on packages?
07:00	GnuKemist	mako, what is the outcome for AndreNoel?
07:01	Seveas	GnuKemist, elmo isn't back yet so still 'pending'
07:01	GnuKemist	Seveas gotcha
07:01	Arbiter	two months as far as i remember
07:01	mako	GnuKemist: waiting for elmo?
07:01	elmo	sorry
07:01	mako	Arbiter: that's the bare minimum of what i'd like to see for demonstration of a sustained contribution
07:02	mako	Arbiter: for membership of course
07:02	elmo	ack from me for AndreNoel
07:02	GnuKemist	AndreNoel congrats!!!
07:02	Arbiter	mako: my translation work is more than my packaging work
07:02	AndreNoel	tks elmo
07:02	Gloubiboulga	Arbiter has done a good job on packages, and I really appreciate the fact that he wants to reduce the PackageCandidates page :)
07:02	mako	right
07:02	AlexRocha	AndreNoel Congrats! :D
07:02	AndreNoel	tks friends
07:02	tseliot	Congrats
07:02	Arbiter	i've started making packages a short time ago...
07:02	CypherBIOS	AndreNoel: congrats my friend!
=== GnuKemist back to work
07:03	bit_doidao	AndreNoel, very well! congrats!
07:04	Riddell	Arbiter: what plans do you have to improve kubuntu?
=== raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== GnuKemist [n=omaciel@ubuntu/member/gnukemist] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== sfair [n=sfair@dma03.feg.unesp.br] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Aumentando]
07:04	bit_doidao	CypherBIOS, good work on AptOnCd! im just leraning python with it :)
07:04	Arbiter	Riddell: at first: there are a lots of packages in Kubuntu Candidates
07:04	Arbiter	(for universe)
=== Gun_Smoke [n=daryl@c-68-85-72-195.hsd1.fl.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:05	Arbiter	i want to make them and get them into universe as soon as possible
07:05	mako	i'm not sure my personal threshold has been reached by the information linked to from the wiki alone
07:05	mako	are there testimonials here for Arbiter
07:05	Riddell	Arbiter: cool, give us a ping on #kubuntu-devel if there's stuff to be reviewed
07:05	Arbiter	my plan is to become a kubuntu-member too
07:06	mako	Arbiter: membership doesn't need to proceed major contributions
07:06	mako	Arbiter: and in fact, shouldn't
07:06	mako	it's the other way around
07:07	mako	Arbiter: unless there are people we know here who will give testimonials, i think we should pass this week
07:07	Arbiter	Gloubiboulga?
=== Kamion accepts kdocker into universe
07:08	mako	Kamion: :)
=== bit_doidao is preparing some works and tutorials for candidate for membership. on the right time. :)
07:08	Kamion	I guess one of your links just became out of date ;)
07:08	Arbiter	Kamion: heh :D
07:09	mako	Arbiter: want to wait until for hte next meeting or so? we've go to wrap up
07:09	Gloubiboulga	Arbiter, yep, I wrote a few words already :)
07:09	mako	i set this as a 1h meeting :)
07:09	Arbiter	mako: Gloubiboulga is my only testimonial
07:09	mako	which is now into its 68th meetiinute :)
07:09	Arbiter	Hobbsee has gone to bed... so...
07:09	Kamion	I don't really have a strong opinion - I think Arbiter's making pretty good progress
=== mako nods to Kamion
07:10	mako	in fairness to others, i'd really like to see a couple testimonials from people who have worked with him, reviewed packages
07:11	Gloubiboulga	mako, I did
07:11	mako	Gloubiboulga: are you the only one?
=== j_ack [n=rudi@p508DA3E2.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:11	Gloubiboulga	mako, the only one present here I guess
07:11	Arbiter	others were bddebian and sistpoty iirc
07:11	Arbiter	plus Hobbsee
=== AndreNoe1 [n=noel@201.22.95.1.static.gvt.net.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:12	mako	Gloubiboulga: i'm not ignoring you, i appreciate your comments :)
07:13	mako	Arbiter: even emailed testimonials would be good
07:13	Gloubiboulga	mako, his work on packages was really good, and het get 3 packages uploaded quite quickly
07:13	simira	bddebian is online and active
=== Lure [n=lure@ubuntu/member/lure] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== bddebian [n=bdefrees@mail.ottens.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:14	Gloubiboulga	hello bddebian :)
07:14	Arbiter	:)
07:14	bddebian	Howdy folks
07:16	mako	bddebian: hi, we're talking about Arbiter's application for membership
07:16	mako	i'd really like to touch on the other candidates
07:16	mako	i am already 15 minutes for another appointment and want to give everyone a chance
07:17	mako	can we move on for a second?
07:17	mako	matthew5: can you go quickly?
07:17	Arbiter	no problem for me
07:17	matthew5	I'll try
07:17	matthew5	Here's a short bil
07:17	matthew5	bio
07:17	bddebian	Well he has been active on REVU
07:17	mako	Arbiter: cool, thanks for being patient
07:17	matthew5	I am a writer by trade, currently working on a self-funded research project in Morocco looking at Moroccan Arabic humor and how it reveals culture. I have a degree from the University of Arizona in Education and Social Sciences and have never worked in a tech-related field. I have been a teacher, a language school administrator, and done a ton of other stuff as well. I'm 36, married with 3 kids. My Ubuntu experien
07:17	matthew5	ce began in April 2005 when I bought a linux magazine with a Hoary cd in it. I set up a dual boot with WinXP and found myself using Ubuntu about 95% of the time within a couple of weeks.
07:17	matthew5	I had lots of questions at the beginning and got help for all of them in the Ubuntu Forums. As time passed I noticed others asking similar questions or questions about things I had just figured out so I started answering them as a way to give back to the community. I was asked to be a part of the forum staff, and while I was honored I turned down the offer the first time as I didn't feel like I had learned enough
07:17	matthew5	to be really helpful. Time passed and I continued to try to help when and where I could feeling like I had received so much at no cost to myself I should give something back. I was asked again to join the staff and was convinced. That was in March 2006. The rest is in my wiki and launchpad pages.
07:18	matthew5	sorry, more than 3 lines...
07:18	tseliot	Matthew is a very active member and a very diplomatic moderator of ubuntuforums.org. He manages to keep the tension low and avoid flamewars (a great gift indeed). He is a real peace maker ;)
07:19	matthew5	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Matthew5
07:19	ubuntu_demon	matthew5: has been really valuable to the forum staff. He also helps a lot of users on the forums. +1
07:19	matthew5	https://launchpad.net/people/matthelmke
07:19	Kamion	matthew5: in dapper you shouldn't need vga=771 any more, we hope
07:19	mako	any other testimonials for matthew5?
07:19	matthew5	I don't. I should update that
07:19	Kamion	(since we changed the default console resolution)
07:20	matthew5	I did for hoary and breezy, thoug
07:20	matthew5	though
=== givre [n=flo@APuteaux-152-1-58-155.w82-120.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:20	tseliot	frodon?
07:20	Kamion	so the non-forums contributions are a bit light, but being invited to join staff clearly indicates you were being useful on the forums :)
07:21	matthew5	I freely admit the non-forums contribs are few
07:21	matthew5	I hope I've been a bit helpful on the forums, though
07:21	matthew5	I try
07:21	tseliot	Kamion: he is an invaluable help on the forum
=== AndreNoe1 is now known as AndreNoel
07:22	ubuntu_demon	I agree with tseliot
07:22	Kamion	matthew5: yep, not a criticism, just a comment
07:22	matthew5	Kamion, that's how I took it :)
=== dudus [n=dudus@200.246.22.208] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:23	mako	the forums contributions are impressive
07:23	mako	you've got my support for membershi
07:23	matthew5	thank you
07:23	elmo	yeah, ack
07:23	ubuntu_demon	I gotta go
07:23	ubuntu_demon	sorry guys
07:24	matthew5	elmo, thanks
07:24	mako	alright then :)
07:24	tseliot	ubuntu_demon: bye
07:24	bddebian	mako: +1 for Arbiter from me.  He has several packages sitting on review.  I unfortunately have only had a chance to review a couple so far as we are behind on reviewing but seem to be well done.
07:25	mako	NealBussett ?
07:25	Kamion	+1 for matthew5, after following up on forums contributions
07:25	matthew5	Kamion, thank you
07:25	mako	alright
07:25	mako	Ahmad Muammar ''y3dips''?
07:27	mako	alright then
07:27	mako	that's the list
07:27	mako	thanks folks for showing up..
07:27	mako	Arbiter: still around?
07:27	Arbiter	yeah
07:27	Arbiter	reading
07:27	Arbiter	:)
07:28	Arbiter	thanks bddebian && Gloubiboulga :)
=== tseliot [n=tseliot@host206-249.pool877.interbusiness.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Kopete]
07:29	mako	Arbiter: personally, i'd feel better if we waited until the next meeting..
07:29	Arbiter	no problem :)
07:29	mako	Arbiter: you've done lots of good work though, and i don't feel too strongly
07:30	mako	Arbiter: so if there's a rush, we can do it now
07:30	mako	Arbiter: cool then, lets put you first for the next meeting :)
07:30	mako	Arbiter: and see if we can scare up a couple more testimonials
07:30	Arbiter	heh :D
07:30	mako	Arbiter: cool, see you next time :)
07:30	mako	elmo, Kamion: and you two as well
07:31	Seveas	mako, when will 'next time' be?
07:31	Arbiter	see you too mako :)
07:31	mako	two weeks from today?
07:31	elmo	two weeks from today - time to be determined
07:31	Seveas	can I suggest doing it a bit early
=== tseliot [n=tseliot@host206-249.pool877.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:31	mako	earlier in the day?
07:31	Seveas	yes
07:31	mako	that's fine.. but if we go too much ealier, i won't be able to make it
07:31	mako	like more than 4-5h
07:31	Seveas	the past few meetings have been unfair to nz/au
=== josevitor [n=josevito@201.56.112.168] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:31	mako	we can also go much later
07:31	elmo	sabdfl won't be around
07:32	elmo	so it'll need to be us 3 again
07:32	Arbiter	can the CC be at the same hour of this one? :)
07:32	mako	if sabdfl doesn't konw he can be there, we should plan it so that i can be there
07:32	elmo	but anytime (up until about 1am UTC is fine by me)
07:32	gnomefreak	what about 1800 utc?
07:32	elmo	(and from about 5am UTC)
07:32	Seveas	@now melbourne
07:32	Ubugtu	Current time in Australia/Melbourne: August 23 2006, 03:32:53 - Current meeting: Community Council
07:32	mako	Arbiter: we could even do 20UTC
07:32	mako	or 21UTC
=== tseliot [n=tseliot@host206-249.pool877.interbusiness.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Kopete]
07:33	Kamion	ditto elmo although I'd find 5am UTC pretty unpleasant
07:33	Seveas	late utc would be early AU, might work as well
07:33	Kamion	1am is fine as long as it doesn't go on too long
07:33	mako	ok. lets do 21UTC then
07:33	gnomefreak	im trying to think when the kubuntu meetings are i know they are right around 4pm est
=== nalioth [i=nalioth@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.nalioth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:33	mako	or even 22UTC
07:33	Seveas	22UTC would be 8am
07:33	Seveas	might be better than 21 ;)
07:33	mako	that sounds reasonable
07:34	Kamion	ok
07:34	mako	ok, 22UTC two weeks from today
=== Seveas will edit the wikipage
=== Gun_Smoke [n=daryl@c-68-85-72-195.hsd1.fl.comcast.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
07:34	mako	Seveas: going to remove approved candidates?
07:34	gnomefreak	the 5th at 22utc?
07:34	Seveas	move to 'approved' ;)
07:34	elmo	oh, talking of candidates
07:34	Riddell	gnomefreak: 21UTC usually
07:34	elmo	we should probably trim the LP list
07:35	elmo	and just remove anyone who's been on there > 2 months
07:35	elmo	does that sound reasonable?
07:35	Seveas	it does to me
07:35	gnomefreak	Riddell: yeah and hobbsee complains its too early ;) lol
07:35	Kamion	yes
07:35	Kamion	they can always reapply
07:36	elmo	ok
07:37	Arbiter	mako: i don't need to paste my intro next time, right? :D
07:38	gnomefreak	why not get the people to back you by emailing one of the CC
07:39	Kamion	I'd prefer that just be a fallback option in case people can't make it to the meeting - it gets hard to track otherwise
07:39	Kamion	though I don't mind it if people can't make it
07:40	mako	gnomefreak: they can email community-council
07:40	mako	then it goes to everyone

</pre>
