{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week Lucid Lynx ===
=== Mon 3 May ===
* 15.00 UTC <nowiki>[[Intro|Introduction]]</nowiki> - Jono Bacon 
* 16.00 UTC <nowiki>[[UbuntuOne|Introduction to Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> - Stuart Langridge
* 17.00 UTC <nowiki>[[SocialFromStart|Getting Started with Social from the Start]]</nowiki> - Ken Van Dine 
* 18.00 UTC <nowiki>[[Byobu|Byobu]]</nowiki> - DustinKirkland 
* 19.00 UTC <nowiki>[[FindHelp|Finding Help in Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Mike Basinger 
=== Tue 4 May ===
* 15.00 UTC <nowiki>[[WineQA|Wine Q&A]]</nowiki> - Scott Richie 
* 16.00 UTC <nowiki>[[MarketLoCo|Marketing Your LoCoTeam]]</nowiki> - Leandro Gomez  
* 17.00 UTC <nowiki>[[PacthReview|Patch Review Team]]</nowiki> - Nigel Babu
* 18.00 UTC <nowiki>[[PackageAdopt|Adopting a Package and being an upstream contact]]</nowiki> - Jorge Castro and Sense Hofstede 
* 19.00 UTC <nowiki>[[DesktopQA|Desktop Q+A]]</nowiki> - Rick Spencer 
=== Wed 5 May ===
* 15.00 UTC <nowiki>[[AskMark|Ask Mark]]</nowiki> - Mark Shuttleworth 
* 16.00 UTC <nowiki>[[Translations|Ubuntu Translations]]</nowiki> - David Planella 
* 17.00 UTC <nowiki>[[Edubuntu|Edubuntu]]</nowiki> - Stephane Graber 
* 18.00 UTC <nowiki>[[EnergizeCommunity|Energizing an Ubuntu Community]]</nowiki> - Randall Ross 
* 19.00 UTC <nowiki>[[ProactiveSecurity|Proactive Security Demonstration]]</nowiki> - Kees Cook 
=== Thu 6 May ===
* 15.00 UTC <nowiki>[[KernelQA|Kernel Q+A]]</nowiki> - Andy Whitcroft  
* 16.00 UTC <nowiki>[[ServerQA|Server Q+A]]</nowiki> - Server Team 
* 17.00 UTC <nowiki>[[TriageBugs|Working on Bug Reports (aka Triage Class)]]</nowiki> - Pedro Villavicencio 
* 18.00 UTC <nowiki>[[UbuntuWomen|Ubuntu Women]]</nowiki> - Amber Graner 
* 19.00 UTC <nowiki>[[LoCoCouncilQA|LoCo Council Q&A]]</nowiki> - Laura Czajkowski 
=== Fri 7 May ===
* 15.00 UTC <nowiki>[[Development1|Ubuntu Development I]]</nowiki> - Daniel Holbach
* 16.00 UTC <nowiki>[[Development2|Ubuntu Development II]]</nowiki> - Daniel Holbach
* 17.00 UTC <nowiki>[[Gaming|Gaming on Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Ben Crissford
* 18.00 UTC <nowiki>[[UDSRemoteParticipation|How to participate remotely at an Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki> - Jorge Castro
* 19.00 UTC <nowiki>[[Feedback|Feedback and Conclusion]]</nowiki> - Jorge Castro
