{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** None
  
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* coreycb to take <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1347567|bug 1347567]]</nowiki>

===== U Development =====

* DebianImportFreeze on the 7th and FeatureFreeze on the 21st
* coreycb agreed to take on bug 1347567
* Everyone reminded to keep BP up to date

 
===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====

* no updates

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) =====

* psivaa reported that utopic installation jobs are broken at the moment due to a parted bug and that the Foundations team is working on a fix.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) =====

* smb reported that several bugs were reported by EC2 users.

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

* Linuxcon on the 20th and TL sprint going on during this week.

===== Open Discussion =====

* lutostag reminded everyone that voting for ODS sessions are about to close, so people should vote ASAP. Ubuntu related sessions: http://insights.ubuntu.com/2014/07/31/voting-begins-for-openstack-summit-sessions-in-paris/

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Aug 12th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. Chaired by gaughen

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:00 <matsubara> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug  5 16:00:32 2014 UTC.  The chair is matsubara. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <matsubara> Hello, who's here today?

 16:00 <coreycb> o/

 16:00 <beisner> o/

 16:01 <serue> o/

 16:01 <rbasak> o/

 16:01 <rbasak> Though partly over in the TB meeting for Juju questions, if they have any for the SRU exception request.

 16:02 <rcj> o/

 16:02 <lutostag> o/

 16:02 <matsubara> Let's give some time to people to join in. Apologies from smoser, gaughen, jamespage who are sprinting in Germany. gnuoy and rharper who are out on holidays

 16:03 <matsubara> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <gaughen> o/

 16:03 <gaughen> yo yo, matsubara I'm here!

 16:03 <smb> \o

 16:03 <matsubara> Hi gaughen, welcome!

 16:03 <matsubara> guten tag/abend!

 16:03 <gaughen> bon jour!

 16:03 <gaughen> oh wait, umm... guten tag

 16:03 <smb> abend works

 16:04 <smb> Its about beer time too... errm

 16:04 <gaughen> smb, ah they can tell I'm american from a mile away. they always just say hello

 16:04 <matsubara> No action points from the previous meeting

 16:04 <matsubara> #topic Utopic Development

 16:04 <matsubara> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule

 16:04 <matsubara> So, important dates to keep in mind. DebianImportFreeze in 2 days (the 7th) and FeatureFreeze in Aug 21st

 16:05 <matsubara> so everyone is welcome to land those merge request from the Friday sprints rbasak has been running

 16:05 <matsubara> requests even

 16:05 <matsubara> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:05 <matsubara> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:06 <matsubara> There's one critical bug in the list which is assigned to kirkland

 16:07 <matsubara> also bug 1347567, filed by jamespage with no assignee yet.

 16:07 <ubottu> bug 1347567 in openstack-trove (Ubuntu Utopic) "trove unit tests disabled" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1347567

 16:07 <jamespage> matsubara, I think that might be quite and easy fix

 16:07 <jamespage> but I've not had time to look at it yet

 16:07 <matsubara> Should we have takers for high bugs during this meeting?

 16:08 <jamespage> matsubara, not essential

 16:08 <coreycb> jamespage, do the tests need to be disabled for that one?

 16:08 <matsubara> coreycb, beisner: want to take a stab at it since you guys are directly involved with openstack stuff?

 16:08 <jamespage> coreycb, they are right now - we just ignore the result

 16:09 <coreycb> matsubara, I'll take that one

 16:09 <jamespage> but I've tried to raise bugs for when we have todo that

 16:09 <matsubara> thanks coreycb!

 16:09 <matsubara> #action coreycb to take on bug 1347567

 16:09 * meetingology coreycb to take on bug 1347567

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1347567 in openstack-trove (Ubuntu Utopic) "trove unit tests disabled" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1347567

 16:09 <matsubara> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:10 <matsubara> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html

 16:10 <matsubara> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server

 16:10 <matsubara> Usual reminder to keep your BP up to date.

 16:11 <matsubara> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:11 <matsubara> caribou is not around, so let's move on

 16:11 <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:11 <jamespage> that coreycb

 16:11 <jamespage> ta coreycb - sorry long day

 16:12 <psivaa> matsubara: not much of updates from us except

 16:12 <matsubara> psivaa, Anything from the QA team?

 16:12 <coreycb> jamespage, np :)

 16:12 <psivaa> the utopic installation jobs are broken at the moment due to a parted job if in case you'd like to know

 16:12 <psivaa> s/job/bug

 16:13 <matsubara> psivaa, thanks for the update. Any action from server team members to have that fixed? Or is the QA team taking care of it?

 16:13 <psivaa> matsubara: the foundations team is fixing it. thanks :)

 16:13 <matsubara> Great. Thank you psivaa!

 16:13 <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)

 16:13 <smb> Nothing too exiting. Somehow users of EC2 seem to have collaborated and last week saw several unrelated bugs being reported there. I have nothing otherwise. Any questions for me?

 16:14 <matsubara> smb, nothing from me. Thanks for the update!

 16:15 <matsubara> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:17 <matsubara> Calendar says Linuxcon in the 20th. Not sure who in the server team is attending, but that's about it. There's the TL sprint currently going which should be bring lots of news next week when gaughen, jamespage and smoser are back home.

 16:17 <matsubara> #topic Open Discussion

 16:17 <matsubara> Anything else?

 16:18 <matsubara> 5

 16:18 <matsubara> 4

 16:18 <matsubara> 3

 16:18 <matsubara> 2

 16:18 <matsubara> 1

 16:18 <lutostag> voting for ODS sessions is about to close, vote for the ones you want to see

 16:18 <matsubara> oh, good reminder lutostag!

 16:19 <matsubara> here's a handy linkg for the sessions: http://insights.ubuntu.com/2014/07/31/voting-begins-for-openstack-summit-sessions-in-paris/

 16:19 <matsubara> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:20 <matsubara> Same bat-time, bat-channel but not the same bat-chair. That will be gaughen

 16:20 * gaughen high fives matsubara

 16:20 <matsubara> Thank you all for attending.

 16:20 <matsubara> #endmeeting
</pre>
