{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=02&day=06&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Feb 6th 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* micahg
* tyhicks
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** FeatureFreeze is coming in a less than two weeks (February 16th). Please try to finish any non-bugfix work items that are tied to the release by this date. Please talk to mdeslaur (and optionally me)  soon if there are issues meeting this deadline. This is particularly true for essential and high priority items.
** Thanks
** Leo Iannacone (l3on) provided debdiffs for natty and oneiric for usbmuxd (LP: #919435)
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Review of any previous action items
** [ACTION] sbeattie to follow up on qrt bugs from QA team
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** lots of meetings
** pulled into projects like secure boot and partner
** archive admin mostly caught up
** MIR audits
** finish up some work items
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: triager
** pending updates
** uploaded python-httplib2 to do proper ssl certificate validation. Needs wider testing
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** potential icedtea update for firefox 10 regression
** ca-certificates merge
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: community
** pending updates
** two ecryptfs bugs to triage/fix
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** get packages for !AppArmor LXC bug and mount rules out for testing. Once testing is completed, get patches together for a pull request.
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-06-18.12.moin.txt
