{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=11&day=03&year=2014&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Nov 3rd 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* chrisccoulson

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks Gianfranco Costamagna (LocutusOfBorg) for providing debdiffs for precise and trusty for drupal7 (LP: #1381969). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: community
** !AppArmor
*** finish up some apparmor-easyprof-ubuntu updates for vivid
*** finish up click-apparmor 0.3 upload
** adjust UCT for derivative branches
** click-reviewers-tools updates
** pending updates
** embargoed issues
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates (ruby and then move down the list)
** sbeattie
** pie-by-default-on-amd64 compiler patch for updated gcc-4.9
** go through !AppArmor utils bugs to prepare handoff to mdeslaur
** various other !AppArmor as prioritized by !AppArmor team syncup
** tyhicks
** AppArmor
*** update apparmor policy cache setup code and the binary policy loading code into a standalone form for moving to libapparmor (binary policy loading code portion is done)
*** review the proposed kdbus lsm hooks
*** prepare and send a pull request for a couple of ecryptfs kernel fixes
** jjohansen
** pending updates (kvm CVE backports)
** push some !AppArmor patches to kernel team
** push others to upstream
** get back to stacking patches
** patch cleanup in preparation for review
** LSM stacking patches wrt apparmor as time permits
** sarnold
** weekly role: triage
** plumbers recap
** dogfood phone and investigate application development
** chrisccoulson (given outside of meeting)
** Bug:1370366
** oxide reviews
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-11-03-20.22.moin.txt
