{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Logs ====
TZ UTC-5
<pre>
(03:09:09 PM) Burgundavia: shall we grind through the general agenda items?
(03:09:11 PM) elmo: sorry I'm late
(03:09:25 PM) mako: ok, so that's mdke, mako, Burgundavia, elmo
(03:09:26 PM) mdke: yes, let's begin with the general items - we'll come to local team approvals afterwards
(03:09:35 PM) mako: yes
(03:09:36 PM) chuckf: that's bad for me mdke
(03:09:37 PM) TechnoViking is now known as MikeB
(03:09:45 PM) MikeB: I'm here
(03:09:50 PM) mako: oh, great' perfect
(03:09:58 PM) mako: MikeB: good to have you
(03:10:08 PM) chuckf: I cannot hang out here long,
(03:10:20 PM) mdke: we could do chuckf first then
(03:10:35 PM) chuckf: I had to bail once before on this
(03:11:04 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mdke; i would just appreciate if it could be done a bit faster for my
(03:11:08 PM) mdke: ok, chuckf and then ubuntuwestbengal?
(03:11:12 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: application
(03:11:16 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mdke
(03:11:17 PM) mako: fine
(03:11:18 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: oops
(03:11:21 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: yes
(03:11:24 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: thanks
(03:11:25 PM) mdke: ok. so chuckf is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/ApprovalApplication
(03:11:29 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu_West_Bengal_ApprovalApplication
(03:11:30 PM) chuckf: that's me
(03:11:37 PM) mako: after that lets please stick to the schedule, we can't spent the rest of the time talking about process and order. we don't have time
(03:11:46 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: please wait until you're called upon
(03:11:54 PM) mako: that goes for everyone else too. lets try to be efficient
(03:11:59 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mako: ok
(03:12:01 PM) mdke: chuckf: do you want to quickly summarise your team's major achievements and organisation?
(03:12:05 PM) mako: since multiple council members are time constrained
(03:12:10 PM) mdke: in the meantimie we'll read the page
(03:12:22 PM) mako: right, if you are planning on talking, please do take this time to write up summaries to paste in when you are called
(03:12:27 PM) chuckf: monthly meetings, a couple of planned presentations and install fests
(03:12:39 PM) chuckf: we've done three install fests to date and a presentation
(03:12:41 PM) mako: that goes for all locos and and member candidates who suspect they will go
(03:12:57 PM) chuckf: several members have had indivitual projects that have been ubuntu centric as well
(03:13:19 PM) chuckf: we are currently expanding around the state with mini meetings
(03:13:31 PM) cyounkins: chuckf: actually we've only done 2 install fests.
(03:13:34 PM) mdke: chuckf: how is progress going with the roadmap? which items have been achieved, and which are you focusing on right now?
(03:14:10 PM) chuckf: mdke the roadmap is going well, with a focus on expanding around the state at the moment
(03:14:15 PM) chuckf: and an install fest next month
(03:15:00 PM) Burgundavia: have you had good attendance at your previous meetings
(03:15:21 PM) chuckf: we have an average of 7-10 with a maximum of about 2 dozen
(03:15:28 PM) mdke: the roadmap looks good to me - my one comment would be that you should focus on developing the team and completing other items before you establish any sub-teams
(03:15:38 PM) chuckf: and that 7-10 rotates among regulars
(03:15:55 PM) ***mako nods
(03:16:01 PM) Burgundavia: I like the roadmap and the history of meetings
(03:16:01 PM) chuckf: mdke we do what we can as we can
(03:16:04 PM) mako: the installfest pictures look successful
(03:16:24 PM) chuckf: we've had a few new ubuntu users from each one
(03:16:41 PM) mdke: chuckf: sure. But it can be tricky to establish subteams before the parent team is pretty well established
(03:16:58 PM) mako: your projects page is blank. do you guys have things in mind?
(03:17:13 PM) mako: i mean, it's ok to not have projects. i'm just wondering why you have the page :)
(03:17:26 PM) chuckf: projects are something that we need a few more stable things happening
(03:17:36 PM) chuckf: mako it's for the future
(03:17:47 PM) chuckf: if we come up with one, we are ready for it
(03:17:48 PM) chuckf: :))
(03:18:24 PM) mako: what is growth like? attendence at events?
(03:18:25 PM) juliux: chuckf, how many people are coming to your real life meetings?
(03:18:47 PM) chuckf: mako we grow at a slow rate
(03:18:52 PM) chuckf: but it is stable
(03:19:08 PM) chuckf: juliux real life meeting attendace is typically 7-10 people
(03:19:12 PM) juliux: wau
(03:19:12 PM) mdke: the team looks to me as if its going in the right direction and is well focused. Having said that, I'd presonally like to see it a bit more well established and getting some of those roadmap items completed before approval
(03:19:25 PM) chuckf: with the last few rotating as schedules allow
(03:19:35 PM) juliux: chuckf, i love real life meetings so good work that you have them regular
(03:20:27 PM) mdke: any other thoughts?
(03:20:29 PM) Burgundavia: I think it looks good from my end
(03:20:33 PM) ***mako nods to mdke 
(03:20:34 PM) chuckf: mdke approval will help with resources and those that want to see us 'official'
(03:20:49 PM) mako: but you've been around and seem to providing a good home for ubuntu in the locale
(03:21:07 PM) mako: one should always strive to keep the meetings to productive events ratio as low as possible
(03:21:08 PM) mdke: chuckf: which resources are you looking for that require approval?
(03:21:41 PM) chuckf: mdke from what I 've seen approved teams get more printed material for events
(03:22:08 PM) chuckf: we've been passing the jobs around to get hand made stuff for ourselves
(03:22:17 PM) mdke: right
(03:22:26 PM) chuckf: and footing the total costs out of our pockets
(03:22:33 PM) chuckf: media, flyers, etc
(03:23:04 PM) doctormo: chuckf: teams have to foot the bill for many things
(03:23:13 PM) chuckf: mako over the last year, I think the ratio is about 3/1
(03:23:43 PM) chuckf: and I do realize that doctormo but if I can get the occasional freebe from cannonical it would bolster team members a bit
(03:23:46 PM) mako: that's pretty good
(03:24:25 PM) doctormo: chuckf: I'm not so sure it would, the amount of free stuff is quite limited, more CDs and a few stickers won't increase your numbers. Events however will.
(03:24:26 PM) mako: alright, lets make a decision and move on
(03:24:34 PM) ***mako nods to doctormo 
(03:24:36 PM) Burgundavia: +1 from me
(03:24:43 PM) MikeB: +1
(03:24:45 PM) mako: the primary purpose of recognitition is just that, recognition of work
(03:25:01 PM) chuckf: doctormo I'm focusing on the members that contribute now
(03:25:16 PM) mako: +1 from me, although i'll echo mdke's concerns and would like to see more progress. please keep reporting
(03:25:31 PM) mdke: ok, well I don't have a problem with approval - I don't think you are quite there yet but it sounds like you will go in the right direction so I don't have any concerns
(03:25:33 PM) mako: chuckf: loco teams should be outreach groups, not clubs
(03:25:35 PM) mdke: +1
(03:25:41 PM) mdke: elmo?
(03:25:47 PM) mako: whose next
(03:25:51 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: sir me
(03:25:53 PM) mako: west bengal, yes?
(03:25:53 PM) elmo: +1
(03:25:57 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: yes sir
(03:25:57 PM) chuckf: mako but without a club, we can't reach far:))
(03:26:03 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: please go ahead
(03:26:03 PM) chuckf: so we're approved then?
(03:26:07 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: sir
(03:26:15 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu_West_Bengal_ApprovalApplication
(03:26:35 PM) mako: chuckf: i understand what you mean. but if you're treating it like a club, i think that's a problem
(03:26:38 PM) mdke: chuckf: yes, full marks. We hope to see you guys going from strenght to strength in the future
(03:26:49 PM) ***mako nods 
(03:26:55 PM) cyounkins: Thank you.
(03:27:09 PM) mdke: chuckf: maybe you can come back and report with news on new stuff you are doing. Make sure to use the TeamReports resource
(03:27:12 PM) chuckf: mako it's a club that is open to all that want to participate
(03:27:32 PM) chuckf: mdke thanks, and I'll do that
(03:27:39 PM) mdke: ubuntuwestbengal: how have the events gone that you have done so far?
(03:28:06 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: sir the events have gone very successfully, with new ubuntu users emerging from every AV presentation
(03:28:13 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: sir we were not allowed to take pictures
(03:28:24 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: as this part of the world is a bit conservative
(03:28:25 PM) doctormo: chuckf: It's an advocasy group, linux users should join a lug not a Loco
(03:28:28 PM) mako: igorgue: your first event was february rd?
(03:28:37 PM) mako: sorry, that was for ubuntuwestbengal
(03:28:42 PM) igorgue: np
(03:28:47 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mako: sir that was our first formal event
(03:28:51 PM) chuckf: doctormo and we do work with the lugs in the area
(03:28:53 PM) desertc: Hope not to take away from the discussion too much, but what is our position on partnering with commercial linux providers for sponsorship, where they can provide the funds for LoCo expenses?
(03:29:09 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: so, how have you been acive before that?
(03:29:13 PM) chuckf: anyway, i'm being called away, thanks all
(03:29:27 PM) Burgundavia: desertc: later
(03:29:29 PM) mako: chuckf: thanks for showing up. glad we could recognize your contributions :)
(03:29:35 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: make: sir we have always been here since last year
(03:29:37 PM) chuckf: thanks mako
(03:29:55 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: and we have beend distributing free CDs that we bought ourselves and burned
(03:30:07 PM) Burgundavia: ubuntuwestbengal: it looks like the team only existed since dec 2007?
(03:30:09 PM) mdke: ubuntuwestbengal: do you have a relationship with loco teams in neighbouring states? What language is used in your area and do you contribute to translations?
(03:30:25 PM) mako: Burgundavia: that's last year ;)
(03:30:29 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: Sir the language here is Hindi
(03:30:43 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: although we are working on bengali translations sir
(03:31:03 PM) Burgundavia: mako: yes, well the page says 2008, which hasn't happened yet :)
(03:31:25 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: Burgundavia: sorry sir?
(03:31:38 PM) mdke: ubuntuwestbengal: is there an official Ubuntu translation team for bengali?
(03:31:47 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: listen, this is important. have you been involved in signfiicant activites beyond in the last month or two?
(03:31:48 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: not at the moment sir
(03:31:55 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: yes sir
(03:31:58 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: your work looks really good :)
(03:32:03 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: thank you sir
(03:32:43 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: but i don't see doucmentation of activity beyond the last three weeks
(03:32:49 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: it is very important for us to make sure that the community at large in west bengal is aware that there is life beyond microsoft and macs
(03:33:13 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: and even the events are just one-line links
(03:33:16 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mako: sir due to technical difficulties here, we havent been able to properly update the activities
(03:33:35 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mako: sir i have just summarised them for your convenience
(03:33:42 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: ok, can we put this on hold then and then come back when you've got that documentation done?
(03:33:45 PM) mdke: I agree with mako, I think we need to see more evidence of committed events over a longer period.
(03:33:55 PM) Burgundavia: I agree too
(03:33:59 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: i appreciate that, but we've got to look at evidence of significant and sustained activity and contributions
(03:34:02 PM) mdke: I also think you need to work on showing collaboration with other teams. for example, there are three bengali translation teams
(03:34:14 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: that means months of activities and it means documentation we can look at
(03:34:16 PM) mdke: bn-bd, bn-id and bn
(03:34:28 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: pictures, press, etc
(03:34:32 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: sir i guess there may have been a communication lapse between the translation teams
(03:34:41 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: sir we were not allowed to take pictures
(03:34:47 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: as the events were held in schools(03:34:56 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: please work closely with jono and add yourself back to the agenda when he says the documentation is sufficient
(03:35:02 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: sir, they did not allow cameras
(03:35:18 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: fine, take pictures of the other ones. fliers testimonials, writeups, etc
(03:35:23 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mako: i spke to Jono a while back today and he said everything was fine sir
(03:35:24 PM) mdke: ubuntuwestbengal: perhaps you could contact the teams and collaborate, and then come back at a later stage
(03:35:39 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mako: sir i did, the poster is shown there
(03:36:19 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mdke: and sir we have also been going personally to peoples houses to install Ubuntu if they faced problems
(03:36:27 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: i appreciate that, but i don't see documentation of your activity or any evidence of what happened before 3 weeks ago
(03:36:32 PM) mdke: ubuntuwestbengal: ok. We appreciate your enthusiasm and look forward to hearing more about your work in the community. But for now, the team application isn't ready for approval
(03:36:44 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mdke: i understand sir
(03:36:48 PM) mako: ubuntuwestbengal: that's right, we're going to come back to you at some point in the future
(03:36:53 PM) mdke: thanks for staying up late to talk with us
(03:37:01 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mdke: my pleasure sir
(03:37:11 PM) ubuntuwestbengal: mdke: i will get back to you sir
(03:37:12 PM) mako: denmark?
(03:37:24 PM) mdke: mako: we should go back to the regular agenda if poss
(03:37:32 PM) Burgundavia: yep
(03:37:37 PM) ***schultmc has 40 mins left - can Indiana go soon?
(03:37:47 PM) mako: please
(03:37:51 PM) mako: we're going to go in order
(03:38:19 PM) mako: is denmark here?
(03:38:25 PM) mako: oh you're right
(03:38:29 PM) mako: mdke: sorry, i got off track
(03:38:41 PM) mako: looks like denmark isn't here anyway?
(03:38:45 PM) mdke: 20:09:07 < mdke> we need jono for the first item, but my understanding from our thread on the mailing list was that he would remove it because we don't actually have an approval  process for teams
(03:39:04 PM) mako: mdke: great, so we skip it either way
(03:39:09 PM) mdke: item two
(03:39:10 PM) mako:  AmirEldor
(03:39:10 PM) mako: 	
(03:39:12 PM) mako: LoCo Website Hosting. Several teams find it diffcult to manage their websites/domains due to lack of communciation with Canonical's sysadmins
(03:39:14 PM) MagicFab: nick for Denmark would be gnomonic, not here I think
(03:39:31 PM) mdke: am I right this was discussed at a previous meeting?
(03:39:36 PM) gcleric: yup...
(03:39:39 PM) posingaspopular: mdke: yes
(03:39:52 PM) elmo: really?  I picked a great meeting to miss!
(03:39:59 PM) elmo: \o/
(03:40:06 PM) mdke: elmo: I read that on the loco mailing list, I will get a link
(03:40:15 PM) MagicFab: There was no conclusion, though - just general information
(03:40:20 PM) mako: elmo: apparently :)
(03:40:34 PM) Burgundavia: is this really an issue for the CC?
(03:40:45 PM) mako: Burgundavia: no, it's not (at least not yet
(03:40:55 PM) mdke: I don't think the CC can do anything about it, at least
(03:41:17 PM) mako: alright then, moving on
(03:41:22 PM) Flannel: Burgundavia: I believe on  the -contacts list, it was recommended it be taken to the CC
(03:41:48 PM) craigaa: as a LoCo team lead I see it as resource issue. I have been lead to believe that the sysadmins are overwhelmed with requests
(03:42:13 PM) mako: craigaa: it sounds like this is not on the agenda
(03:42:19 PM) mdke: the only thing I think we can explore is whether there is anything the community can do to help
(03:42:20 PM) tritium: That is my understanding as well.
(03:42:25 PM) Burgundavia: but the CC cannot "force" canonical to either spend money or open up access
(03:42:31 PM) mako: persia: is up next
(03:42:34 PM) persia: MOTU Council would like to request explicit permission to grant Ubuntu Membership independently from granting MOTU membership.  Some background and justification is available from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Council/GrantingMembership
(03:42:37 PM) persia: In short, MOTU Council currently grants membership as a side-effect when adding new members to MOTU.  We'd prefer to separate these to both typically consider Membership separately from MOTU, and provide a mechanism to recognise significant and sustained contribution without granting upload rights yet.
(03:42:40 PM) elmo: FWIW, I'm happy to talk to people about this, in #canonical-sysadmin
(03:42:40 PM) mako: persia: thanks :)
(03:42:45 PM) elmo: (to keep us on topic)
(03:42:50 PM) mako: thanks elmo
(03:42:54 PM) Burgundavia: elmo: thanks
(03:43:17 PM) popey: * elmo leaves #canonical-sysadmin [run for the hills]
(03:44:03 PM) Traveler7: mako, Amir Eldor cuold't have come but he aske dme to come in his name..
(03:44:06 PM) mako: persia: alright... can you give me example
(03:44:07 PM) mdke: persia: +1 from me. when the regional membership boards are set up, the MC can encourage candidates to use those, to assist with time considerations
(03:44:32 PM) mako: persia: the request sounds pretty reasonable
(03:44:45 PM) Burgundavia: +1 from me
(03:44:50 PM) mdke: the only thing that is important for me is to ensure that news of the new members is spread around the community in the same way we envisage for other councils or boards
(03:45:04 PM) mdke: for me, the UWN is the centre for all that
(03:45:11 PM) mako: but presumably the MOTU council will be reviewing candidate who are the type of person who starts uploading
(03:45:31 PM) elmo: I'd like to know an example too
(03:45:36 PM) persia: mako: I'd have to chase the approval logs, but there are several Contributors who have been doing good work for 3-6 months, but still make occasional mistakes.  We'd like to indicate to them that they are welcome and part of Ubuntu while asking them to learn more before they have root on our workstations.
(03:45:42 PM) mako: what are the types of significant, sustained constributions that do no cause you to want to grant upload rights that you want to grant membership for?
(03:46:20 PM) ***mako nods
(03:46:46 PM) persia: No other types of contribution.  Just that they still would need sponsorship for uploads, but have been doing good work, and are valued members of the development community.
(03:46:48 PM) mako: persia: are there are other types of contribution that do not benefit from upload rights that you want to recognize with membershiop?
(03:46:50 PM) Burgundavia: persia: sort of a supervised motu?
(03:46:59 PM) mako: man, you keep answering my questions right as i'm done typing them
(03:47:09 PM) ***ScottK2 would suggest that nxvl_work that's up later today would be a good example of the kind of person this would apply to
(03:47:22 PM) persia: Burgundavia: Somewhat.  Of the ~320 people who have changelog credits for hardy, at least 2/3 are not MOTU.
(03:47:38 PM) mako: persia: bug work is one thing that springs to mind
(03:48:03 PM) mako: persia: ok, has the rest of hte motu council agreed that they want to do this?
(03:48:16 PM) persia: mako: Ah.  I see what you mean.  Yes, contributions in other areas would be considered when examining an applicant, but MC doesn't expect to receive applications from those not active as developers.
(03:49:06 PM) persia: The rest of MOTU Council is agreed, and it was discussed in our last two calls.  The wiki page is the result of discussion amoung us (although I was tasked with drafting and presentation to CC).
(03:49:16 PM) mdke: sounds perfectly reasonable to me. Will it be a problem to report new members to the UWN?
(03:49:27 PM) mako: persia: ok, as long as the the level of commitement, contribution , and interpersonal skills is the same, i have no problem
(03:49:43 PM) persia: mdke: It oughtn't be, although we may need some guidance on the mechanism for such reporting.
(03:50:01 PM) mdke: ok, we should do something along those lines for all the teams granting membership - leave it with me
(03:50:01 PM) mako: persia: my only concern is that i *really* don't want to see membership become a first hurdle
(03:50:13 PM) mako: because then membership becomes a sort of first-step toward developership
(03:50:18 PM) mako: and a lesser status in the project
(03:50:22 PM) mako: and i don't like that all
(03:50:44 PM) mako: i want every member who does technical work to be treated as a peer with non-technical contributors
(03:50:56 PM) ***johnc4510 UWN gets the councils new members from a mailing list or wiki page, we would need some way of knowing when it happens with MOTU
(03:51:03 PM) ScottK2: That used to be the case (membership was a requirement).
(03:51:04 PM) mako: of course, they are orthagol, but i want a technocracy
(03:51:26 PM) persia: mako: We discussed that, and would be willing to consider people for both MOTU and Member at the same time, but in most cases Contributors would be ready for Membership prior to being ready for MOTU, so it would provide a ramp for them.  Not so much a "lower" status, as just able to represent, but not yet to upload.
(03:51:32 PM) mdke: ScottK2: membership has always been a requirement - just that it could be granted at the same time as motu status
(03:52:16 PM) persia: mdke: Yes, but due to other factors, the majority of MOTU applicants are not members at this point.
(03:52:34 PM) mdke: sure, I don't have a problem with your proposal
(03:52:37 PM) mdke: incidentally, congrats on the MC in general - seems to be working really well.
(03:52:41 PM) tritium: membership is a big bottleneck.  Look at today's agenda, with applicants from as far back as August.
(03:53:35 PM) mako: persia: do you understand my concern?
(03:53:43 PM) mdke: tritium: that's rather a different question, which we've sought to address in the StreamlineMembershipApproval spec
(03:54:08 PM) tritium: mdke: agreed
(03:54:16 PM) mako: persia: i'm very worried about doing thigns that will cause membership to be seen a sort of lesser status in the project
(03:54:21 PM) posingaspopular: cani just say that the foresight linux people are designing their membership applications specifically to avoid bottlenecks like ours?
(03:54:34 PM) mako: persia: because the effect of that is to make the non-technical members less highly ranking in the project
(03:55:04 PM) mako: posingaspopular: we are also designing our applications to do the same, but lets stay on topic
(03:55:06 PM) ScottK2: mako: To the extent that developers care about non-technical ranking, I don't think you have to worry.
(03:55:13 PM) persia: mako: About peers?  I think so.  You want all members to be roughly equal, rather than having development members possibly being considered "lesser" due to the alternate forum, right?
(03:55:41 PM) mdke: persia: non-development members
(03:55:52 PM) persia: That is part of why we raise the topic here: if it is believed that all Members should have the same approval process, we may want to push interested parties to other fora rather than providing dual-approvals in most cases.
(03:56:39 PM) mako: persia: so, i support your proposal, i'm just make sure you're on board with part of the way that membership is conceived when you're making your decisions on how to handle this
(03:56:58 PM) mako: many many free software projects privledge technical contributions to other types
(03:57:03 PM) mdke: my personal opinion is that if the regional membership approval teams work properly, that is where we should get to in the long run. Right now I don't think we can get to that place
(03:57:07 PM) mako: the doc and art people get less respect, visibility, etc
(03:57:14 PM) mdke: (i.e. with all members having the same approval process)
(03:57:18 PM) gcleric:  mdke: would it be in appropriate to state that there is a freeze on new memberships until the issue StreamlineMembershipApproval is finished?
(03:57:30 PM) persia: mdke: Ah.  I understand.  I'm not sure how to respond to that: I'm much more comfortable having someone help and be part of the community than giving them unrestricted root on my workstation.
(03:57:35 PM) mako: gcleric: no, that's not appropriate to state
(03:57:50 PM) mako: persia: right, that's a sensible position and that's one we've taken
(03:58:27 PM) elmo: (I've got to step out for 5 mins; assuming persia understands mako/mdke's points, +1 from me, bbias)
(03:58:49 PM) gcleric: mako: but that is what is being communicated by not getting to the new memberships.
(03:58:59 PM) mako: persia: but it's the fine line between "technical skills are handled differently and after membership" to "technical recognition is the next step up the ubuntu recognition food chain"
(03:59:09 PM) persia: mako: OK.  We're certainly not planning to lower the bar for membership: we're expecting several months of considerable contributions as a base requirement, with a need for community support and demonstration of community interaction.  We're still discussing the specific criteria we will apply.
(03:59:14 PM) greg-g: gcleric: please, can we let them finish their current agenda items so we can get to the membership approvals
(03:59:39 PM) mako: gcleric: we're doing the best we can here, talk about how we're not getting to things isn't speeding it up, but feel free to talk to me in a side channel where we don't have to distract the rest of the meeting
(04:00:12 PM) persia: mako: For those who are developers, commit rights is the target goal.  Other bits appear ancillary.  For those active in other ways, I don't think commit rights help very much, and so may not be important.
(04:00:19 PM) mdke: I think we can trust the MC to take the right approach when granting membership
(04:00:33 PM) mako: persia: ok, +1 from me but please keep that in mind and don't hesitate to run your text by me
(04:00:38 PM) mako: persia: thanks for bearing with me
(04:00:49 PM) Burgundavia: +1 from me with the same clarification as mako
(04:01:05 PM) persia: mako: No problem.  As we get closer to implementation, we'll provide some more details to confirm the criteria.
(04:01:12 PM) mdke: good. Denmark?
(04:01:15 PM) mako: persia: wonderful
(04:01:22 PM) mako: persia: please keep me in the loop
(04:01:25 PM) mako: mdke: seems like a no show
(04:01:32 PM) mako: columbia
(04:01:42 PM) persia: Just to confirm, is there any reason to not include all CC members "in the loop"?
(04:01:44 PM) MagicFab: Colombia, that is
(04:01:58 PM) MagicFab: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ApprovalApplication
(04:02:08 PM) MagicFab: It has been a slow but steady path to bring together an active group of Ubuntu users in the Colombian Team. Free open source software does not have much visibility in local media and the governement, educational and private initiatives have only been gaining traction for the past few 2-3 years. Microsoft and other local lobbies are hard at work to stop any free software initiatives.
(04:02:10 PM) Burgundavia: persia: don't think so, just fire it at our list
(04:02:12 PM) mdke: persia: nope
(04:02:16 PM) schultmc: FYI, /me has to leave at 21:15 - SimonAnibal will handle Indiana if I'm not back by the time you get to Indiana
(04:02:27 PM) MagicFab: In that context the team is facing interesting challenges compared to other countries where governement and private organizations are already massively implementing free, open source solutions (including but not limited to Ubuntu).
(04:02:43 PM) MagicFab: The mailing list remains the most active resource, and public events and conferences are where members participate the most. I personally expect to "pass the torch" to other members once the team is official, and there is very high interest in pursuing out objectives from several regular contributors and members.
(04:03:10 PM) MagicFab: Several members are on the channel here too, we' re happy to answer questions
(04:03:32 PM) MagicFab: including darkhole :)
(04:03:33 PM) mdke: thanks, that's a helpful summary. on my favourite subject, how do you interrelate to other similar teams?
(04:03:51 PM) mdke: geographically, or linguistically
(04:04:10 PM) MagicFab: I sit on their channels :) We actively invite them to copy resources we create based on the english material. A few of our members are very active translating wiki guides
(04:04:25 PM) mdke: how about Ubuntu translation?
(04:04:48 PM) MagicFab: May I also mention I am writing this from Montreal, Canada - so I effectively have lead the team for a good while from here.
(04:05:33 PM) MagicFab: A few members participate in translation. Good part of my karma to become a member was that too. But translations happens mostly on wiki resources.
(04:05:36 PM) Burgundavia: MagicFab: related to the being in montreal bit: have you sought out somebody in country to do the leading?
(04:05:47 PM) MagicFab: We helped translate and revise the CoC signing guide and IRC guides
(04:05:53 PM) MagicFab: keys to membership process
(04:06:07 PM) ***johnc4510 UWN always needs translators too
(04:06:20 PM) mdke: what plans do you have for your website?
(04:06:30 PM) MagicFab: Burgundavia, yes, I have several very good candidates. It' s going to be a blood bath and >54 members know how to use the polls in LP
(04:06:46 PM) MagicFab: mdke - going to #canonical-sysadmin after this meeting :)
(04:07:00 PM) Burgundavia: MagicFab: a bloodbath?
(04:07:07 PM) MagicFab: mdke, I have people on standby to work on Drupal, a local wiki and other stuff. But holding on that for now
(04:07:26 PM) MagicFab: Burgundavia, I expect at least 5 string candidates to lead - we may end up having a council (similar to -ve
(04:07:33 PM) Burgundavia: ahh, ok
(04:07:58 PM) mdke: MagicFab: I mean, what purpose will it serve
(04:08:01 PM) nxvl_work: MagicFab: and -pe :P
(04:08:01 PM) MagicFab: We also made a pretty clear and traight forward membership guide - Colombian team membership, that is
(04:08:20 PM) mako: hold up, back in 5 minutes
(04:08:25 PM) mako: i'll catch up
(04:08:50 PM) MagicFab: mdke, the website would carry local news, agregate blogs, and a local wiki for documentation pertinent to colombia (like how to use uBuntu with X university' s network VPN etc)
(04:09:54 PM) luis_lopez: I think it's important to mention that 96% of our members have signed the CoC
(04:09:54 PM) MagicFab: The focus now is a  big event, the FLISOL - an installfest across LatinAmerica. We have people organizing in several cities. Last year was good for preparation and experience.
(04:10:10 PM) jag2kn: http://installfest.info/
(04:10:15 PM) jag2kn: http://installfest.info/FLISOL2008/Colombia/
(04:10:43 PM) MagicFab: We' ve also created a new langaguege teamcollaborating with the Venezuela team - > Ubuntu in wayuunaiki
(04:10:43 PM) MagicFab: https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-guc
(04:10:49 PM) mdke: MagicFab: sounds good. any plans in relation to local support?
(04:10:55 PM) MagicFab: I'll shut up now
(04:11:07 PM) MagicFab: Local support, yes.
(04:11:25 PM) MagicFab: In Colombia major cities have minimalls full of PC component and full system selleers
(04:11:37 PM) MagicFab: It is planned to go visit them and educate them about Ubuntu
(04:11:49 PM) MagicFab: And assist them in providing support
....
(04:17:24 PM) Burgundavia: mako, MikeB, elmo: further questions?
(04:17:26 PM) MagicFab: Generally speaking I see a trend towards strong hispanic teams participation
(04:17:32 PM) mako: sorry, just coming back now
(04:17:33 PM) MagicFab: I mean collaboration.
(04:17:53 PM) ***leogg cheers for Colombia, It's a great team and they play a pretty active and important role in the Spanish speaking LoCo community
(04:18:41 PM) MagicFab: leogg, from -ni spearheded the Ubuntu Desktop course translation and we' re joining with -ve to help out
(04:18:46 PM) MikeB: sorry, got called into my bosses office, let me read back
(04:19:07 PM) ***igorgue says viva colombia latinos al poder!, congrats :)
(04:19:58 PM) leogg: MagicFab, that's correct... it's LoCo collaboration all the way:)
(04:20:41 PM) Burgundavia: I have to run in 10
(04:20:47 PM) mako: so what are the feelings of the council members?
(04:21:30 PM) Burgundavia: +1 from me, but yes, come back when you have a council/leader in place
(04:21:43 PM) mdke: +1 from me
(04:22:07 PM) mako: i'm also fine with approval
(04:22:19 PM) elmo: +1
(04:22:43 PM) MagicFab: Thank you - cheers to all that worked hard for this! :)
(04:22:52 PM) jag2kn: :D
(04:22:57 PM) hollman:  cherssssss
(04:22:58 PM) darkhole: Thanks to you too
(04:22:59 PM) jag2kn: thanks
(04:22:59 PM) schultmc: back
(04:23:01 PM) hollman: thank's
(04:23:04 PM) Hanumat: :D
(04:23:05 PM) luis_lopez: viva colombia!
(04:23:08 PM) SimonAnibal: schultmc, Excellent timing, bro ;-)
(04:23:14 PM) darkhole: :)
(04:23:16 PM) leogg: congrats MagicFab - arriba Colombia!
(04:23:17 PM) Hanumat: :D
(04:23:29 PM) SimonAnibal: ¡Felicitaciones, hermanos Colombianos!
(04:23:29 PM) ***MagicFab hugs all other team members - saquen el aguardiente **
(04:23:29 PM) Hanumat: Viva Colombia...!!
(04:23:33 PM) mako: sounds good
(04:23:39 PM) MagicFab: ok - shhhh... meeting in progress
(04:23:42 PM) schultmc: SimonAnibal: thx :)
(04:23:45 PM) n0rman: ehehheeh congrats MagicFab
(04:23:46 PM) leogg: XD
(04:24:12 PM) mako: alright, lets move on
(04:24:15 PM) Hanumat: :D
(04:24:24 PM) mako: indiana
(04:24:30 PM) schultmc: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianaTeam/ApprovalApplication
(04:24:30 PM) schultmc: The IndianaTeam is approaching its one year anniversary.  So far we've held monthly IRC meetings, decided on a team logo, setup a CafePress site for team apparel, participated in several conferences (IU LinuxFest, ITEC, Ohio LinuxFest, K-12 Open Minds Conference), and held a Gutsy Release Party.
(04:24:35 PM) schultmc: We're helping plan an Indiana LinuxFest and are planning a Hardy Release Party for April as well as continuing our educational and advocacy focuses.
(04:25:01 PM) mako: wow, that sounds pretty full :)
(04:25:10 PM) schultmc: :)
(04:25:16 PM) SimonAnibal: mako, We wanted to make sure we only had to come before you once ;-)
(04:25:28 PM) SimonAnibal: Well, that is, to get Approved
(04:25:38 PM) mako: SimonAnibal: yeah! i can see that
(04:25:46 PM) mako: i'm glad you're working with inACCESS :)
(04:25:57 PM) mako: i went out and gave a talk at a conference they organized last year, it's exciting stuff
(04:26:00 PM) SimonAnibal: It's what got me into Ubuntu
(04:26:26 PM) SimonAnibal: Yeah, I said hi to you the next day, I had planned to go on Thursday so as to see your talk, but David Thornburg was held up
(04:26:44 PM) mako: ah yes, sorry, putting  face to a name
(04:26:55 PM) mako: wonderful application
(04:26:57 PM) SimonAnibal: Yeah, I'm sure I didn't mention my name.
(04:26:57 PM) schultmc: mako has also met me :)
(04:28:01 PM) mako: you guys should put your logo on your page :)
(04:28:05 PM) SimonAnibal: I also gave a talk at that conference, as you can see on our application
(04:28:12 PM) SimonAnibal: mako, I keep meaning to do that...
(04:28:24 PM) schultmc: mako: it's on our launchpad page at least
(04:28:33 PM) mako: anyway, i'm happy not spending any more time in this meeting
(04:28:38 PM) mako: +1 for approval for me
(04:28:53 PM) Burgundavia: +1 from me
(04:29:01 PM) elmo: +1
(04:29:02 PM) Burgundavia: tonnes of meetings, tonnes of experience, nice roadmap
(04:29:02 PM) mdke: very well documented page
(04:29:04 PM) mako: the application itself is very well put together, pictures are helpful
(04:29:05 PM) mdke: +1
(04:29:06 PM) Burgundavia: and I need to run
(04:29:06 PM) desertc: +1
(04:29:12 PM) mako: Burgundavia: thanks
(04:29:38 PM) mako: lets see if we can can handle a few members who have been waiting for a long time
(04:29:41 PM) mako: and who are here
(04:29:42 PM) SimonAnibal: Thank you, all
(04:29:48 PM) nxvl_work: o/
(04:29:49 PM) mdke: thanks SimonAnibal
(04:29:50 PM) mako: before mdke disappears
(04:29:51 PM) schultmc: Thank you!
(04:29:53 PM) ***desertc cheers SimonAnibal.
(04:29:58 PM) mako: great work SimonAnibal and schultmc
(04:29:58 PM) desertc: Great work!
(04:30:11 PM) SimonAnibal: This is just the beginning
(04:30:50 PM) mako: demrit Miguel Vazquez Gocobachi ?
(04:30:54 PM) mako: perhaps time to remove from the page
(04:31:02 PM) MikeB: back finally
(04:31:07 PM) MikeB: +1 for Columbia
(04:31:11 PM) mako: Forlong/Nick Bauermeister
(04:31:29 PM) mako: RichardoPerez?
(04:31:41 PM) darkhole: Thanks MikeB
(04:31:44 PM) mako: juliux i know i've seen around today
(04:32:03 PM) MikeB: +1 for Indiana, but under full disclosure, I was born in Indiana (Tell City) and went to Indiana University)
(04:32:11 PM) MikeB: so I may be bias:)
(04:32:14 PM) johnc4510: lol
(04:32:38 PM) juliux: mako, ys
(04:32:44 PM) juliux: yes
(04:32:51 PM) SimonAnibal: MikeB, heheh, well, you know who to get ahold of if you're ever in the old hometown itching for some Ubuntu love
(04:33:04 PM) juliux: mako, dholbach allready approved my membership
(04:33:11 PM) juliux: mako, see mail on the cc mailinglist
(04:33:14 PM) mako: ok, let me remove that
(04:33:25 PM) juliux: forlong can be removed
(04:33:30 PM) mako: juliux: yes, i recall. i'm just going through the list in order
(04:33:31 PM) MikeB: SimonAnibal: Tell City or Bloomington?
(04:33:40 PM) juliux: he is from germany but not realy active
(04:33:58 PM) mako: StevenHarperUK?
(04:33:59 PM) SimonAnibal: MikeB, whichever. We're all over the state.
(04:34:08 PM) mako: quadrispro?
(04:34:28 PM) mako: leoquant?
(04:34:42 PM) laacque: I m afraid leoq has gone, he s disabled so can t stay up this long, doesn t mean that he isn t a good teamleader of course
(04:34:51 PM) mako: Caeser/Andrew Pollack?
(04:35:18 PM) mako: laacque: ok, but still interested will leave him on the list. if it becomes a huge problem we can find some other way to do it. the next meeting will be at a different time
(04:35:36 PM) mdke: maybe we'll even have the regional teams going!
(04:35:45 PM) mako: posingaspopular seems to be next
(04:35:54 PM) nixternal: w00t posingaspopular!
(04:35:57 PM) ***johnc4510 cheers for posingaspopular w00t
(04:36:13 PM) ***greg-g go posingaspopular !
(04:36:19 PM) tyche: GO posingaspopular!
(04:36:21 PM) nixternal: He definitely has my vote! He is now the team lead for Ubuntu Chicago, and I believe he has done more work with the LoCo than I ever did
(04:36:37 PM) nixternal: and he better not have fallen asleep waiting
(04:36:42 PM) johnc4510: good mix with other teams
(04:36:44 PM) mako: no really posingaspopular. go :)
(04:36:47 PM) posingaspopular: yea
(04:36:50 PM) posingaspopular: hey all
(04:36:52 PM) nixternal: about time!
(04:36:56 PM) johnc4510: yes
(04:36:56 PM) johnc4510: lol
(04:37:02 PM) posingaspopular: i was getting yelled at by my coworkers...
(04:37:14 PM) mako: pleasant
(04:37:20 PM) nixternal: you can also be assured that he has the vote from his brother Admiral_Chicago too :)
(04:37:33 PM) mako: ironically, you seem to be legimiately popular
(04:37:34 PM) nixternal: mako: we always yell at him though :) he is used to it
(04:37:42 PM) nixternal: mako: no, he is posing
(04:37:45 PM) posingaspopular: so i am the leader for the chicago Loco, and we have a never project we are working on, still hush hush atm. :P
(04:38:21 PM) Admiral_Chicago: I vote in favor :)
(04:38:33 PM) posingaspopular: meetings every 6 weeks or so (btw all of this is on the wiki's, im just lazy) and for the heck of it i'll throw out the project we're working on
(04:38:51 PM) nixternal: lazy? -1 from me now
(04:39:16 PM) posingaspopular: the LoCo is going to start working on a sort of Ubuntu hackathon school which means that we'll be teaching teh desktop guide to anyone who wants to learn, and then moving on to advanced ubutnu hacking
(04:39:31 PM) ***mako is happy with +1 on well documented loco work.. and other stuff :)
(04:39:41 PM) posingaspopular: we are meeting in 2 weeks to finally hammer out all the details
(04:39:44 PM) nixternal: he has done a ton for real with a local Christian College by converting them over 100% to Ubuntu, and even got the support from quite a few members as well in the process...good work done by all
(04:39:49 PM) mako: i'm interested in project green too
(04:39:51 PM) posingaspopular: thanks mako, i like your blogs.
(04:39:54 PM) mdke: yes +1 from me, good page and clear contribution over a decent period. I've come across posingaspopular on -doc and he is very enthusiastic
(04:39:57 PM) posingaspopular: mako: thats the CC propject
(04:40:03 PM) anthony: posingaspopular has been helpful in acting as a loco catalyst - encouraging other teams
(04:40:12 PM) posingaspopular: also, we are have launched the Tri Loco team
(04:40:17 PM) ***boredandblogging cheers for posingaspopular!
(04:40:40 PM) posingaspopular: it's Chicago, Ohio and Michigan where we collab between the 3 (jcastro gave us the idea) to spread the teams in the midwest
(04:40:46 PM) greg-g: The Tri-LoCo project is great for the Michigan, Chicago, and Ohio teams
(04:40:54 PM) posingaspopular: catch up on news, talk abotu ridesharings
(04:40:59 PM) nixternal: hahaha
(04:41:08 PM) posingaspopular: posingaspopular.wordpress.com is my blog
(04:41:20 PM) schultmc: you should expand to the Quad-LoCo project now since Indiana's approved now ;)
(04:41:28 PM) nixternal: schultmc: +1
(04:41:28 PM) greg-g: schultmc: good point
(04:41:33 PM) posingaspopular: ive been meanign to update it and file some hardy bugs btw.. schultmc pm me please
(04:41:37 PM) mako: today indiana, tomorrow... THE WORLD
(04:41:52 PM) elmo: +1
(04:41:59 PM) ***nixternal crawls back into his code writing hole
(04:42:01 PM) mako: MikeB, mdke: ?
(04:42:09 PM) MikeB: +1
(04:42:13 PM) posingaspopular: and i charied the last ubuntu-us meeting. speeaking of which greg-g we need to decided a date for the new one
(04:42:25 PM) mako: posingaspopular: in another channel :)
(04:42:30 PM) greg-g: posingaspopular: yes, we'll do that later tonight, email/pm me
(04:42:42 PM) mako: leogg: why don't you start
(04:43:05 PM) posingaspopular: also, of course, confrences, hacktahons, codesprints, etc.
(04:43:06 PM) Admiral_Chicago: is that a yes on posingaspopular?
(04:43:10 PM) leogg: Hi! My name is Leandro Gómez, I'm the team contact and one of the founders of the Ubuntu Nicaragua LoCo Team. My wiki is located in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Leocharrua and my Launchpad profile: https://launchpad.net/~leogomez72
(04:43:23 PM) leogg: My main efforts has been in developing the local Ubuntu community and mentoring some of the teams in the Central American area. We have today (12 months later) a strong and dedicated team of enthusiastic individuals who puts a lot of work in promoting Ubuntu and FOSS in our country.
(04:43:33 PM) nixternal: Admiral_Chicago: gotta wait for burgandavia and sabdfl to vote yet...so he has to wait more than likely
(04:43:37 PM) leogg: My goals for 2008; 1) Contribute to make all Central American teams approved by the end of the year. 2) Become MOTU :)
(04:43:40 PM) mdke: Admiral_Chicago: yes
(04:44:00 PM) Admiral_Chicago: cool
(04:44:11 PM) posingaspopular: thanks, ttyl soon.
(04:44:30 PM) johnc4510: posingaspopular: congrats
(04:44:42 PM) Admiral_Chicago: \o/! --> posingaspopular
(04:45:04 PM) posingaspopular: okay leogg time everyone!
(04:45:18 PM) leogg: :)
(04:45:55 PM) ***jorsol cheers for leogg, one of the best leaders of Central America
(04:46:34 PM) leogg: thx jorsol
(04:47:58 PM) mdke: leogg: I'm interested in knowing how the various spanish teams collaborate - are you involved in ubuntu-es.org?
(04:48:18 PM) ***ledanalf cheers for leogg too :D 
(04:48:27 PM) leogg: mdke: in the spanish speaking loco? yes
(04:48:46 PM) mako: the loco page is wonderful
(04:48:48 PM) mdke: how does that team interrelate to teams like Ubuntu Spain and other spanish speaking teams?
(04:48:52 PM) igorgue: leogg: does not have red blood... its brown and orange :), cheers to leogg
(04:48:54 PM) leogg: thank you mako
(04:49:34 PM) leogg: mdke, we work mainly with LoCo Teams in our area (Central America), we had some events together with -sv and -gt
(04:49:44 PM) leogg: and we share information and resources
(04:49:48 PM) mdke: great
(04:50:27 PM) leogg: we are also looking forward to collaborate with 'co and ve in translating the Ubuntu desktop course
(04:50:42 PM) mako: alright
(04:50:54 PM) mdke: well, for me your wiki page I'd say you are a pretty outstanding candidate. Keep up the good work and +1 from me
(04:51:04 PM) leogg: thanks mdke
(04:51:05 PM) mako: i'm happy approving membership based on what appears to major activity in a very active and successful loco
(04:51:08 PM) mako: +1 from me too
(04:51:15 PM) leogg: thanks mako
(04:51:36 PM) mako: MikeB, elmo: ?
(04:51:45 PM) ***jorsol +1 for leogg
(04:51:49 PM) mako: Flare183 doesn't seem to be here?
(04:51:49 PM) MikeB: +1
(04:51:57 PM) ***ledanalf + for leogg
(04:52:04 PM) mako: gcleric: alright, you're up
(04:52:11 PM) ***MaPo +1 for leogg
(04:52:13 PM) leogg: thanks MikeB :)
(04:52:24 PM) gcleric: My name is Eric Krieger and I'm from Albuquerque, New Mexico.   I've been using Ubuntu since the days of Warty and various linux distro's since 1993. Please feel to browse my wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GrammatonCleric.  Along the way I've written several HOWTO's on the Ubuntu Forum and I've tried to help users in need. I'm currently active member, and like to think a core member, of the New Mexico LoCo team.  As NM Loco member I've wa
(04:52:27 PM) ***MagicFab cheers for leogg
(04:52:39 PM) mako: gcleric: sorry if i was rude earlier, was just trying to move things along
(04:52:41 PM) leogg: thanks MagicFab
(04:52:50 PM) tritium: gcleric: _is_ one of our core members
(04:52:59 PM) igorgue: congrats leogg, lets get drunk!
(04:53:00 PM) gcleric: no worries...sorry if I was being disruptive...
(04:53:15 PM) leogg: XD
(04:53:16 PM) mdke: gcleric: have you contributed any of the howtos you've written to the documentation website?
(04:53:47 PM) gcleric: I've written all of them...on my wiki site.
(04:53:53 PM) effie_jayx: congrats leogg
(04:54:11 PM) leogg: thanks effie_jayx :)
(04:55:04 PM) tritium: I'd like to point out that gcleric is the project lead on our most important project: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Endorphin_Power_Company_Ubuntu_Install_and_Support
(04:55:25 PM) mdke: gcleric: it would be nice to see you contributing directly to the wiki on the documentation website, that way our central documentation resource can benefit from your efforts
(04:55:47 PM) gcleric: mdke: I would love to.
(04:56:14 PM) gcleric: I will make a point to do so in furture.
(04:56:20 PM) tritium: gcleric has also supported our install-fests, and Software Freedom Day events, and is the most active contributor to our mailing list.
(04:56:23 PM) mdke: great. check out https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WikiGuide for an intro and feel free to hang out on the ubuntu-doc mailing list and fire any questions
(04:56:47 PM) mdke: gcleric: you might also find some helpful material on porting forum articles at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/forum
(04:57:21 PM) gcleric: mdke: thank you I will port what I have to the documentation website.  =)
(04:57:43 PM) mdke: this Endorphin Power Company initiative sounds really interesting too
(04:57:44 PM) elmo: +1 for leogg, sorry
(04:58:07 PM) mako: mdke: yeah, absolutely
(04:58:20 PM) gcleric: yes the EPC project is proving to be really rewarding on many fronts.
(04:58:26 PM) tritium: mdke: yes, it is truly supporting needy people in our locale, and could potentially gain quite a bit of positive press for Ubuntu.
(04:58:34 PM) mdke: that's very good to hear about
(04:58:49 PM) mdke: have you let the UWN guys know about the project? would be good to get it some more exposure
(04:58:55 PM) tritium: As the NM LoCo founder, I'm very proud of gcleric, and extremely fortunate to have him on our team.
(04:58:58 PM) mako: gcleric: the documentation of the project is really nice.. just to have a running list of the process
(04:59:14 PM) mako: gcleric: helps provide documentation and a view into the process for folks that might want to replciate something similar in other places and with other groups
(04:59:31 PM) gcleric: our hope is to provide a template for others to follow if they wish.
(04:59:33 PM) tritium: mdke: I intend to write something up for the next LoCo team report.
(04:59:39 PM) mako: gcleric: awesome
(05:00:17 PM) mako: wow, some of these howtos look great too
(05:00:20 PM) mako: the ones on the forums
(05:00:28 PM) mdke: tritium: cool, pass it to the UWN too
(05:00:30 PM) gcleric: mako: thanks =)
(05:00:45 PM) ***mako gives a +1 for membership
(05:00:49 PM) tritium: mdke: will do, thanks.
(05:00:51 PM) mako: gcleric: keep it up! :)
(05:01:06 PM) mdke: +1 from me too, good work and welcome
(05:01:07 PM) gcleric: the mythtv converter seem real popular... =)
(05:01:35 PM) JayTee52: gotta run now, Go Hoosiers!!!!
(05:01:43 PM) MikeB: you are marked as a Gentoo user on the forums?
(05:02:07 PM) gcleric: guilty... I used to work with Daniel Robbins.
(05:02:41 PM) MikeB: lol, +1 from me
(05:03:25 PM) tritium: Obviously, if I had a vote, +1 from me.
(05:03:32 PM) mako: so i've got another meeting coming up adn we just passed the 2 hour mark..
(05:03:53 PM) greg-g: noo......
(05:04:02 PM) ***ogasawara cries
(05:04:09 PM) rick_h_: myabe 3rd time's a charm greg-g :(
(05:04:15 PM) greg-g: yeah, I can be patient
(05:04:18 PM) posingaspopular: ive never seen anyone so upset to see mako leave
(05:04:22 PM) greg-g: :)
(05:04:35 PM) tritium: So, is that a congratulations to gcleric?
(05:04:39 PM) mako: lets try to do a couple more
(05:04:43 PM) mako: warp10: you around?
(05:04:44 PM) johnc4510: sure
(05:04:46 PM) nxvl_work: wooohoooooo
(05:04:46 PM) mako: elmo on gcleric ?
(05:04:54 PM) warp10: mako: here I am
(05:05:04 PM) warp10: Hi! I am Andrea Colangelo, 27 years old from Italy. My launchpad page is at https://launchpad.net/~warp10/
(05:05:04 PM) warp10: I begun contributing to the community in May 2007, within the Italian LoCo Team. I still help there, where I am involved in CD and sticker projects (we ship Ubuntu CDs and Ubuntu stickers to people willing to get some), Ubuntu-it Press Office (the team that writes press-releases and take care of contacts with media) and Ubuntu-it screencasts (just like the worldwide Screencast Team).
(05:05:04 PM) warp10: Since October 2007 I began my yourney as MOTU contributor. My mentor pitti is driving me through this wonderful world, and so far I took care of several bugfixes and merges/syncs.  I did a couple brand new package too, and joined ubuntu-it-dev, the Italian Developer Team involved in packaging and backporting software that our Community requests.
(05:05:08 PM) warp10: Other activities I am involved in are: bugs triaging (I am a member of the Bug Control Team), ISO testing and Laptop testing.
(05:05:13 PM) warp10: My plans for the future: become MOTU, continue focusing on Debian <--> Ubuntu cooperation, improve my current activities, continue to spread the Ubuntu and FOSS verb among friends of mine and people I meet. You can find more info about me and some cheers for my application on my wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndreaColangelo
(05:05:17 PM) warp10: Thanks.
(05:05:20 PM) elmo: +1
(05:05:24 PM) totopalma: I would like to sponsor Andrea for his membership, he is a very hard worker and a good MOTU contibutor. His work on the Italian community is invaluable
(05:05:24 PM) elmo: man, I suck at keeping up
(05:05:30 PM) mako: gcleric: congrats dude
(05:05:33 PM) DktrKranz: I've seen (and sponsored) several packages made by Andrea. He's a great contributor in MOTU activities. He's also very active in bug triaging, so a big cheer from me.
(05:05:42 PM) gcleric: WhoooHooo!!! Thank you so much!!!
(05:05:43 PM) Hattory: Andrea is a very active person, he recently started to look at MOTU issues by uploading a lot of packages. I think the membership is deserved and so +1 from me... go Andrea go!
(05:05:44 PM) mako: elmo: i'm trying to push this fast :)
(05:05:53 PM) ScottK2: +1 from me too for good work in MOTU.
(05:06:08 PM) mako: warp10: ok, so you've been contribuing since october or just as a motu since october?
(05:06:10 PM) persia: I'm especially appreciative of Andrea's efforts for helping with the QA activities that so many shy from.
(05:06:43 PM) warp10: mako: since october just as a MOTU :)
(05:08:16 PM) mako: warp10: on the ord of how many cds is your italian cd shipping project sending?
(05:09:00 PM) mdke: it's limited only from the number of stickers available, I gather
(05:09:03 PM) gcleric left the room (quit: "leaving").
(05:09:05 PM) mdke: from/by
(05:09:06 PM) warp10: mako: not so many indeed. We ship about 20 per month. We expect an increase of requests for Intrepid
(05:09:30 PM) ***mako nods
(05:09:32 PM) mdke: totopalma: is that right?
(05:09:47 PM) mako: warp10: which screencasts have you made?
(05:09:54 PM) totopalma: mdke, yes :)
(05:10:22 PM) mdke: totopalma: i thought it was a lot more :(
(05:10:58 PM) warp10: mako: regarding screencast, the project has started from just a few days. I did a couple of test to fine tuning tools and procedures. We expect to start producing more, true screencast in 1 or 2 weeks.
(05:11:15 PM) mako: alright, well the testimonials are very helpful, +1 from me
(05:11:18 PM) ***mako nods to warp10 
(05:11:43 PM) mdke: it's a well documented page and having pitti among the recommendations is pretty impressive. I'm happy to +1 base on clear contributions in a number of different areas
(05:11:52 PM) mdke: thanks and keep up the good work
(05:12:13 PM) warp10: thank you mdke :)
(05:12:40 PM) mako: tyche: you're up
(05:12:43 PM) ***johnc4510 is here to cheer for tyche! w00t
(05:12:47 PM) mako: MikeB and elmo: warp10 when you get a chance
(05:12:58 PM) tyche: Hi, my name is Craig Eddy.  I am a retired draftsman.  For more information on me, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CraigAEddy or https://launchpad.net/~tyche.
(05:13:01 PM) ***boredandblogging cheers for tyche!!
(05:13:02 PM) tyche: I have been a member of the Arizona LoCo Team and the reporter for the Arizona Team newsletter, under johnc4510, since September 12, 2007, and member of and contributor on the UWN since issue #65.
(05:13:10 PM) tyche: I am active in IRC #ubuntu-us-az, and contribute bug reports and comments to launchpad, and respond on the Ubuntu Forums.
(05:13:11 PM) ***johnc4510 tyche has done outstanding work with not only the AZ LoCo Team, but also with the UWN. He also has contributed with bug reporting and forum help. He lives the Ubuntu code and is a perfect candidate for membership. I endorse him 100%.
(05:13:20 PM) MikeB: warp10: +1
(05:13:27 PM) posingaspopular: tyche tyche tyche!
(05:13:28 PM) Gwaihir_ is now known as Gwaihir
(05:13:50 PM) mdke: how is the UWN doing for contributors at the moment?
(05:14:00 PM) boredandblogging: type has done great work for the UWN and helps us get it out every week
(05:14:08 PM) boredandblogging: mdke: we need more help
(05:14:13 PM) johnc4510: yes
(05:14:20 PM) posingaspopular: tyche is also really nice and stayed up late with me every night for TWO weeks straight trying to help me install VirtualBox
(05:14:26 PM) elmo: +1
(05:14:26 PM) johnc4510: translators, and reporters, etc
(05:14:29 PM) elmo: to warp10
(05:14:48 PM) ***warp10 smiles
(05:15:53 PM) mako: alright, tyche it looks pretty good
(05:15:56 PM) posingaspopular: omg omg. i know htis is massively offtopic, but there is a toy story three in the works
(05:16:05 PM) tyche: Thanks, mako
(05:16:09 PM) johnc4510: :)
(05:16:11 PM) totopalma: warp10,  congratulations :)
(05:16:13 PM) mdke: posingaspopular: another channel please
(05:16:27 PM) warp10: thank you totopalma! ;)
(05:16:41 PM) mdke: that's a very extensively documented wiki page, and shows plenty of contribution in different areas. I'm happy in particular to see you contributing to the UWN, which is a vital resource. +1 from me
(05:16:50 PM) mdke: thanks tyche and keep it up!
(05:16:51 PM) mako: tyche: you seem have been quietly at work at a bunch of things that are often pretty thankless
(05:16:55 PM) tyche: Thanks mdke
(05:17:03 PM) mako: i especially appreciate the work you've done writing meter summaries and such
(05:17:06 PM) tyche: Yep.  But it's what I'm good at
(05:17:11 PM) johnc4510: mako: agreed
(05:17:21 PM) ***mdke nods
(05:17:23 PM) mako: i did that for ubuntu for all the core team meetings for the first six months or so
(05:17:26 PM) mako: and man, it's hard :)
(05:17:45 PM) mako: tyche: so i'm thrilled to give you a +1
(05:17:48 PM) mako: great contributions
(05:17:52 PM) tyche: Takes me about 2 hours on a sunday morning, starting about 5:00 AM
(05:17:52 PM) mako: we need more members like you
(05:17:58 PM) tyche: Thanks, mako
(05:18:11 PM) MikeB left the room (quit: "Leaving").
(05:18:23 PM) mako: oh no, mikeb is gone
(05:18:47 PM) tyche: AAAARRRRRGGG!  Hee hee
(05:18:54 PM) mdke: elmo: tyche?
(05:18:54 PM) mako: he's back :)
(05:18:56 PM) TechnoViking is now known as MikeB
(05:19:00 PM) johnc4510: yeah
(05:19:08 PM) ember_ is now known as ember
(05:19:09 PM) MikeB: xchat is killing me
(05:19:17 PM) elmo: +1
(05:19:25 PM) tyche: thanks elmo
(05:19:32 PM) MikeB: +1 for tyche
(05:19:35 PM) johnc4510: w00t  congrats tyche   newest ubuntu member
(05:19:39 PM) tyche: thanks, MikeB
(05:19:39 PM) greg-g: well done tyche
(05:19:44 PM) boredandblogging: tyche: congrats!
(05:19:55 PM) tyche: WHEW!! Thanks all, and all my supporters
(05:19:59 PM) michaelramm: tyche: grats!
(05:20:56 PM) greg-g: I'm next on the agenda, here comes the paste:
(05:21:01 PM) greg-g: Hello!  My name is Greg and I am the Founder/Leader of the Michigan LoCo Team (which was approved on Nov. 29th).
(05:21:04 PM) greg-g: My other main area of contribution, aside from leading the Michigan LoCo, is in bug triage: I am a member of the Bug Control team on LP and actively participating in the new 5-a-day program.
(05:21:09 PM) greg-g: Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GregGrossmeier  LP: https://launchpad.net/~greg.grossmeier
(05:21:12 PM) greg-g: Any questions?
(05:21:15 PM) greg-g: mako: this is Greg, the person who gave you a ride back to your hotel in Michigan :)
(05:21:20 PM) johnc4510: w00t for greg-g
(05:21:25 PM) greg-g: (if you have time that is)
(05:21:32 PM) mako: ah, hi greg-g ! :)
(05:21:35 PM) mako: thanks for the ride :)
(05:21:45 PM) greg-g: no worries, good meeting you
(05:21:52 PM) anthony: greg-g has chaired an ubuntu-us meeting that I attended, quite well, and like posingaspopular been very helpful in encouraging some of the newer teams as they get started, and giving advice to me as a new team contact.  Also, we all know about his packaging jams.  :)
(05:21:56 PM) rick_h_: ++ for greg. Been an inspiration to a bunch of us in michigan and helped setup the first packaging jam and put together a great bug jam
(05:22:34 PM) posingaspopular: anthony: pm me plz
(05:22:41 PM) boredandblogging: greg-g goes out of his way to encourage new teams
(05:22:45 PM) mdke: greg-g: what events have you been most personally involved in for your local teams?
(05:23:08 PM) greg-g: Well, the team has been doing a lot with packaging Jams
(05:23:15 PM) posingaspopular: i like greg-g, and he is awesome with the midwetri loco
(05:23:28 PM) greg-g: unfortunately I couldn't make the first one due to it being my g/f and I's 3 year anniversary :)
(05:23:32 PM) johnc4510: greg-g: is a great ubuntu member candidate and deserves recognition for all he's done
(05:23:48 PM) greg-g: mostly I am the whip behind the team
(05:24:04 PM) johnc4510: ouch
(05:24:29 PM) mdke: I'd quite like to know more about some specific contributions, just to get an idea of what stuff you do
(05:24:49 PM) mdke: what aspect of your contribution are you most proud of?
(05:25:18 PM) rick_h_: the whole michigan team was his start. He emailed some local LUG guys about putting together a team and put it through. So big credit for that
(05:25:29 PM) greg-g: oh, well.  In addition to working on planning events for the team (release parties, packaging jams) I am also currently trying to work hard on bug triaging to help with the new 5-a-day program and increase my knowledge at the same time
(05:25:46 PM) posingaspopular: mdke: greg-g is usually the one who gets all the details together for the midwest tri-loco team meetings, irc chan time etc.
(05:25:52 PM) greg-g: I am most proud of the fact that the Michigan team was the first team to host a pacakaging Jam and started a trend :)
(05:28:39 PM) greg-g: any other details you would like to know?
(05:29:08 PM) mdke: greg-g: what was your personal involvement in the packaging jam initiative?
(05:29:27 PM) mdke: I can tell you're a team player but I'm just trying to get a grip of some of your individual contributions :)
(05:29:35 PM) greg-g: mdke: planning.  Since I was unable to attend due to the anniversary conflict
(05:30:24 PM) greg-g: also, the coordination of the team's efforts for our presence at Penguicon
(05:30:38 PM) greg-g: which is an ongoing topic at our meetings of course
(05:31:22 PM) greg-g: (our activities will include a room party with demos of Hardy, which will be release 1 week after the con)
(05:31:41 PM) mdke: cool. Ok, well I think that the leader of a well organised and effective team deserves recognition and I think that even if it's not 100% spelt out on your wiki page, your contribution is clear
(05:31:49 PM) mdke: +1 from me, let's see what others think
(05:31:53 PM) greg-g: thankyou mdke
(05:31:58 PM) MikeB: +1 here
(05:32:19 PM) elmo: +1
(05:33:06 PM) nxvl_work: mako: greg-g
(05:34:00 PM) nxvl_work: mdke: can i go while mako shows up?
(05:34:09 PM) nxvl_work: mdke: i'm the next on the agenda
(05:34:12 PM) mdke: nxvl_work: ok
(05:34:20 PM) nxvl_work: I'm Nicolas Valcarcel from Lima Perú, i'm member of the Peruvian LoCo Council, and have been involved difusion since 2003, and then i focused myself on Ubuntu, i have gave many talks in local conferences, some workshops at my univesrity and the last months working with the LoCo team making some work on conferences, also i have participate on the Ubuntu Developer Week as a speaker in one talk and co-speaker on another, and contributing to MOTU and
(05:34:20 PM) nxvl_work: Server Team fixing some bugs, traging some others and helping new contributors on what i can. I'm also been recently aproved on the pentesting team and invited to the UDS.
(05:34:26 PM) nxvl_work: My LP page is: https://edge.launchpad.net/~nvalcarcel
(05:34:32 PM) nxvl_work: And my wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Nxvl
(05:34:39 PM) nxvl_work: my plan is to become a MOTU in a shot time
(05:34:39 PM) mako: well, i'm happy with a +1 based on your work with the michigan team
(05:34:44 PM) mako: alright this i my last one :)
(05:34:51 PM) greg-g: thanks mako
(05:34:53 PM) boredandblogging: greg-g: congrats!
(05:35:02 PM) nxvl_work: i also want to look for the security aspects on the server team
(05:35:02 PM) greg-g: thanks everyone!
(05:35:04 PM) johnc4510: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers
(05:35:11 PM) johnc4510: oops
(05:35:11 PM) mdke: yes I think nxvl_work is the last one
(05:35:13 PM) johnc4510: lol
(05:35:22 PM) johnc4510: greg-g: congrats :)
(05:35:28 PM) ember: mdke i'm here too
(05:35:51 PM) nxvl_work: i'm also interested in make ubuntu community better and nicer for starters
(05:36:05 PM) mdke: ember: I'm afraid we have to draw the line somewhere - the meeting has gone on for too long now
(05:36:07 PM) nxvl_work: so they found a warm, nice and helpful community
(05:36:30 PM) ***ScottK2 gives a big +1 for nxvl_work for both his MOTU and server team work.
(05:37:08 PM) norsetto: nxvl_work is a great contributor, helpful and positive, +1, go for it nxvl!
(05:37:26 PM) ScottK2: nxvl_work is someone I can reliably turn to if I need help with something I don't have time to complete by myself.
(05:37:51 PM) mdke: ok nxvl_work has some good recommendations on the wiki page and has clearly done some good work on the development side. good number of patches
(05:37:56 PM) mdke: +1 from me
(05:37:57 PM) mako: ember: sorry, it's almost 3 hours now.  i understand you've waited that long too but as mdke says, we have draw the line
(05:38:00 PM) ***mako nods to mdke 
(05:38:03 PM) mako: +1 from me as well
(05:38:06 PM) MikeB: +1 here
(05:38:09 PM) mako: i eneded up reviewing nxvl_work last week
(05:38:14 PM) mako: and was impressed on his ubuntu contributions
(05:38:29 PM) mako: elmo: end the meeting :)
(05:38:38 PM) elmo: +1
(05:38:43 PM) nbliang: can we have the next meeting at a later time than 20:00 UTC? have to wait at around 4am (my time) for the meeting
(05:39:15 PM) mako: nbliang: or much ealier
(05:39:21 PM) mako: so it would be before you go to sleep
(05:39:24 PM) elmo: oh!
(05:39:27 PM) elmo: one tiny last thing
(05:39:31 PM) mako: yes?
(05:39:33 PM) nbliang: ok
(05:39:37 PM) nbliang: mako: thx
(05:39:43 PM) elmo: we breifly discussed changing the team to restricted and pointing folks at the howto-join page
(05:39:48 PM) mako: nbliang: we'll have it at a different time
(05:39:53 PM) elmo: is everyone ok with that?
(05:39:57 PM) mako: elmo: yes, it sounds like a great plan
(05:39:58 PM) elmo: to stop the applications piling up
(05:40:07 PM) mdke: yes, definitely a good thing to clean up the members list
(05:40:14 PM) nxvl_work: thank you all
(05:40:18 PM) ***nxvl_work HUGS evetyone
(05:40:29 PM) MikeB: elmo, works for me
(05:40:34 PM) mako: brilliant
(05:40:37 PM) mako: thanks everyone who came
(05:40:43 PM) nbliang: thanks...
(05:40:46 PM) mako: ESPECIALLY thanks to everyone who was patient and we didn't get to
(05:40:46 PM) ScottK2 left the room ("Konversation terminated!").
(05:40:51 PM) nbliang: will wai for the next meeting than
(05:40:52 PM) janquark: :)
(05:41:10 PM) mako: we made good progress.. and we've got a new process we're going to implement very soon that will fix this
(05:41:15 PM) mako: nobody will wait more than a couple weeks
(05:41:23 PM) mako: thanks again!
(05:41:27 PM) mdke: I'll echo that
(05:41:33 PM) posingaspopular: thanks to all the members who showed up and voted +1 and for the long meeting :P
(05:41:47 PM) mdke: good night all
(05:41:53 PM) posingaspopular: mako: keep the blogs strong
</pre>
