{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** None
* V Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====

* <smb> I did a few stable uploads for Xen in Utopic and Trusty. Though zul, you may want to hold back doing cloud-archive versions. There is more to come. ;) Also from some email report on xen-devel there are a few things missing to make openstack and xen a better experience (bug #1396068 and bug #1394327 at least). I am working on getting things applied and SRUed.

===== Meeting Actions =====

** matsubara to chase someone that can update release bugs report: http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Dec 2nd at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. kickinz1 will chair.

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:01 <matsubara> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov 25 16:01:03 2014 UTC.  The chair is matsubara. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:01 <meetingology> 

 16:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:01 <matsubara> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:01 <matsubara> no action from last meeting

 16:01 <matsubara> btw, who's here today? :-)

 16:01 <coreycb> o/

 16:01 <smb> o/

 16:01 <caribou> matsubara: o/

 16:01 <gnuoy> o/

 16:02 <arges> o/

 16:03 <sforshee> o/

 16:03 <matsubara> jamespage, beisner: hi

 16:03 <beisner> o/

 16:03 <beisner> hi matsubara!

 16:04 <matsubara> ok, I guess we have enough of us here. Apologies from Pat, smoser, RyanH and Serge as they're on vacation

 16:04 <matsubara> #topic Vivid Development

 16:04 <matsubara> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule

 16:05 <matsubara> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:05 <matsubara> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:05 <matsubara> Hmm that's a 404, who can update that report?

 16:05 <matsubara> #action matsubara to chase someone that can update release bugs report: http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:05 * meetingology matsubara to chase someone that can update release bugs report: http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:06 <matsubara> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:06 <matsubara> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html

 16:06 <matsubara> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server

 16:06 <matsubara> I guess after the cloud sprint last week people will be updating those blueprints

 16:06 <matsubara> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:07 <matsubara> caribou, anything from you?

 16:07 <caribou> not much here

 16:07 <matsubara> caribou, ok. thanks!

 16:07 <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:07 <psivaa> nothing much from us :)

 16:07 <matsubara> psivaa, you? maybe you know who can update reports.qa.ubuntu.com?

 16:08 <psivaa> matsubara: i have been doing so far

 16:09 <matsubara> psivaa, ah, cool. Looks like the report for vivid ( http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server) is not up yet.

 16:09 <psivaa> matsubara: that could be someone from QA team i suppose

 16:09 <matsubara> psivaa, I'll look into that after the meeting then. Thanks!

 16:09 <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:09 <smb> I did a few stable uploads for Xen in Utopic and Trusty. Though zul, you may want to hold back doing cloud-archive versions. There is more to come. ;) Also from some email report on xen-devel there are a few things missing to make openstack and xen a better experience (bug #1396068 and bug #1394327 at least). I am working on getting things applied and SRUed. Other than that I have nothing.

 16:09 <psivaa> matsubara: would you mind following this up with jfunk

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1396068 in xen (Ubuntu Utopic) "[Xen/xl] dom0 needs to run qemu for qcow access" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1396068

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1394327 in qemu (Ubuntu Trusty) "unmapping of persistent grants in qemu" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1394327

 16:10 <matsubara> psivaa, will do. thanks for the pointer

 16:10 <matsubara> thanks for the report smb

 16:10 <zul> smb: ack

 16:10 <matsubara> hi zul

 16:10 <zul> hey matsubara

 16:10 <matsubara> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:11 <matsubara> I don't see anything in the calendar

 16:11 <matsubara> Any events soon?

 16:12 <matsubara> It was coreycb birthday last Friday. Happy birthday coreycb!

 16:12 <coreycb> thanks matsubara !

 16:12 <matsubara> ok, let's move on.

 16:12 <matsubara> #topic Open Discussion

 16:12 <matsubara> anything server related topics?

 16:12 <matsubara> 3

 16:12 <matsubara> 2

 16:12 <matsubara> 1

 16:13 <matsubara> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:13 <matsubara> so, next meeting same day, same hour, next week. Chair will be kickinz1

 16:14 <Kick> ok, thanks matsubara.

 16:14 <beisner> thanks matsubara

 16:14 <matsubara> that's Dec 2nd at 1600UTC

 16:14 <beisner> Kick, no pressure ;)

 16:14 <gnuoy> thanks matsubara

 16:14 <caribou> thanks matsubara

 16:14 <matsubara> thank y'all for joining!

 16:14 <Kick> ;)

 16:14 <matsubara> #endmeeting
</pre>
