{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

11:03  Riddell  hi all, who's here?

  11:03  freeflying  @schedule Shanghai

  11:03  Ubugtu  Schedule for Asia/Shanghai: Current meeting: Kubuntu | 16 May 20:00: Community Council | 17 May 20:00: Edubuntu | 18 May 22:00: Ubuntu Development Team | 25 May 04:00: Edubuntu | 26 May 04:00: Ubuntu Development Team

  11:03  freeflying  Riddell: hi

  11:03  kwwii  hi all

  11:03  freeflying  kwwii: hi

  11:03  Lure  hi 

  11:04  uniq  hi.

  11:04  Riddell  most important agenda item this evening is that I have a pot of soup on the boil and you must remind me to turn it off in half an hour so it doesn't boil dry

  11:04  gringo  ^^

  11:04  kmon  lol

  11:04  Tonio_  hey

  11:04  Lure  Riddell: I do not see it here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu/Meetings ;-)

  11:05  kwwii  we could form a submeeting to discuss these issues and get back to you later

  11:06  Riddell  shall we get started?

  11:06  Lure  I think so

  11:06  Tonio_  yup

  === Tonio_ takes a coffee

  11:06  Riddell  the feeling at linuxtag was that we should have a kubuntu council

  11:07  Riddell  who would approve membership and take decisions at meetings

  11:07  Riddell  any thoughts on that?

  11:07  Lure  I think it is most appropriate thing to do

  11:08  uniq  i agree.

  11:08  Riddell  groovy

  11:08  Lure  edubuntu already have one, with monthly meetings for membership/community considerations

  11:08  freeflying  Riddell: what's the number will be 

  11:08  Riddell  I propose we follow the example of edubuntu who have 5 people, at least 1 canonical employee but not more than 2

  11:08  Lure  and 3 needed to support

  11:09  Lure  (vote)

  11:09  Riddell  yes

  11:09  freeflying  we now onlt you are paid employee

  11:09  freeflying  s/onlt/only

  11:09  Riddell  yes, for now

  11:10  Riddell  so next question is how to choose the members

  11:10  Tonio_  I agree following the example of edubuntu is a nice idea

  11:10  Lure  just collect candidates

  11:10  Riddell  we could also try and have a vote on launchpad but I've no idea how well that would work

  11:11  Riddell  maybe we should try candidates and if we have lots we can work out some sort of vote

  11:11  uniq  good idea.

  11:11  kmon  maybe create a list like kubuntu-announcements and use that as a way to tell people a poll has been created on launchpad?

  11:11  Riddell  so, who wants to stand?

  11:12  uniq  1 year mandates?

  11:12  Tonio_  Riddell: raphink isn't here, but I'm certain he would like to

  11:12  Riddell  kmon: kubuntu-devel is good enough I think

  11:12  Riddell  uniq: sounds good

  11:12  Riddell  I'll stand for it

  11:12  freeflying  Riddell: at least ,you  shall descide the candidates

  === Lure proposes obvious candidates: raphink, Tonio_, Hobbsee

  11:12  kmon  Riddell: if kubuntu grows it may be needed in the future... but I agree now it's not necesary
 
  11:13  Riddell  I'd like Tonio_ to stand too

  11:13  Tonio_  Riddell: I'm standing ;)

  11:13  Riddell  hobbsee would be cool, although I think she might need some persuading

  11:14  Riddell  so I say I put out an announcement, and if we have too many candidates we can vote on it

  11:14  Lure  we need somebody who is actie on #kubuntu - this is why I think Hobbsee is good candidate

  11:14  freeflying  raphink: Tonio_  hobbsee

  11:14  Riddell  Lure: very true

  11:14  Riddell  and by next meeting we should have a kommittee

  11:15  raphink  hi

  11:15  Lure  we will need more irc help in future since Dapper will rock ;-)

  11:15  raphink  sorry for being late

  11:15  Riddell  hi raphink 

  11:15  Lure  raphink: we just elected you ;-)

  11:15  raphink  ah

  === Lure is kidding

  11:15  raphink  for what?

  11:15  raphink  ;)

  11:15  Riddell  for the kubuntu council

  11:15  Tonio_  raphink: cellphones nice sometimes ;)

  11:15  Tonio_  +are

  11:15  raphink  Tonio_: indeed :)

  11:15  raphink  I was just fighting with Ooo

  11:15  raphink  anyway, offtopic ;)

  11:16  Riddell  raphink: any comments on the council or shall we move on?

  11:16  raphink  I'll read very fast

  11:16  Lure  I would also like maybe somebody in council that is strong background in KDE (besides Riddell)

  11:16  Tonio_  Lure: only 5 names have been proposed at the moment, aren't you interested to stand for that too ?

  11:16  Riddell  Lure: yes that would be nice, I did ask danimo but he's too busy

  11:16  Tonio_  Riddell: toma maybe ?

  11:16  Lure  allee?

  11:16  Lure  or toma?

  11:16  Lure  true

  11:17  Riddell  good names

  11:17  toma  ola

  11:17  toma  whats up?

  11:17  raphink  what exactly would be the role of the council?

  11:17  Riddell  toma: want to be our KDE representative on the council?

  11:17  toma  wow, you are surprising me here

  11:17  Riddell  raphink: approving membership, and making decisions on other stuff at meeting that are needed

  11:17  raphink  I'm fine for this

  11:18  raphink  I mean I'm ok to be part of it if I'm proposed ;)

  11:18  Riddell  allee would be good for his links to debian

  11:18  raphink  yes true

  11:18  Tonio_  Riddell: +

  11:19  Riddell  ok, lets move on, we can sort out the members before the next meeting

  11:19  Riddell  freeflying: your item :)

  11:19  Riddell  hmm, freeflying has fallen back asleep

  11:19  freeflying  I haven't commnets on flight7 at all :) 

  11:19  Lure  Riddell: will you invite formally the proposed people to confirm that they would accept the possition?

  11:19  toma  Riddell: what would that mean?

  11:20  Riddell  toma: being on the council?  just means you need to turn up to meeting to approve members and vote on things that come to a vote

  11:20  toma  Riddell: I think kubuntu will be very important for KDE, so I'm not sure I'm the most perfect person to have within KDE.

  11:21  Riddell  toma: nonsense, you'll be perfect

  11:21  Lure  toma: we just need an active KDE person that is also active/follows Kubuntu on regular basis

  11:21  Tonio_  toma: there aren't dozens of kde developpers activelly talking on kubuntu-devel ;)

  11:21  raphink  toma: you're a very good link with KDE for us

  11:21  Lure  Tonio_: +1

  11:21  raphink  very valuable

  11:21  toma  Riddell: I'm no eV member anymore, dont know if that matters

  11:21  freeflying  toma: +1

  11:21  Riddell  nah, nothing interesting happens on e.v. anyway

  11:21  Tonio_  toma: you where one of the firsts with danimo

  11:22  Riddell  except slagging off gnome of course

  11:22  kmon  this kubuntu council will be similar to ubuntu community council right?

  11:22  Riddell  kmon: yes

  11:22  toma  wow, and i feel guilty for not having done anything spectuclar yet for kubuntu.

  11:22  kmon  and what about the technical board? are you Riddell part of it?

  11:22  freeflying  toma: you will :)

  11:22  toma  haha

  11:22  raphink  toma: you have

  11:22  raphink  :)

  11:22  Lure  toma: rsibreak helps me... ;-)

  11:23  Riddell  kmon: I'm not on the ubuntu tech board.  the kubuntu council would take votes on tech decisions too if that was helpful

  11:23  raphink  kmon: the kubuntu TB will be decided in Paris if any

  === Tonio_ reminds Riddell that his soup will be ready in 10 minutes

  11:23  kmon  ok, nice. Thanks raphink, Riddell

  11:23  raphink  if I understood what Mark said last time

  11:23  Riddell  Tonio_: thanks :)

  11:23  Tonio_  Riddell: ^_^

  11:23  Riddell  so, anyone tried flight 7

  11:24  Riddell  and has anyone tried ubiquity most importantly

  11:24  Tonio_  Riddell: I did, and there are not that much killer bugs actually

  === raphink is up-to-date but doesn't try installing 

  11:24  kwwii  Riddell: I was impressed with Ubiquity

  11:24  Lure  Riddell: I did... ;-)

  11:24  kwwii  it worked great in German and looked pretty good, all things considered

  11:24  Riddell  kwwii: did you do an install with it?

  11:24  Riddell  Lure: did you install with it?

  === kmon is up to date, but don't have a spare computer to try live installer

  11:24  raphink  ubiquity still misses the map for the time settings, doesn't it?

  11:24  kwwii  the partioner interface was not very nice though at first

  11:24  kwwii  Riddell: yes, 

  11:24  toma  you guys are great, I can try, but I prefer a first period of six months, so if I suck you can get rid of me and if i dont like it, I can leave... Is that something?

  11:25  Riddell  toma: sure, that's fine

  11:25  Lure  Riddell: yes, and with couple of dailys before and after Flight 7

  11:25  kwwii  raphink: it complains about the hardware time everytime it boots

  11:25  Riddell  excellent, that's the first successful reports I've heard from ubiquity :)

  11:25  Lure  Riddell: I think you have managed to nail all/most critical ones (crashes and stuff)

  11:25  raphink  :)

  11:25  Tonio_  Riddell: ubiquity worked for me, but I tested on a blank disk...

  11:25  raphink  kwwii: what complains?

  11:25  Riddell  I still need to fix some of the logic on the mountpoints page, and I'll try the map this weekend but it's not a priority

  11:26  kwwii  raphink: the installed system

  11:26  raphink  ah

  11:26  raphink  that's pretty bad

  11:26  kwwii  there are lots of endianess problems 

  11:26  kwwii  pretty much all screenshot functions and several apps are effected

  11:26  Riddell  flight 8 is next week so please everyone test ubiquity because if it's broken on the final CD that's a lot of useless shipit CDs we'll have

  11:26  Tonio_  Riddell: I will

  11:26  raphink  ok

  11:27  Riddell  oh and testers for flight 8 candidates very welcome too of course, around wednesday

  === Lure is out next week :-(

  11:27  Riddell  toma: your item

  11:27  Riddell  or did we do this last meeting?

  11:27  toma  we did it last meeting, not sure why it ended up this meeting

  11:28  Riddell  nobody wiped the agenda is why

  11:28  toma  i dont think we need to repeat it

  11:28  toma  next item

  11:28  Riddell  I've still not had time to do the list of things for new developers but I'd still like to at some point soon

  11:28  Riddell  allee here?

  11:28  kmon  Riddell: soup

  11:28  raphink  lol

  11:28  Riddell  arg!  my soup!

  11:28  kwwii  Riddell: two more minutes!

  11:28  toma  Riddell: untill k3m, i dont have time anyways. allee has not responded to my calls.

  11:29  kwwii  you said half an hour

  11:29  Tonio_  kmon: 4 minutes left for the soup AFAIK ;)

  11:29  toma  move it to later on, he'll be back

  11:29  Riddell  allee seems to be suggesting renaming kubuntu, which is probably not a good idea

  11:29  Riddell  Lure: your item

  11:30  Lure  who will be in Paris and what is to be expected from this event in regards to Kubuntu?

  11:30  raphink  I will almost certainly be in Paris

  11:30  Tonio_  Lure: I will since I am :)

  11:30  raphink  and there are many things to be decided there

  11:30  Riddell  we need to plan for Edgy!

  11:30  raphink  :)

  11:30  Riddell  all ideas welcome, please put them on https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuFutureIdeas

  11:31  raphink  keeping in mind that Edgy will be a 4 month release

  11:31  raphink  which means lots of work in a short time

  11:31  Lure  Mark mentioed KDE developers - is this already confirmed?

  11:31  raphink  yes it is Lure

  11:31  raphink  it has been talked about at LinuxTag

  11:31  Riddell  Lure: yes, we'll have a bunch of kde people there

  11:31  raphink  together with KDE people

  11:31  kmon  For paris summit I think you guys should propose which kde devs/people should be proposed to be invited by mark

  11:31  raphink  they have to appoint about 5 people to come there

  11:31  Riddell  kwwii, ervin, ellen, aseigo

  11:32  Lure  this sounds great\

  11:32  raphink  very nice

  11:32  kwwii  great, now I am on the kde list?

  11:32  Riddell  oh and sebas of course

  11:32  Riddell  kwwii: yes

  11:32  kwwii  hehe, ok...be prepared for oxygen :-)

  11:32  raphink  kwwii: :p

  11:32  raphink  yeah :)

  11:32  raphink  we need oxygen in Paris ;)

  11:32  raphink  esp. in the summer, with pollution peaks

  11:32  Riddell  I believe canonical will be willing to fund people working on shiny bling graphic things

  11:33  raphink  mhm

  11:33  DaSkreech2  What about SOC?

  11:33  Riddell  so if anyone hears of any projects like that let me know

  11:33  kwwii  raphink: oxygen will be releseased on week before paris

  11:33  Riddell  DaSkreech2: put it on the agenda

  11:33  raphink  kwwii: great

  11:33  Riddell  kwwii: oh?

  11:33  kwwii  s/on/one

  11:33  DaSkreech2  !agenda

  11:33  Riddell  now that's exciting

  11:33  Riddell  https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Meetings

  11:33  kwwii  Riddell: we are meeting in port. for a week to get things ready

  11:33  Riddell  portugal?

  11:34  kwwii  yepp, at nunos houes

  11:34  kwwii  house

  11:34  Riddell  wow, excellent

  11:34  raphink  :)

  11:34  Riddell  I wonder what colour the folders will be, that's the exciting bit

  11:34  kwwii  orange!

  11:35  kwwii  no, blue, as usual

  11:35  Tonio_  Riddell: I just hope less blue this time ;)

  11:35  raphink  hehe

  11:35  Tonio_  arghhhhhhhh

  11:35  Riddell  kmon: do you have suggestions of developers?

  11:35  Tonio_  kwwii: :'(

  11:35  kmon  Riddell: I think the one's you've mentioned are great

  === Lure is already tired of blue and hates to have custom theme ;-(

  11:36  kmon  specially if people from different parts of KDE are involved (coding, marketing, etc)

  11:36  Tonio_  Lure: yes, I agree

  11:36  DaSkreech2  Oh

  11:36  Riddell  do we know who K2 is?

  11:36  raphink  I don't

  11:36  Tonio_  Riddell: nope

  11:36  DaSkreech2  Have the System settings usable with the keyboad

  11:36  raphink  and he's not here

  11:36  DaSkreech2  keyboard

  11:36  Riddell  whoever he is, he's put his item on the wrong meeting agenda, we don't really do linux module issues here

  11:36  raphink  DaSkreech2: that'd have to be for edgy

  11:36  DaSkreech2  ok

  11:37  raphink  so... newsletters?

  11:37  raphink  what do you mean by that Riddell?

  11:37  Riddell  so my item, matt suggested I make newsletters of the week's happenings in kubuntu and post them out

  11:37  raphink  emails? blog ? 

  11:37  Riddell  e-mail to the lists

  11:37  raphink  ok

  11:37  raphink  could be nice

  11:37  raphink  what would it feature?

  11:37  Riddell  nothing too long, just a quick summary of where we are and what's planned to work on

  11:37  Lure  I think blog would be better (more visibility)

  11:38  raphink  new features / bugs / new contributors / events in the community / events in the world

  11:38  Riddell  raphink: stuff we've all done, people who have done it, top bug fixer of the week, whatever

  11:38  raphink  ok

  11:38  Riddell  yes, you've got the idea :)

  11:38  raphink  I agree with lure though

  11:38  raphink  a blog would be more visible

  11:38  uniq  have to go, gnite.

  11:38  raphink  or using kubuntu.org with a news section

  11:38  Tonio_  uniq: nite

  11:38  raphink  and sending it to the ML in addition

  11:38  Riddell  ubuntu-devel-announce gets a lot of publicity

  11:38  DaSkreech2  Riddell: would that be for users or developers?

  11:38  raphink  night uniq

  11:39  Riddell  and if I link from kubuntu.org that brings in more

  11:39  Riddell  DaSkreech2: developers and interested users

  11:39  Lure  news is too official, and blog can be more free-writing

  11:39  DaSkreech2  True but there can be a chain :)

  11:39  freeflying  blog and ML

  11:39  DaSkreech2  One leads to the other

  11:39  Riddell  so I'll be poking people to remind me of what's happened in the last week

  11:39  DaSkreech2  People can stop at the level of involvement they want to get into

  11:40  kmon  Riddell: similar to debian weekly news?

  11:40  kmon  nice

  11:40  Riddell  kmon: probably not as long or formal, but along those lines yes

  11:40  kmon  th desktop team do something similar AFAIK, but gnome based

  11:40  Riddell  yes, launchpad does too

  11:41  Riddell  although I've never seen more than one

  11:41  Riddell  ok, agenda over

  11:41  raphink  I've got a point to add to the meeting although it's not on the agenda

  11:41  raphink  which is translations

  11:41  Riddell  DaSkreech2 was first

  11:41  Lure  Riddell: any bugs that we are concerned with?

  11:41  raphink  ok sure

  11:41  Lure  (must-fix and stuff)

  11:41  raphink  go on DaSkreech2

  11:41  DaSkreech2   I am?

  11:41  Riddell  DaSkreech2: you were asking about summer of code?

  11:42  DaSkreech2  Right

  11:42  Tonio_  raphink: I pinged pitti yesterday, he will release new language packs this week

  11:42  Riddell  just asking the status in general?

  11:42  DaSkreech2  You were looking for developers for KDE4 stuff

  11:42  DaSkreech2   You emntioned oxygen

  11:42  raphink  new language packs are out already Tonio_, and it doesn't fix the menus

  11:42  DaSkreech2  I was noticing on the SOC page there were quite a few KDE4 specific things under kubuntu

  11:42  DaSkreech2  mentioned

  11:43  Riddell  DaSkreech2: I wasn't looking for kde 4 developers, I was looking for shiny bling things we can do in edgy (4 months time, too soon for kde 4)

  11:43  Riddell  I never put half the kubuntu SoC ideas on the wiki page there

  11:43  Tonio_  raphink: do they ? I didn't update today

  11:43  DaSkreech2  Ah ok So things like the compiz/KDE (also SOC) ?

  11:43  Riddell  I don't know who did

  11:43  Riddell  DaSkreech2: yes

  11:44  Tonio_  Riddell: so yes, we have one killer bug to fix before release ;)

  11:44  DaSkreech2  Where dod we want the blingy things? In art or in the tech?

  11:44  Riddell  we've had a good number of SoC applications, I've no idea how many we'll get in the end

  11:44  DaSkreech2  do

  11:44  Riddell  DaSkreech2: both

  11:44  kmon  Riddell: I think good SOC proyects could be to develop apps missing in kubuntu from ubuntu (like a qt/kde frontend to gdebi)

  11:44  Tonio_  raphink: btw it works for some languages like german, the translation doesn't bug on that point

  11:44  Riddell  kmon: our top project so far is for an OEM installer

  11:44  Riddell  insanekane said he'd look at gdebi for qt

  11:45  kmon  nice

  11:45  Riddell  Tonio_: killer bug being translations?

  11:45  raphink  Tonio_: sorry, its language-support-* that were released today, not language-pack-*-data

  11:45  Tonio_  Version: 1:6.06+20060427

  11:45  Riddell  Tonio_: please check that the missing translations are indeed now in rosetta under kdelibs.po

  11:45  Tonio_  raphink: yes, new packs aren't still built

  11:46  raphink  right, let's wait then :)

  11:46  Riddell  raphink: is that your translation item dealt with?

  11:46  Tonio_  Riddell: rosetta is complete, and your have supposedly corrected the kdelibs bug

  11:46  Riddell  Tonio_: great

  11:46  raphink  taking about translations

  11:46  Tonio_  Riddell: we have to look carefully for updates and check if that will resolve the issue

  11:46  raphink  I was playing with zeroconf today

  11:46  freeflying  Riddell: there still many pos of kde stuff not on rosetta

  11:46  DaSkreech2  Riddell: Oh just to be clear this is a edgy type meeting or just a kubuntu future in general?

  11:46  raphink  and noticed that it uses kind of desktop files that have to be translated

  11:47  Riddell  DaSkreech2: the Paris summit is an edgy meeting

  11:47  Tonio_  the problem is it would be nice to have the response quickly, and not discovering 3 days before release that the bug is still there

  11:47  DaSkreech2  ok

  11:47  Riddell  DaSkreech2: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/UbuntuDeveloperSummitParis

  11:47  Riddell  raphink: desktop files are a pain for translation

  11:47  raphink  yes I guess

  11:47  Tonio_  Riddell: definitly

  === kmon hopes Riddell has turned off the boiling soup

  11:47  raphink  the best might be to have them translated upstream

  11:47  Riddell  raphink: in gnome, ubuntu now has a patch that allows desktop files to take translations from .po files

  11:48  Tonio_  Riddell: that could be an interesting launchpad addon -> desktop files online translation

  11:48  Riddell  raphink: I didn't have time to do that for kubuntu but I'd like to for edgy

  11:48  Tonio_  Riddell: don't you think ?

  11:48  raphink  ok

  11:48  Riddell  Tonio_: tell carlos :)

  11:48  Tonio_  Riddell: in paris, in paris ;)

  11:49  Riddell  Lure: you were talking about bugs?

  11:49  Tonio_  raphink: I will ping pitti once more for langpacks if there are no updates on sunday evening

  11:49  raphink  ok

  11:49  Tonio_  raphink: and concerning the livecd, french is supposed to come back according to what Riddell told me yesterday

  11:49  Lure  Riddell: yes - anyhting that needs to be fixed and we do not see it in pile of open bugs?

  11:49  raphink  Tonio_: I was talking about the files like _ssh._tcp . I don't know how they are to be translated in KDE

  11:49  Riddell  Tonio_: should be on now

  11:49  raphink  Tonio_: great

  11:50  Tonio_  Riddell: great

  11:50  DaSkreech2  Well I'm done with my part then

  11:50  DaSkreech2  The next section may have the floor

  11:50  Tonio_  raphink: yes, xml based and desktop files are a pain to translate...

  11:50  Riddell  Lure: I need to look at making sure chaning timezones works, I know it hasn't in the past and I don't think it's changed

  11:50  raphink  talking about bugs, I'm happy to say that Korganizer works again since last week

  11:50  DaSkreech2  Although I could raise my System settings irks :-)

  11:50  Tonio_  raphink: could be interesting to discuss that in paris

  11:51  Lure  Riddell: changing TZ where?

  11:51  Riddell  Lure: I've heard that KMail filters don't work, having someone to confirm that would be good

  11:51  Tonio_  and make zeroconf-scripts-* packages or something

  11:51  Riddell  Lure: right click on clock->configure clock

  11:51  Tonio_  raphink: don't you think ?

  11:51  Riddell  Lure: it used not to save the new value when you rebooted

  11:51  raphink  Tonio_: well we'd need more protocol files, translated in various languages, and avahi default config files

  11:51  raphink  but that's for dapper I guess

  11:51  raphink  s/dapper/edgy/

  11:52  Lure  Riddell: I can check KMail filters - is there a bug?

  11:52  Tonio_  raphink: yes I was talking about edgy btw

  11:52  raphink  ok

  11:52  Lure  but I am in only tommorow then back next Sat...

  11:52  Riddell  Lure: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdepim/+bug/39944

  11:52  Tonio_  raphink: we will need to come to paris with plans and structure to propose for a correct zeroconf implementation

  11:52  Ubugtu  Malone bug 39944 in kdepim "Set filters are ineffective" [Normal,Needs info]  

  11:52  Riddell  any other business?

  11:52  raphink  yes Tonio_

  11:52  Tonio_  raphink: nothing impossible as long as we "think" it correctly

  11:53  raphink  Tonio_: there should be a spec for it

  11:53  Tonio_  raphink: true

  11:53  raphink  Riddell: well I think that's it

  11:53  Tonio_  Riddell: ust a little question since you are close to kde

  11:54  Riddell  hmm?

  11:54  raphink  Tonio_: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/zeroconf

  11:54  Tonio_  Riddell: one of the priorities for edgy will be compiz integration within xgl or aiglx

  11:54  Riddell  Tonio_: that would be cool, although I don't know who could do it, I should talk to zrusin

  11:54  Tonio_  and AFAIK, there are very little chances that the kde-window-decorator will work

  11:54  allee  hi, uh, meeting not 22.00 UTC as in wiki :(  sorry

  11:54  kwwii  zack is working for trolltech 100a100gain

  11:55  Tonio_  Riddell: zack didn't touch the cvs for 2 month....

  11:55  Riddell  yes, kwin integration has been problematic I believe

  11:55  kwwii  funky, where did the 100's come from

  11:55  Lure  allee: :( - wiki was wrong....

  11:55  Tonio_  so if we can't implement it, that will make a hudge difference will ubuntu

  11:55  allee  SHIT

  11:55  kwwii  that's ok, we voted you out

  11:55  Riddell  hi allee, sorry the wiki wasn't updated properly

  11:56  Riddell  allee: fancy being on the kubuntu council?

  11:56  freeflying  Riddell: when will be the next meeting?

  11:56  Riddell  that's a good question

  11:57  freeflying  I'd update the meetingsagenda now

  11:57  Riddell  maybe week after release

  11:57  allee  fine with me.  But I'm not sure if I'm online enought to know and judge new peoples work.  You decide

  11:57  Riddell  8th june?

  11:57  freeflying  Riddell: seems too long, how about one weeks after RC1

  11:57  Tonio_  Riddell: should we make a latest one just a week before release in case we miss something ?

  11:58  allee  Tonio_: makes sense

  11:58  Riddell  1 week after RC is final release night :)

  11:58  Lure  Riddell: I think meeting every two weeks would be approprite

  11:58  Tonio_  Riddell: 1 day after rc1 release :)

  11:58  raphink  good for me

  11:58  Riddell  friday 26th?

  11:58  freeflying  Riddell: then May, 21

  11:58  Tonio_  Riddell: good for me

  11:58  Tonio_  although I may not be there...

  11:58  kwwii  the 26th is bad for me

  11:58  Lure  Firday is bad day for meetings

  11:58  kwwii  flying to port

  11:59  toma  vote allee++

  11:59  Riddell  monday 29th?

  11:59  kmon  Tonio_: suse 10.1 has just been released and they claim xgl support, maybe someone should take a look at how they do it for kde

  11:59  Riddell  freeflying: 21st is a weekend

  11:59  Tonio_  kmon: they do use gnome-window-decorator :)

  11:59  Riddell  kmon: I've a feeling they just use gnome window manager

  11:59  Tonio_  kmon: I asked during linuxtag

  11:59  kmon  Tonio_: :(

  11:59  allee  Riddell: too late I'm in holidays starting 26 ;)

  11:59  raphink  kmon: xgl won't be in dapper

  11:59  raphink  by default that is

  11:59  raphink  ;)

  12:00  raphink  and it's good this way

  12:00  raphink  :)

  12:00  freeflying  Riddell: then 22 st, then we have more then one week before release

  12:00  kmon  raphink: I think ubuntu devs don't want to go with xgl

  12:00  Tonio_  kmon: aiglx is more probable, since it is much easier to integrate

  12:00  allee  freeflying: ++

  12:00  Riddell  we could have it on 25th and just hope the RC is done by that time

  12:00  Riddell  freeflying: seems quite soon

  12:00  kmon  yesterdar mathew garret said that on irc

  12:00  raphink  kmon: so far at least. Dapper is to be supported for 3 years on the desktop, and we can't do that with xgl

  12:00  Riddell  although if we have a council by then we can do membership and stuff

  12:00  toma  25 is start k3m, i wont be there then.

  12:01  Riddell  what's k3m?

  12:01  toma  kde multi media meeting

  12:01  kmon  raphink: I think they'll have a look at fedoras solution

  12:01  Riddell  oh, cool

  12:01  raphink  seems nice

  12:01  raphink  I can't promise to be there at next meeting

  12:01  Riddell  how's the 22nd?

  12:01  Tonio_  kmon: which is aiglx :)

  12:01  kmon  raphink: at least that's what I read the other day on IRC

  12:01  raphink  as I'm given a job and am not sure I'll have a connexion at the time

  12:01  raphink  but I'll do my best

  12:01  raphink  :)

  12:01  kmon  raphink: yes

  12:02  Tonio_  kmon: compiz is already compatible with aiglx, I tested and that's exactly like with xgl, except it is just a little xorg addon

  12:02  Tonio_  Riddell: 22nd or 23rd are fine with me

  12:02  Riddell  freeflying: put down the 22nd at 21:00UTC and see who complains

  12:02  kmon  raphink: OT: Did you include your linuxtag talk on the wiki? :)

  === toma too
  12:02  freeflying  Riddell: ok

  12:02  raphink  kmon: what do you mean?

  12:03  Riddell  meeting over, thanks all, remember to test ubiquity
