{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Xenial Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== Minutes ===
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 16 Feb at 16:01 &mdash; 16:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-02-16-16.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:02.

** ''ACTION:'' smoser to update https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/+bug/1543025

==== Xenial Development ====
The discussion about "Xenial Development" started at 16:04.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:06)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:11.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)" started at 16:13.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:15.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:21.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:22.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:23.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:25.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* smoser
** smoser to update https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/+bug/1543025

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rharper (46)
* smb (6)
* hallyn (6)
* teward (5)
* caribou (5)
* jgrimm (5)
* ubottu (5)
* meetingology (4)
* kickinz1 (4)
* cking (2)
* arges (2)
* sforshee (1)
* smoser (1)
* rbasak (1)
* cpaelzer (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:01 <rharper> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb 16 16:01:49 2016 UTC.  The chair is rharper. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:01 <meetingology> 

 16:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:02 <rharper> ok

 16:02 <rharper> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:02 <rharper> looking at the notes that jgrimm kindly just uploaded

 16:02 <jgrimm> just barely

 16:02 <rharper> smoser: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/+bug/1543025 was an action item

 16:02 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1543025 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Xenial) "Wrong UTC zoneinfo in cloud-images" [High,Triaged]

 16:03 <smoser> i'll be doin some cloud-init work this week. so i'll be more on that

 16:03 <rharper> ok

 16:03 <rharper> i'll keep it down for next week then ?

 16:04 <rharper> #action smoser to update https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/+bug/1543025

 16:04 * meetingology smoser to update https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/+bug/1543025

 16:04 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1543025 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Xenial) "Wrong UTC zoneinfo in cloud-images" [High,Triaged]

 16:04 <rharper> I've no more actions to review

 16:04 <rharper> moving on

 16:04 <rharper> #topic Xenial Development

 16:04 <rharper> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:05 <rharper> from the link, we can see it's just about FeatureFreeze time

 16:05 <rharper> this Thursday

 16:05 <rharper> the 18th

 16:06 <rharper> if you've a merge assigned and it appears like it's not going to be ready by the freeze, please go head and prepare the justification and update your merge bugs

 16:06 <rharper> moving onward

 16:06 <rharper> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:06 <rharper> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:07 <rharper> looks like a bunch of fun ones in there

 16:08 <cpaelzer> for certain degrees of fun ^^

 16:08 <teward> "fun" is a headache for me in this case - nginx in Debian has a whole plugin update that isn't 'released' yet so I have to nitpick from Debian git to pull the next nginx into Ubuntu before featurefreeze

 16:08 <teward> (which is why my "update nginx" task is still INPROGRESS) - i'd like some advising on whether that's sane or not, though

 16:10 <jgrimm> teward, i'm assuming rbasak can take a look/advise for you.

 16:10 <teward> yep, i was going to ask him anyways :)

 16:10 <jgrimm> :)

 16:10 <teward> granted, that's assuming my 'net stays up today :)

 16:11 <teward> (that's it for me)

 16:11 <rharper> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:11 <caribou> clamav merge (LP: #1540491) completed & uploaded; sitting in -proposed & all test passed

 16:11 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1540491 in clamav (Ubuntu) "Please merge clamav 0.99+dfsg-1 (main) from Debian stable" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1540491

 16:11 <rharper> caribou: nice!

 16:12 <caribou> uploaded makedumpfile-1.5.9-5 to trusty-backports so network kernel dump is possible

 16:12 <caribou> & I'd need some experienced core dev review of a package rename for trusty/universe (mstflint4)

 16:13 <caribou> other than that I'm good

 16:13 <rharper> cool!

 16:13 <rharper> any questions for caribou

 16:13 <rharper> cool, thanks caribou

 16:13 <rharper> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)

 16:15 <rharper> ok, moving on

 16:15 <rharper> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:15 <smb> Not much from kernel. I guess being at kernel 4.4 isn't much of news by now. And no we won't go 4.5 in case there is still doubt. Has anybody issues found with 4.4 to bring up? Oh and not kernel but there is now a shiny libvirt-1.3.1 in Xenial. If this causes issues please speak up (file bugs) as soon as possible.

 16:16 <caribou> smb: \o/

 16:16 <rharper> smb: nice!

 16:16 <hallyn> smb: well, bug 1531747 :)

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1531747 in linux (Ubuntu Xenial) "overlay: mkdir fails if directory exists in lowerdir in a user namespace" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1531747

 16:17 <hallyn> kinda important, but i'll push on it later elsewhere

 16:17 <sforshee> hallyn: that will be fixed soon

 16:17 <hallyn> sforshee: yay!

 16:17 <rharper> anything else for smb?

 16:17 <kickinz1> Bug 1532145 is being worked on right now.

 16:17 <ubottu> bug 1532145 in linux (Ubuntu) "Kernel Panic wrt btrfs while sbuild/schroot" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1532145

 16:17 <hallyn> smb: thanks for the libvirt merge

 16:17 <hallyn> (and arges)

 16:18 <kickinz1> (overlay +btrfs)

 16:18 <arges> so glad its done

 16:18 <rharper> hehe

 16:18 <arges> smb++

 16:18 <smb> yeah :)

 16:19 <rharper> thanks kickinz1

 16:19 <smb> kickinz1, yeah I think cking is actively trying to bisect

 16:19 <kickinz1> seems he found some fix to check with upstream today.

 16:19 <smb> I just noticed

 16:19 <cking> i've found the issue, and upstream are dithering about a fix as it's actually a design flaw in btrfs

 16:20 <smb> Why am I not that surprised...

 16:20 * cking discussing it with upstream as we speak :-/

 16:20 <smb> thx cking

 16:20 <kickinz1> cking: thanks!

 16:21 <rharper> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:21 <hallyn> desgin flaw -> misusd feature you mean

 16:21 <rharper> any upcoming CFPs we should be aware of ?

 16:22 <rharper> nope?  ok

 16:22 <rharper> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:22 <rharper> events?

 16:23 <jgrimm> not seeing much of either on lwn event/cfp calendars, fwiw

 16:23 <rharper> ok

 16:23 <rharper> #topic Open Discussion

 16:24 <rharper> rbasak: I already mentioned it's feature freeze this week, reminding folks to update their merge bugs if it's not going to make the 18th.  Any other dev/release topics you wanted to bring up ?

 16:25 <rbasak> Thanks. Nothing else from me.

 16:25 <rharper> alright

 16:25 <rharper> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:26 <jgrimm> gaughen, want to take next week?

 16:26 <rharper> Next meeting will be a week from today, at the same scheduled time.  Chair is pointing to beisner, or a suitable replacement if things are still in conflict

 16:26 <rharper> maybe gaughen wants to skip to the head of the line

 16:26 <rharper> ok, that's all folks

 16:26 <rharper> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
{{{
}}}
