{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
* Delegating Membership is progressing, more council are expected to be set up soon.
* Carlos will work on rounding up a team for being the rosetta point of contact for Ubuntu translations and will return for an ack.
* The doc wiki will be licensed under CC-BY-SA, the main wiki will be revisited later.
* Mike & Matthew were approved for the forums council.
* kubuntu-de.net is on good route to become an official locoteam. They will try and cooperate with ubuntuusers.de and make Kubuntu rock in germany. Their request for a kubuntu-de maiilinglist was honoured and kubuntu-CC lists will also be available for kubuntu teams in other countries if they communicate well with the local Ubuntu team.
* The canadian and Iranian team are welcomed as official locoteams.

=== Memberships ===
** <nowiki>[[MehdiHassanpour|Mehdi Hassanpour]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[pereira|Rodrigo Pereira]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[DeanSas|Dean Sas]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[FirdausAziz|Firdaus Aziz]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Zenwhen|TroyMcFerron]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Mlind|Matti Lindell]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AdrienCunin|Adrien Cunin]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AlbinTonnerre|Albin Tonnerre]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[dennda|dennda]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[AaronToponce|AaronToponce]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[TristanRhodes|Tristan Rhodes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[LionelLeFolgoc|Lionel Le Folgoc]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MiloCasagrande|Milo Casagrande]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[StephenStalcup|Stephen Stalcup]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[LucaFalavigna|Luca Falavigna]]</nowiki>

=== Log ===
<pre>
(04:05:35 PM) Seveas: Let's hope the CC wakes up..
(04:05:57 PM) smurf_: Seveas: do you have mobile numbers?
(04:06:00 PM) Seveas: smurf_, no
(04:08:51 PM) elmo: sabdfl is in a meeting still, I'll go interrupt him in a couple of minutes if he's still not free
(04:09:04 PM) mako: that's fine
(04:09:12 PM) mako: i'm going to finish catching up on CC mail
(04:09:18 PM) Seveas: elmo, cjwatson ack'ed as well so maybe we can get him on board?
(04:09:38 PM) elmo: nah, colin's been travelling to/from london today, he can't make it, unfortunately
(04:09:44 PM) Seveas: ah ok
(04:09:48 PM) Seveas: then we wait ;)
(04:10:43 PM) elmo: can we do anything in the meantime?
(04:11:00 PM) Seveas: "Dennis Kaarsemaker
(04:11:00 PM) Seveas: Delegating membership approvals and fine-tuning the new member process
(04:11:00 PM) Seveas: This was discussed at UDS and I'd like to hear about the progress"
(04:11:07 PM) Seveas: basically: IS there progress?
(04:11:24 PM) Seveas: if not, then we should contonue discussion via e-mail, not in here I think
(04:12:23 PM) elmo: mako: you want to take that one?
(04:12:45 PM) elmo: oh, I know what we could do, even if Mark doesn't turn up, I checked out the threads on the two FC folks, and we can probably go forward with that
(04:13:05 PM) forumsmatthew: we are both here
(04:13:09 PM) forumsmatthew: me and MikeB
(04:13:58 PM) ubuntugeek: elmo: good
(04:14:38 PM) ubuntugeek: I'll also vouch for vorian's membership .. i gotta leave in 15 minutes :)
(04:15:20 PM) ubuntugeek: and also Zenwhen for his membership
(04:14:58 PM) mako: elmo: sure
(04:15:26 PM) mako: basically, memeberhip approval delegation had already happened
(04:15:30 PM) carlos: elmo: would be possible to handle 'Localisation / Translation Team Leader' position today? (Is the first time I attend this kind of meeting so I'm not sure the procedure too much...)
(04:15:40 PM) PriceChild: I'll vouch for Vorian_
(04:15:41 PM) mako: it happened with both kubuntu and edubuntu councils
(04:15:51 PM) ubuntugeek: mako: ok thanks fine.. is it possible todo the FC stuff today?
(04:15:56 PM) Seveas: PriceChild, please wait until that comes up in the agenda
(04:16:18 PM) Seveas: mako, any other councils in the picture for delegation (xubuntu, forums etc...)?
(04:16:22 PM) mako: ubuntugeek: sure, if everything is set to go, that's fine.. if not, it'll be fint to talk
(04:16:30 PM) mako: Seveas: right
(04:16:43 PM) lophyte: hey folks
(04:16:47 PM) ubuntugeek: mako: yeah both people got overwhelming +1's so..
(04:16:49 PM) mako: so the goal of the proposal was to help document the process as it already existed
(04:17:05 PM) mako: ubuntugeek: great, then we're ready :)
(04:17:23 PM) mako: ubuntugeek: sounds good, we can do that first, or as soon as mark shows up
(04:17:30 PM) ubuntugeek: mako: ok thanks
(04:17:35 PM) LaserJock: Seveas: MOTU Council is just waiting on final approval of CC or TB (I think TB), I believe
(04:17:36 PM) mdke: I think further delegation of membership should have more discussion, isn't there an incomplete spec about it?
(04:17:57 PM) mako: Seveas: the goal was to codify/document the process and to expand it to more teams
(04:18:24 PM) mako: we've said we want to do it for the forums council as soon as we can get the council itself up to speed on our processes and standard for membership
(04:18:28 PM) mdke: (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MembershipManagement)
(04:18:43 PM) JoeyStanford: mkde, yes there is a spec.
(04:18:47 PM) JoeyStanford: we worked on it at UDS MTV
(04:18:50 PM) mako: we've also said we want to wait on the loco team council, but would like to soon
(04:19:01 PM) mako: mdke: it was documented as part of another spec i think
(04:19:04 PM) JoeyStanford: also related to the CC spec as well
(04:19:17 PM) JoeyStanford: Mako, you, I and other spoke in the big conf room about this
(04:19:19 PM) mako: i mean, it's probably incomplete there too :)
(04:19:24 PM) JoeyStanford: agreed
* **mako nods to JoeyStanford
(04:19:35 PM) mako: anyway, it's something we're already doing, and would like to do more of
(04:19:43 PM) Seveas: ok, so discussing it now is rather pointless as it needs to wait for more work, right?
(04:19:46 PM) mako: so we should document it to make it easier to do so
(04:20:02 PM) mdke: I need to add my objections to increasing delegation further to that spec
(04:20:06 PM) mako: Seveas: i don't think there's a lot of discussion that needs, perhaps someone just needs to write it
(04:20:12 PM) Seveas: heh ok
(04:20:17 PM) Seveas: moving on then?
(04:20:18 PM) mako: unfortunately for me, that someone is probably me
(04:20:41 PM) mako: yes
(04:20:43 PM) MikeB-: mako: :)
(04:21:02 PM) Seveas: ok, forums council then (ubuntugeek has limited time)?
(04:21:33 PM) mako: so we have a quorate CC
(04:21:49 PM) Seveas: as soon as sabdfl arrives
(04:21:53 PM) Seveas: (cjwatson's not here)
* **mako nods
(04:22:21 PM) LaserJock: sort of OT: have CC and TB nominations been done already?
(04:22:39 PM) Seveas: LaserJock, CC definitely not, TB is for the TB meeting
(04:22:40 PM) elmo: mako: I've checked with sabdfl, and he's happy for us two to finish the FC stuff
(04:23:03 PM) ubuntugeek: elmo: awesome
(04:24:36 PM) mako: elmo: great
(04:25:09 PM) mako: is matthew here?
(04:25:14 PM) forumsmatthew: I'm here
(04:25:19 PM) forumsmatthew: unstable connection, though
(04:25:36 PM) ubuntugeek: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=317446 <- matthews thread
(04:25:55 PM) ubuntugeek: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=317445 <- mike's thread
* **mako is reading now...
(04:27:21 PM) mako: wow
(04:27:30 PM) mako: forumsmatthew, MikeB-: a little ego boost i suppose :)
(04:28:01 PM) ubuntugeek: See mako, we dont always select bad people .. hah
(04:28:25 PM) mako: ubuntugeek: hey man, i voted for them two weeks ago :)
(04:28:28 PM) MikeB-: lol, I bow before Matthew support. He is a true leader in the community
(04:28:44 PM) mako: great, +1 for both from me and for the procedure
(04:28:46 PM) forumsmatthew: MikeB-, :)
(04:28:56 PM) ubuntugeek: mako: Yeah I know.. :)
(04:29:41 PM) mako: elmo: ?
(04:29:47 PM) elmo: +1
(04:30:01 PM) Seveas: ok, awesome!
(04:30:06 PM) ubuntugeek: great
(04:30:09 PM) Seveas: congrats to both
(04:30:10 PM) ubuntugeek: glad thats completed
(04:30:13 PM) ubuntugeek: thanks all
(04:30:19 PM) forumsmatthew: thank you!
(04:30:20 PM) elmo: ok, so sabdfl finally got free, he's on his way home to join the meeting from there
(04:30:20 PM) MikeB-: thanks
(04:31:20 PM) mako: awesome
(04:30:24 PM) Vorian_: congrats forumsmatthew and MikeB- !
(04:30:30 PM) ubuntugeek: grats mikeb and matthew
(04:30:48 PM) ubuntugeek: Ok i am out of here.. see you all later
(04:31:24 PM) Zelut: MikeB-: congrats. now if we can get you to find some time for the Utah Team as well ;)
(04:31:44 PM) MikeB-: Zelut: my schedule should better soon
(04:32:10 PM) jenda: congrats forumsmatthew, MikeB- :)
(04:32:21 PM) mako: yes, congrats forumsmatthew and MikeB-
(04:32:26 PM) mako: and THANK YOU ubuntugeek
(04:32:33 PM) ubuntugeek: np..
(04:32:41 PM) rpereir1: forumsmatthew, MikeB-: congrats!
(04:32:44 PM) forumsmatthew: thank you everyone for your support!
(04:32:45 PM) ubuntugeek: btw, our first FC meeting went rather well today.. so yay!
(04:32:49 PM) mako: ubuntugeek: for your heroic patience with us, and of course for the forums :)
(04:33:12 PM) ubuntugeek: thanks for putting up with me on those phone calls
(04:33:55 PM) mako: i see the lack of a strong connection between the cc and forums as the single worst mistake that this group has ever made (except maybe not noticing the importance of the forums in the first place)
(04:34:16 PM) ubuntugeek: mako: well hopefully we are overcoming that
(04:34:19 PM) mako: so this is really really good news :)
(04:34:33 PM) mako: man, that puts me in a good mood

(04:30:26 PM) Seveas: elmo, col
(04:30:29 PM) elmo: he should be here in 10 mins or so. sorry about this
(04:30:29 PM) Seveas: cool even
(04:30:39 PM) Seveas: we can do the translations bit without him
(04:30:44 PM) Seveas: carlos is here
(04:30:50 PM) carlos: hi
(04:30:56 PM) Seveas: amachu and Gwaihir as well :)
(04:31:16 PM) Gwaihir: hi all
(04:31:37 PM) carlos: and OgMaciel (is not directly involved right now, but is interested in the discussion)
(04:31:58 PM) Seveas: carlos, so, what's the status, what do you want to get accomplished today?
(04:32:25 PM) carlos: well, I was asked to write the requirements from the point of view of Rosetta
(04:32:34 PM) carlos: those are now in the wiki
(04:33:17 PM) carlos: so I guess next step is to decide whether we can elect someone to take care of the position or ask for interested people on it
(04:34:19 PM) mdke: poor carlos!
(04:36:30 PM) mako: alright
(04:37:53 PM) Seveaz: well, 2 people have interest in that position, but how comfortable are we with someone who is not a developer doing these things?
(04:38:12 PM) carlos: Seveaz: that's not a developer position at all
* **mako nods to Seveaz, carlos
(04:38:36 PM) carlos: Seveaz: the profile is for a translator
(04:38:47 PM) Seveaz: carlos: true, but the person in charge needs to know how the ubuntu development process works
(04:38:57 PM) carlos: of course, knowing how Ubuntu works is also a good thing
(04:39:26 PM) carlos: Seveaz: OgMaciel said that he would be also interested on helping there if it's a team of people instead of just one person
(04:39:36 PM) OgMaciel: yup
(04:39:41 PM) Seveas: I think having a team would be a good thing anyway
(04:39:44 PM) carlos: and I think, if he's interested, that would fit that requirement
(04:39:57 PM) carlos: Seveas: me too
(04:40:30 PM) mako: i think having a couple people would be ideal
(04:40:31 PM) OgMaciel: carlos: have the 2 other interested guys read the document you wrote?
(04:40:52 PM) carlos: amachu, Gwaihir?
(04:40:57 PM) OgMaciel: carlos: yup
(04:41:04 PM) OgMaciel: are they here?
(04:41:09 PM) Gwaihir: yes yes...
(04:41:12 PM) carlos: OgMaciel: well, I'm asking them because I don't know
(04:41:15 PM) OgMaciel: Gwaihir: ;)
(04:41:19 PM) Gwaihir: I'm rfollowing the discussion
(04:41:42 PM) OgMaciel: Gwaihir: maybe you should tell us what you think of it?
(04:42:11 PM) Gwaihir: I think that having a team of 2/3 people
(04:42:14 PM) Gwaihir: would be better
(04:42:27 PM) Gwaihir: and a easier work
(04:42:53 PM) Gwaihir: coordinating all the teams in rosetta could be hard
(04:42:58 PM) mdke: if it would be a question of a team of a few people, I would consider throwing in my hat to help
(04:43:00 PM) carlos: agreed
(04:43:48 PM) Gwaihir: I don't actually get really what the work would be
(04:44:02 PM) Seveas: Gwaihir, then why did you apply? :)
(04:44:04 PM) Gwaihir: but I don't think that "a developer experience" is neede
(04:44:31 PM) mako: Gwaihir: aren't you volunteering?
(04:44:32 PM) Gwaihir: Seveas: I did get it...
(04:44:38 PM) mdke: as I understand it, it's a question of establishing some guidance for teams to apply quality control and to liaise between teams and the developers on features in Rosetta
(04:44:53 PM) OgMaciel: mdke: yes
(04:44:54 PM) mako: mdke: yes, that's my understanding as well
(04:45:09 PM) carlos: mdke: I think so, yes
(04:45:25 PM) carlos: and poke us (Rosetta developers) to make your life more easy
(04:45:40 PM) Gwaihir: if that's the point... it's clear
(04:45:47 PM) mdke: Gwaihir has pretty good experience from that point of view from the italian team and working with Gnome upstream. he's active in the international Ubuntu translators community too.
(04:45:55 PM) JoeyStanford: For the record I like the idea of a rosetta translation lead for Ubuntu. However, I am wondering if it's too much for one person.
(04:46:00 PM) OgMaciel: sounds good to me
(04:46:07 PM) carlos: so we have a single point of contact with Ubuntu translators
(04:46:17 PM) OgMaciel: JoeyStanford: my reason for "stepping down"
(04:46:29 PM) JoeyStanford: Og: ah
(04:46:51 PM) Gwaihir: Joey: I think so too
(04:47:04 PM) mdke: what's the CC's role in this process? It sounds to me like carlos and danilo are probably the best people to take this forward
(04:47:11 PM) OgMaciel: JoeyStanford: this is defintely something a family guy wants to take on while having a full-time job ;)
(04:47:21 PM) carlos: so I guess all agree in having a couple of persons in that position
(04:47:28 PM) OgMaciel: definitely noyt
(04:47:35 PM) Seveas: mdke, someone needs to be appointed and they have no idea who'd be suitable
(04:47:48 PM) mdke: Seveas: they = ?
(04:48:03 PM) Seveas: mdke, carlos & co, the launchpad people
(04:47:49 PM) carlos: mdke: well, CC asked us to assist you defining the requirements
(04:48:00 PM) sabdfl: evening all
(04:48:03 PM) sabdfl: sorry i'm late
(04:48:12 PM) mdke: I think it's more likely that carlos and danilo have a better idea of suitability, tbh
(04:48:15 PM) mako: mdke: i think tht carlos feels that having it be a cc appointed position will help make it more attractive
(04:48:20 PM) mako: sabdfl: not a problem
(04:48:24 PM) mdke: ah, sure. I can see that
(04:48:27 PM) JoeyStanford: mkde, I agree.
(04:48:27 PM) mako: sabdfl: we've put the forusm council issue to rest
(04:48:35 PM) mdke: but they need to drive this, IMO
(04:48:44 PM) JoeyStanford: mdke, I agree with that as well.
(04:48:51 PM) mako: sabdfl: matthew and mikeb had only positive responses (and lots of them)
(04:48:53 PM) carlos: and we don't think we should take the final decision, we are not even Ubuntu members, but we can assist you
(04:49:01 PM) OgMaciel: I think that if Gwaihir has all of these baggage someone (forgot who) said he has, he could most likely get this thing rolling
(04:49:08 PM) JoeyStanford: mkde, as long as it allows the Carlos and Danillo to free up and do real launchpad work.
(04:49:14 PM) mako: carlos: how about this, you've got a list of people who are interested and the idea that it might work in the team
(04:49:39 PM) Gwaihir: OgMaciel: maybe...
(04:49:44 PM) mdke: JoeyStanford: it's mDKe (for the hilight). But yeah, I was only referring to the question of taking the agenda item forward
(04:49:50 PM) mako: carlos: why don't you talk to them, make sure everyone understands what is necessary.. once you and the candidates have a situation that makes you (and hopefully them) happy, you tell us and we'll make it official
(04:49:53 PM) OgMaciel: Gwaihir: together with some more people
(0(04:50:05 PM) Gwaihir: OgMaciel: that's better ;)
(04:50:11 PM) OgMaciel: :)
(04:50:27 PM) OgMaciel: I agree with mako's idea
(04:50:28 PM) carlos: mdke, mako: Ok
(04:50:34 PM) carlos: I will handle that
(04:50:40 PM) mako: carlos: we've already done the first step of helping scare up candidates.. now i don't think there's anything we can do until you give us something we can make a decision on
(04:50:42 PM) OgMaciel: and the meeting can continue
(04:50:44 PM) mako: carlos: great :)
(04:50:59 PM) mako: carlos: cool! i'm looking forward to finishing this up
(04:51:02 PM) carlos: I guess there are 4 interested persons and three of them already agreed on working in a team
(04:51:09 PM) carlos: so it shouldn't be complicate
(04:51:16 PM) mako: carlos: sounds like you have a good idea of what to do
(04:51:24 PM) mako: great
(04:51:27 PM) mako: what's next?
(04:51:27 PM) carlos: ok
(04:51:29 PM) carlos: thank you
(04:52:04 PM) carlos: OgMaciel, mdke, Gwaihir, amachu: I will send an email tomorrow about this to see whether we have an agreement, ok?
(04:52:16 PM) OgMaciel: carlos: sounds great buddy!
(04:52:16 PM) Gwaihir: carlos: ok!

(04:51:34 PM) Seveas: Wiki Licensing
(04:51:38 PM) Seveas: mdke has the mic
(04:52:01 PM) mdke: I don't have much to say on WikiLicensing, except that it's 15 months old now, please approve it!
(04:52:03 PM) sabdfl: very pleased to see the discussion re forums council appointments, so +1 from me on those
(04:52:14 PM) mako: mdke: i've read the spec, i like it
(04:52:22 PM) mako: mdke: i think that at this point, CC-BY-SA is the only one that makese sense
(04:52:25 PM) mdke: the only outstanding item is whether it should apply to wiki.ubuntu.com
(04:52:26 PM) mako: +1 from me
(04:52:29 PM) mdke: I think it probably shouldn't
(04:52:46 PM) mdke: given all the code, artwork, etc likely to be found there, for which a more subtle approach is probably needed.
(04:52:55 PM) mdke: But I *really* need to get this sorted on the documentation wiki
(04:53:22 PM) jenda: mdke: meaning giving more flexibility on the wiki? (such as, allow people to specify licences of the content they add)
(04:53:35 PM) mako: mdke: i tend to think it should... but also think it doesn't matter and would be a bigger pain
(04:53:43 PM) mako: mdke: doesn't matter as much
(04:53:53 PM) mdke: mako: nod
(04:54:37 PM) Seveas: ok, so you baically just need elmo and sabdfl to give a +1?
(04:54:41 PM) mdke: the urgent need is to sort the documentation wiki out, I'm happy to discuss the main wiki another time
(04:54:49 PM) Seveas: (mako already did ;))
(04:54:50 PM) mdke: Seveas: hopefully yeah
(04:55:03 PM) sabdfl: mdke: i don't understand, you say that CC-BY-SA is *not* appropriate for wiki.ubuntu.com?
(04:55:29 PM) Seveas: sabdfl, the wiki contains more than docs (code, artwork) for which it may be less than appropriate
(04:55:30 PM) mdke: sabdfl: I'm saying it might not be, I don't know. I'm happy to be guided by the CC on that
(04:55:50 PM) sabdfl: ok, so this proposal is specifically the documentation wiki
(04:56:05 PM) sabdfl: i think it makes more sense to be a general "all ubuntu wiki's" proposal
(04:56:18 PM) sabdfl: an its possible to carve out images and code
(04:56:30 PM) sabdfl: CC-BY-SA for commentary, opinions
(04:56:44 PM) sabdfl: GPL for new code unless otherwise stated
(04:56:58 PM) Seveas: sabdfl, that could be done later, but mdke wants the doc wiki to move forward after 15 months standstill wrt this
(04:57:00 PM) LaserJock: one slight point would be that CC-BY-SA is not very good for me on wiki.u.c
(04:57:00 PM) sabdfl: Follow-on licence for code that extends an existing work (i.e. patches to BSD are BSD)
(04:57:10 PM) mako: i don't see any reason why images on the ubuntu wiki should be under less free licenses
(04:57:21 PM) mako: LaserJock: why is that?
(04:57:22 PM) sabdfl: nonetheless, i think it's inevitable that docs include some code, even if it's (da)sh
(04:57:44 PM) mdke: that's ok though, because it's just in the context of docs
(04:57:48 PM) LaserJock: mako: the Ubuntu Packaging Guide (which is GPL'd) relies a fair amount on stuff written in the MOTU wiki
(04:58:14 PM) LaserJock: mako: I could work around that I suppose, but I'd have to think about it
(04:58:47 PM) LaserJock: anyway, that's just one corner case
(04:59:13 PM) sabdfl: is Canonical the ultimate copyright owner, and thus able to grant exceptions?
(04:59:29 PM) mdke: debateable.
(04:59:52 PM) mdke: I wouldn't be very happy with any solution involving exceptions or carveouts to carry over to help.ubuntu.com/community though, it would be over complicated
(05:00:14 PM) mako: LaserJock: or you could relicense under CC-BY-SA, which isn't so bad
(05:00:34 PM) mako: sabdfl: no, probably not
(05:00:35 PM) LaserJock: mako: except I then become incompatile with debian docs
(05:00:40 PM) mako: LaserJock: ah, ok
(05:01:08 PM) LaserJock: mako: rewriting Debian Policy wouldn't be so much fun ;-)
(05:01:19 PM) mako: LaserJock: what do you mean, incompatible with being in debian or incompatible with a particular doc in debian you are syharing text with
(05:01:36 PM) LaserJock: mako: I use parts of Debian Policy
(05:01:44 PM) mako: LaserJock: oh, ok, and the license there is?
(05:01:49 PM) LaserJock: all Debian devel docs that I know of are GPL
(05:02:23 PM) mako: sabdfl: i agree that we should think about this for the main wiki
(05:02:45 PM) LaserJock: I mean, this is just one case, I can work it out whatever you guys decide. I just wanted to bring up that sometimes it gets tricky
(05:03:00 PM) mako: sabdfl: but mdke has been very patiently trying to get approval for the documenation wiki for a very long time and i don't think we're ready to make a decision on the main wiki today.. because of things like LaserJock's situation that we need to sort out
(05:03:13 PM) mdke: we can do a separate spec
(05:03:15 PM) mako: i think we should vote on this for the documentation wiki so that mdke can move forward today
(05:03:29 PM) mako: mdke: right, and then do a main wiki spec where we can hash out these issues
(05:03:38 PM) mdke: right, that's what I meant
(05:03:40 PM) mako: i'd like to do it, to have the two under compatible licenses and for a whole set of other issues
(05:03:53 PM) mako: but lets do the easy stuff today and identify the other issues for later
(05:04:42 PM) mdke: elmo, sabdfl?
(05:04:45 PM) sabdfl: ok, +1 from me on CC-BY-SA for the documentation wiki, and thanks mdke for your patience :-)
(05:04:58 PM) mako: mdke: yes :)
(05:05:13 PM) elmo: fine by me
(05:05:20 PM) Seveas: great!
(05:05:21 PM) mako: brilliant
(05:05:21 PM) mdke: thanks very much indeed.
(05:05:29 PM) Seveas: mdke, good luck :)
(05:05:32 PM) mdke: did you see those 15 kilos fall off my mind over there?
(05:05:41 PM) mdke: :)

(05:06:16 PM) Seveas: Zerlinna, you're up next
(05:06:20 PM) Zerlinna: ok
(05:06:21 PM) mdke: the spec envisages another spamathon by me to let everyone know, so apologies in advance for that.
(05:06:21 PM) Seveas: (kubuntu-de mailinglist)
(05:06:23 PM) Zerlinna: Hi, my name is Mirjam WÃ¤ckerlin, I'm the team contact for the german-speaking Kubuntu Community at kubuntu-de.net
(05:06:24 PM) Zerlinna: By now, our community has over 5000 registered users, we maintain a forum, a package archive with up-to-date kubuntu-packages and the german translation of UWN (starting from UWN issue 25). So, de facto we're already working as a local Community Team, and that's why we would like to get official approval in order to provide even better support to our users. We have nothing against a collaboration with ubuntuusers.de, there is just
(05:06:24 PM) Zerlinna: also a need for a german kubuntu site to give the best support to our users and also to the kubuntu project. One of the first steps in becoming official is to get an kubuntu-cc@lists.ubuntu.com.
(05:06:30 PM) Zerlinna: I made the request for our team, but the response was rather negative: we were asked if we could produce enough specific traffic, and if we had considered using the ubuntu-de list. IMO it makes no sense to give kubuntu-specific support on an ubuntu-list. Especially for new kubuntu users it may be much easier to find the right place for support if we had our own list. If every Kubuntu Team has to argue and fight before even having a
(05:06:30 PM) Zerlinna: mailing list, I don't see a chance that there will ever be a Kubuntu Loco Team, which is IMO not only a big disservice for the kubuntu users but also for the project itself. This kind of chasing windmills is annoying for people who just want to do their work and will make a lot of valuable and active contributors from the community think about leaving.
(05:07:09 PM) mdke: Zerlinna: can you explain your teams' relationship with kubuntu.de?
(05:07:16 PM) mdke: for those of us who aren't up to speed
(05:07:22 PM) Zerlinna: mdke kubuntu.de is clearly not a community page, it is in fact the pendan to kubuntu.org. Myself I'm a member of kubuntu.de too, and I see no conflicts in kubuntu-de.net becoming a loco-team.
(05:07:23 PM) Seveas: Zerlinna, and with ubuntuusers.de (the official ubuntu locoteam)
(05:07:41 PM) mdke: Zerlinna: pendan?
(05:07:44 PM) kwwii: there is no connection with ubuntusuers.de until now
(05:07:55 PM) elmo: so, as the person who supplied the "rather negative" response, perhaps I should qualify
(05:08:09 PM) Zerlinna: mdke sorry missing t: pendant :)
(05:08:36 PM) Zerlinna: kwwii is right, though we have nothing against collaboration e.g. for translations
(05:08:51 PM) Seveas: Zerlinna, I find it rather odd that you'v started a new team and thus split the community
(05:08:53 PM) mdke: Zerlinna: I still don't get it. But there seem to be all sorts of support resources there, I don't understand having *two* german kubuntu teams (I can see your argument in favour of a separate mailing list, even if it's privately hosted)
(05:09:03 PM) Seveas: why didn't you collaborate from the start on?
(05:09:13 PM) mdke: let's hear elmo though
(05:09:15 PM) Zerlinna: Seveas: our team is not "new".. the forums exist for a pretty long time already
(05:09:26 PM) Seveas: Zerlinna, so did ubuntuusers.de ;)
(05:09:38 PM) kwwii: Seveas: the split had to do with the owner of that site, and his contributions and reluctance thereof more to do than anything
(05:09:53 PM) Zerlinna: mdke according to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto#head-7e7cfbc9ee0c22e5397e25a27e8011afb5405f1a we need this list in order to become an official loco team one day
(05:09:59 PM) mako: kwwii: do those problems still exist?
(05:10:00 PM) kwwii: beleive me, we talked on the phone quite a few times trying to solve this
(05:10:01 PM) mdke: kwwii: that could have been resolved, rather than splitting
(05:10:08 PM) mdke: kwwii: maybe with the CC's help
(05:10:11 PM) kwwii: mako: no, he is happy to see things going this way
(05:10:12 PM) Seveas: kwwii, 'that site' being uusers.de or k-de.nt?
(05:10:16 PM) elmo: the sysadmins get a lot of requests for new mailing lists - when the request is for a i18n/loco list it's very hard for us to judge the need for such a list
(05:10:23 PM) kwwii: he is slowly moving away, for whatever reasons
(05:10:38 PM) kwwii: kubuntu.de
(05:10:42 PM) Seveas: ah
(05:10:44 PM) Seveas: amu
(05:10:48 PM) kwwii: exactly
(05:10:54 PM) Seveas: 'nuff said :)
(05:10:57 PM) mdke: elmo: I might say, I think it's wholly inappropriate that the sysadmins have to deal with these requests. Can Jono be tasked with filtering them first?
(05:10:59 PM) ypsila: we were faced to facts!
(05:11:01 PM) elmo: sorry, one second
(05:11:04 PM) kwwii: there is no internal fighting and we have worked everything out
(05:11:12 PM) mako: kwwii: that's great :)
(05:11:22 PM) kwwii: but moving forward after so many problems would be a good thing for us now
(05:11:41 PM) ypsila: absolutely
(05:11:53 PM) emonkey: kwwii, full ack
(05:12:05 PM) mdke: it seems to me the best thing to do would be to liaise with jono over this issue and ask him to request the mailing list when its resolved
(05:12:06 PM) ypsila: for the germanspeaking community!
(05:12:11 PM) mako: so the request is for a kubuntu-de list
(05:12:22 PM) elmo: sorry, so
(05:12:23 PM) mdke: there should be a first stage rather than bringing these things straight to the CC
(05:12:23 PM) Zerlinna: kwwii is right.. it's annoying that we can't get to work properly because of such things
(05:12:34 PM) kwwii: mako: yes, so that we can move ahead an create a loco team
(05:12:38 PM) Seveas: mdke +1
(05:12:46 PM) elmo: sometimes these requests come from a single solitary user, tho obviously that's not the case here, but it has happened before
(05:12:49 PM) mako: kwwii: and there isn't an existing kubuntu loco team
(05:12:50 PM) kwwii: this is an important step for us
(05:12:51 PM) elmo: (quite a few times)
(05:12:52 PM) mdke: (there was a loco meeting earlier today it could have been raised at)
(05:12:54 PM) mmedland left the room (quit: "Toodles...").
(05:13:00 PM) kwwii: mako: no there is not
(05:13:00 PM) mako: mdke: yes, some of us are working on that with jono
(05:13:13 PM) Zerlinna: elmo yes but I provided you with a link to our community where you can see that we have a couple of thousands registered user...
(05:13:14 PM) elmo: so, we will question the need for these lists sometimes, but that's not a "negative" thing, it's just that a question
(05:13:15 PM) Seveas: kwwii, why do you desperately want to be seperate from the existing german locoteam?
(05:13:19 PM) kwwii: if we would have know about any other meeting we would have been ther
(05:13:21 PM) elmo: now, second of all
(05:13:27 PM) kwwii: Seveas: we are not seperating from anyone
(05:13:31 PM) mako: i think it would be a very good idea to try to work together with the ubuntu-de list where possible, but i don't see any problem with a list for a kubuntu-de loco
(05:13:35 PM) elmo: there's a problem with creating lists for every derivative and every loco team
(05:13:38 PM) mako: and can't imagine that there is another group who is more qualified
(05:13:40 PM) TheInfinity: and moving forward means concentrating on kubuntu and giving something like an "home" for kubuntu users. the problem is, that on ubuntuuser.de most times gnome is described - but its quite bad to present an user who is completely new to linux another desktop where he has to translate everything into "his" desktop
(05:13:56 PM) kwwii: Seveas: everyone has moved to a forum/list/site/wiki in which they can actually work
(05:14:01 PM) elmo: there's already potentially hundreds of loco teams and timings that by the number of derivative brings it to an unmanageable level
(05:14:05 PM) mako: Seveas: i think you're putting words in their mouth, they haven't said that
(05:14:07 PM) juliux: why do you need an extra list for around 60 mails on the old kubuntu-de list?
(05:14:09 PM) elmo: mailing lists are cheap resource, wise, but they're not free
(05:14:25 PM) kwwii: elmo: 5000 people working on one project is not what you are describing
(05:14:56 PM) smurf_: TheInfinity: true, but somehow that seems not to be a problem in any other country ..?
(05:14:57 PM) ypsila: excuse me, we war not talking about an german team, we are talking about a german speaking team, which means switzerland, austria, luxemburg, france, italy and others as well
(05:15:01 PM) elmo: so, yes, if we're asked for $derviative-$loco or -$i18n, we will question whether or not it needs to be $derivative-$loco and whether or not it couldn't be integrated into ubuntu-$loco
(05:15:02 PM) sabdfl: the KDE community is particularly strong in Germany
(05:15:08 PM) kwwii: juliux: mainly, the problems internally held us back
(05:15:12 PM) mako: there's a big community here, they want to start a loco, they need/want a loco list to do that..
(05:15:13 PM) sabdfl: so i'm not surprised to see this popping up first in Germany
(05:15:18 PM) glatzor: kwwii: but why do you need a separate loco team. as you already siad before having a mailing list would only be the first step
* **mako nods to sabdfl
(05:15:19 PM) TheInfinity: kubuntu - was said - should be a distribution with first level support - thats not "one of several sub-distributions"
(05:15:28 PM) elmo: again, that's not negative, it's a simple question
(05:15:28 PM) kwwii: juliux: that is why we want to move on, and have already started to do so
(05:15:35 PM) mako: this is only really new because it's a kubuntu group seperate from an ubuntu group
(05:15:38 PM) kwwii: glatzor: no, it would be the last step for us
(05:15:39 PM) elmo: which could have been simply answered, rather than running to CC
(05:15:42 PM) sabdfl: in general i would be supportive of a kubuntu-xx.org loco team as long as there is an open and constructive relationship with the corresponding ubuntu group
(05:15:44 PM) mdke: sabdfl: it pops up in other countries, albeit not necessarily on as big a scale. well organised locoteams can have sub groups for derivatives and represent them well without fragmenting
(05:15:47 PM) mako: ideally, we'd have a relationship similar to the one between ubuntu and kubuntu
(05:15:48 PM) ypsila: sabdfl: not only germany - germanspeaking countries we even do support to hungaria
(05:16:02 PM) aseigo: smurf_: fwiw i hear such annoyances rather regularly from many people, not specific to *buntu but in general. docu and aid that resembles precisely what you see is a good thing and desired by most
(05:16:07 PM) mako: which is that it's all one big family, but there are subgroups who concentrate on their parts
(05:16:09 PM) sabdfl: it's a failing of BOTH groups if that communication / collaboration isn't in place
* **mako nods to sabdfl
(05:16:23 PM) kwwii: agreed
(05:16:23 PM) mdke: mako: ++ it's all about subgroups
(05:16:37 PM) sabdfl: so, +1 from me to the request
(05:16:40 PM) Zerlinna: sabdfl: as I mentioned we'd like to work together e.g. on translation
(05:16:51 PM) TheInfinity: thats why we thought about working together somehow - for example by translating things
(05:16:57 PM) sabdfl: i would ask that, if there are any flare-ups, they get brought to jono quickly, rather than festering, w.r.t. ubuntuusers.de etc
(05:16:59 PM) mako: mdke: i'm ok with seperate websites and stuff, we have them ubuntu, kubuntu
(05:17:08 PM) mdke: absolutely
(05:17:11 PM) mako: what i would ask to the people here
(05:17:12 PM) juliux: Zerlinna, why do you have then your own expo team? with out any communication to the rest of the community?
(05:17:16 PM) mdke: ubuntu-fr does that particularly well, if I may say.
(05:17:17 PM) kwwii: a lot of the work is kde-centric of course, that is why need/want a loco team
(05:17:25 PM) mdke: very nice themed websites for derivatives
(05:17:37 PM) kwwii: juliux: the confusion in the transfer is what caused that
(05:17:47 PM) ypsila: juliux: the rest of the community does not communicate to us?
(05:18:06 PM) Zerlinna: juliux: actually we wanted to post an invitation for booth attendence in the uwn
(05:18:10 PM) mdke: juliux: you are from ubuntu-de, aren't you?
(05:18:16 PM) Zerlinna: +next
(05:18:18 PM) juliux: ypsila, from the expo team is every thing on public mailinglists and wiki pages
(05:18:20 PM) juliux: mdke, yes
(05:18:20 PM) kwwii: please realize that moving from amu's stuff to "our own" took a lot of work/time
(05:18:30 PM) kwwii: and patience
(05:18:33 PM) ypsila: juliux: no it is not
(05:18:34 PM) mdke: ok, so clearly there is a lack of communication between the two groups, maybe you can work on that too?
(05:18:48 PM) kwwii: all of this was discussed to an extent that everyone is happy with it, including amu
(05:18:48 PM) mako: so.. we're making the list.. what i would ask to kwwii and to other people involved here is:
(05:18:49 PM) juliux: ypsila, it is http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/LocoTeam/Messen/
(05:18:56 PM) juliux: ypsila, since 2005
(05:19:02 PM) Yann2: mdke > what about ubuntufr?
(05:19:06 PM) mako: to talk to the ubuntuusers.de folks or whoever
(05:19:16 PM) mako: and to at the very least, link to and mention each other on your sites
(05:19:20 PM) mdke: Yann2: was paying you a compliment about the themed websites for derivatives
(05:19:29 PM) kwwii: juliux: and we can certainly work on that in the future and learn from your example and contribute to that
(05:19:39 PM) mako: and see if you can come to some agreement on a way to work together in certain areas (conferences maybe, etc) and maybe even to cut down on areas of redundancy
(05:19:43 PM) Yann2: oh, thanks :p (/me's not participating, but reading the interesting debate)
(05:19:46 PM) mako: i think it's in everyone's interest to do that
(05:19:49 PM) mdke: kwwii: that's the stuff!
(05:19:57 PM) Zerlinna: mako I have no problems with linking to uu.de.. we're doing it all the time on the forums for their wiki
(05:20:31 PM) kwwii: it is not that we want to run away, rather that we want to serve the contributors interests and work together with other like-minded people
(05:20:33 PM) ypsila: but we do have to take into consideration that we get more and more users from suse
(05:20:37 PM) mako: Zerlinna: right, it might be nice to do it from the header or something.. maybe have a little "k/ubuntu de community" icon with links to important sites
(05:20:42 PM) mako: to sort of tie it together
(05:20:44 PM) mako: just an idea
(05:20:44 PM) ypsila: and they are familiar with kde
(05:21:12 PM) Zerlinna: mako I can't take the decision for the whole team but personnaly I think we can make smt like this
(05:21:18 PM) Yann2: Zerlinna > btw, I would be glad to explain you how this is working on the french-speaking locoteam, if I can do something to get kubuntu-de.net and ubuntuusers.de to work together... :)
(05:21:20 PM) ypsila: mako: we already do that in daily irc e.g.
(05:21:30 PM) Zerlinna: mako of course collaboration has to come from the other side, too ;)
(05:21:37 PM) mdke: Yann2: rock
(05:21:38 PM) ypsila: Yann2: I would be happy about that!
(05:21:48 PM) TheInfinity: Yann2: this would be a great idea, yes
(05:21:49 PM) mako: Zerlinna: sure, understood
(05:21:54 PM) juliux: Yann2, cool
(05:21:59 PM) mako: ypsila: awesome
(05:22:06 PM) mako: i think that's settled
(05:22:16 PM) Zerlinna: Yann2: well, I know the french community.. they helped me to make the french translation of the kubuntu-flyer
(05:22:29 PM) mako: sabdfl and i both approved it and i think we know what do moving forward
(05:22:31 PM) Zerlinna: Yann2: I don't know if your model fits our needs but we can talk about it

(05:22:40 PM) mako: so lets move forward as a meeting
(05:23:01 PM) mako: do we have folks from locos here?
(05:23:06 PM) mako: canada or iran?
(05:23:11 PM) tonyyarusso: lophyte: ping
(05:23:12 PM) lophyte: canada h ere
(05:23:23 PM) sabdfl: fire away
(05:23:23 PM) MehdiHassanpour: Im here from iran
(05:23:29 PM) mako: ok
(05:23:32 PM) sabdfl: lophyte: go ahead
(05:23:33 PM) mako: lophyte: shoot
(05:23:43 PM) lophyte: from what Corey has told me, -ca has already been up for approval before the CC, but our roadmap needed revising..
(05:24:07 PM) lophyte: so I present our latest revised application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/ApprovalApplication
(05:24:36 PM) tonyyarusso: I think there may have been some clarification conversations with jono as well? Not sure.
(05:24:43 PM) lophyte: I'm not sure either
(05:25:15 PM) lophyte: the Toronto chapter of the Canadian team is currently working on an Install Fest event scheduled for march break
(05:25:52 PM) sabdfl: nice logo!
(05:25:56 PM) lophyte: thanks :)
(05:26:00 PM) sabdfl: all looks good to me
(05:26:05 PM) zenwhen: hello all
(05:26:07 PM) sabdfl: do you think it's on a firmer footing this time around?
(05:26:16 PM) lophyte: definitely
(05:26:31 PM) lophyte: we're really rocking in Toronto, and Corey's been leading things well in Victoria
(05:26:36 PM) tonyyarusso: (especially if we can pull Corey back away from the new gf to get work done...)
(05:26:43 PM) lophyte: hehe
(05:26:48 PM) mdke: what's your relationship with the quebec team?
(05:26:52 PM) JoeyStanford: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ca
(05:26:54 PM) gnomefreak: hes heading to calgary
(05:26:55 PM) mdke: (curiosity)
(05:27:05 PM) mdke: I noticed it's a separate team
(05:27:07 PM) lophyte: mdke: I'm not sure.. as far as I know they're separate
(05:27:21 PM) lophyte: Corey would be better suited to answer that question, as he's been around longer
(05:27:45 PM) tonyyarusso: mdke: Some of their members hang out in #ubuntu-ca and the Canada ML, and are sort of cross-members, presumably with the bulk operating separately (mostly b/c of language).
(05:28:00 PM) lophyte: indeed
(05:28:06 PM) tonyyarusso: People like MagicFab are active in both, among others.
(05:28:15 PM) mdke: would be cool to get a good relationship with them
(05:28:18 PM) lophyte: sfllaw too, I think
(05:28:26 PM) tonyyarusso: yeah, him too
(05:28:28 PM) MagicFab: Yeah
(05:28:52 PM) MagicFab: Quebec contributes to the -ca roadmap
(05:29:36 PM) MagicFab: We're mostly organizing around documenting and of course having install-fest-type events etc. and having a model that other chapters can use
(05:29:43 PM) MagicFab: Can't stay long, meeting :(
(05:29:45 PM) Seveas: mako, elmo: any comments?
(05:30:25 PM) MagicFab: I got all the staff at the montreal office to join -qc too :)
(05:30:30 PM) lophyte: indeed, dinner is starting in a few minutes here
(05:30:35 PM) tonyyarusso: CA and QC also talk to each other about events like SFD, although whether we can get those lined up is unclear so far.
(05:30:43 PM) sabdfl: ok, all looks nice and neat to me, +1
(05:30:45 PM) mako: looks good to me +1
(05:30:51 PM) elmo: sorry, can someone remind me what was the problem last time? just the roadmap?
(05:30:56 PM) mako: MagicFab: cool :)
(05:31:07 PM) MagicFab: elmo, yes, roadmap
(05:31:12 PM) elmo: ok, +1 then
(05:31:39 PM) lophyte: excellent
(05:31:48 PM) lophyte: thanks for your time guys :)
(05:38:00 PM) JoeyStanford: excellent

(05:31:34 PM) sabdfl: MehdiHassanpour: your turn!
(05:32:08 PM) MehdiHassanpour: thanks
(05:32:11 PM) MehdiHassanpour: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IranianTeam/ApprovalApplication
(05:32:19 PM) MehdiHassanpour: is our approval app
(05:32:49 PM) MehdiHassanpour: our team has worked alot on customizing and localizing web app we needed
(05:33:09 PM) MehdiHassanpour: we have good active forums now
(05:34:00 PM) MehdiHassanpour: and had good docs since Ubuntu 5.04
(05:34:30 PM) MehdiHassanpour: they were in our older wiki and now are migrating to wiki.ubuntu-ir.org
(05:34:31 PM) sabdfl: lophyte: good work so far, thanks, an good luck!
(05:34:33 PM) elmo: MehdiHassanpour: could you proivde links to some of the websites mentioned in the 'experience' section?
(05:35:19 PM) MehdiHassanpour: yep
(05:35:23 PM) popey: elmo: linked from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IranianTeam
(05:35:34 PM) MehdiHassanpour: they are all in hezardastan.org
(05:35:51 PM) elmo: oh, ok
(05:36:04 PM) MehdiHassanpour: http://www.hezardastan.org/ubuntu5.04
(05:36:14 PM) elmo: well arabic script sure does look purty ;-)
(05:36:35 PM) MehdiHassanpour: not arabic, persian :)
(05:36:41 PM) sabdfl: interesting
(05:36:47 PM) sabdfl: is that farsi, in an arabic script?
(05:36:54 PM) sabdfl: or is it a dedicated farsi script?
(05:37:09 PM) MehdiHassanpour: arabic & farsi
(05:37:23 PM) lophyte: thanks sabdfl
(05:37:33 PM) MehdiHassanpour: they are complete guides for all newbies
(05:37:43 PM) mako: wow, pretty awesome
(05:38:10 PM) MehdiHassanpour: thanks
(05:38:41 PM) mako: you've got 88 members to date?
(05:39:07 PM) MehdiHassanpour: since 28 October 2006
(05:39:17 PM) mako: wow, you'll break 100 soon then
(05:39:20 PM) mdke: FWIW, maybe not strictly relevant to approval of the team, but my experience with MehdiHassanpour is that he is a great person to lead this team, he is an excellent Ubuntero :)
(05:39:27 PM) sabdfl: looks very good to me
(05:39:45 PM) Seveas: mdke, I agree
(05:39:46 PM) MehdiHassanpour: we didn't had these web app before 28 October 2006
(05:39:48 PM) mako: MehdiHassanpour: are there other lugs and such you've worked with?
(05:39:58 PM) MehdiHassanpour: thanks mdke
(05:40:11 PM) mako: are other distributions popular in iran?
(05:40:11 PM) MehdiHassanpour: for other distros ?
(05:40:15 PM) sabdfl: mehdi, thanks for your leadership, +1 from me to the loco team
(05:40:23 PM) mako: MehdiHassanpour: sure, but also just about gnu/linux in general
(05:40:28 PM) MehdiHassanpour: no
(05:40:32 PM) MehdiHassanpour: nothing
(05:40:45 PM) MehdiHassanpour: we have some local distros
(05:40:53 PM) MehdiHassanpour: yes
(05:41:00 PM) mako: so this is the first distro team to you knowledge in iran?
(05:41:03 PM) MehdiHassanpour: irantux.com
(05:41:14 PM) MehdiHassanpour: gnuiran.org
(05:41:18 PM) mako: ah, cool
(05:41:27 PM) MehdiHassanpour: we have some global lugs
(05:41:27 PM) mako: very exciting
* **jenda suggests voting on Mehdi's membership straight away, now that he's here and talking...
(05:41:37 PM) mako: MehdiHassanpour: thanks for all your hard work
(05:41:40 PM) mako: jenda: good suggestion
(05:41:48 PM) MehdiHassanpour: thank you mako
(05:42:01 PM) Seveas: it's late in iran, he'll appreciate it
(05:42:05 PM) mako: membership appoitnsments are up.. so it might make sense to do look at MehdiHassanpour's app
(05:42:24 PM) mako: MehdiHassanpour: when youre ready, please ahead with the normal introduction
(05:42:27 PM) Seveas: so iranianteam is approved now?
(05:42:32 PM) MehdiHassanpour: we will have a Linux desktop book soon, based on ubuntu
(05:42:50 PM) MehdiHassanpour: I'm its main author
(05:43:27 PM) mako: Seveas: pending elmo's stamp, i guess
(05:43:50 PM) elmo: +1
(05:44:09 PM) Seveas: well, there we go :)

(05:44:25 PM) Seveas: MehdiHassanpour, please give us your personal introduction for your membership application
(05:44:50 PM) MehdiHassanpour: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mehdi
(05:47:28 PM) mdke: I've worked with MehdiHassanpour several times about translation of documentation and general loco matters, he is a great asset to the community, works well with people and is an all round nice guy. Sorry for being repetitive
(05:47:32 PM) Seveas: MehdiHassanpour, too bad I can't read arabic/persian/farsi/whichever it is
(05:47:35 PM) Seveas: but it looks impressiv
(05:48:06 PM) Seveas: MehdiHassanpour, whe did you start all this?
(05:48:08 PM) MehdiHassanpour: many thanks mdke
(05:48:31 PM) elmo: MehdiHassanpour: (roughly) what are the extra packages homa installs?
(05:48:38 PM) MehdiHassanpour: I'm an ubuntu user since warty
(05:49:00 PM) MehdiHassanpour: all multimedia codecs
(05:49:04 PM) MehdiHassanpour: fonts
(05:49:06 PM) Rinchen is now known as JoeyStanford
(05:49:09 PM) mako: everything i've seen looks good
(05:49:12 PM) MehdiHassanpour: it has many packages
(05:49:14 PM) mako: i'm happy with MehdiHassanpour for membership
(05:49:40 PM) elmo: MehdiHassanpour: ok
(05:49:42 PM) MehdiHassanpour: thanks mako
(05:49:43 PM) elmo: +1 from me too
(05:49:43 PM) sabdfl: +1 from me for MehdiHassanpour
(05:49:47 PM) sabdfl: welcome aboard!
(05:50:02 PM) MehdiHassanpour: these are the packages Multimedia edition has
(05:50:03 PM) MehdiHassanpour: http://wiki.hezardastan.org/Homa/HomaEdgy/Multimedia
(05:50:07 PM) mdke: welcome MehdiHassanpour :)
(05:50:19 PM) MehdiHassanpour: Oh, many thanks sabdfl
(05:50:29 PM) MehdiHassanpour: thank you mkde
(05:50:33 PM) MehdiHassanpour: mdke
* **mako nods

(05:50:46 PM) mako: great, whose next?
(05:51:08 PM) rpereir1: May I go?
(05:51:11 PM) Seveas: sebastean didn't show up
(05:51:16 PM) Seveas: nor did xoper
(05:51:20 PM) gnomefreak: rpereir1: we are going in order
(05:51:20 PM) Seveas: so you're up rpereir1
(05:51:23 PM) gnomefreak: ok
(05:51:40 PM) rpereir1: Hello, I'm Pereira. My complete name is Rodrigo Pereira Braga. I'm an university professor in Brazil. My contributions to ubuntu are translations, bugs report and triage, and support to other users (on brazilian e-mails list, minas gerais (my state in brazil) e-mails list and #ubuntu). I started to package two (maybe three) programs for Ubuntu now: Archimedes - CAD program, SyncEvolution (Sync Evolution with SyncML Calendars o
(05:51:40 PM) rpereir1: I'm trying to contribute on developing hardware drivers for brazilian winmodem. Many of my student don't use Ubuntu because in Brazil some residencies just have dialup connections.
(05:51:40 PM) rpereir1: Details are availiable on my wiki page - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Pereira . Any questions ?
(05:53:49 PM) Seveas: are there any ubuntu-br members here to cheer for rpereir1 ?
(05:53:54 PM) sabdfl: how is the evo sync stuff in terms of quality and completeness?
(05:54:15 PM) OgMaciel: Seveas: unfortunately, the 2 guys who know rpereir1 are not here
(05:54:24 PM) rpereir1: Not very good. I'm trying to work in it and send the chages upstream.
(05:54:42 PM) rpereir1: changes.
(05:54:51 PM) rpereir1: But it works very welll....
(05:55:19 PM) rpereir1: I'll have to create a script to autoconfigure and maybe and interface to sync.
(05:55:28 PM) elmo: rpereir1: how long have you been using/contributing to ubuntu?
(05:55:56 PM) rpereir1: I'm using/contributing since 2005 April... (5.04).
(05:56:07 PM) mako: Mario Meyer left a contribution on the wiki
(05:56:31 PM) JoeyStanford: FWIW, I have seen email posts and IRC discussion from Pereira over the last 3 months. That's the extent of my knowledge.
(05:56:56 PM) rpereir1: I started on my state e-mail list....
(05:57:04 PM) rpereir1: Minas Gerais...
(05:57:13 PM) OgMaciel: #ubuntu-br-mg ;)
(05:57:20 PM) rpereir1: And in my University forum...
(05:57:42 PM) elmo: +1 from me
(05:57:50 PM) OgMaciel: rpereir1: are you involved with any Edubuntu projects in Minas?
(05:57:56 PM) mako: yes, +1 form me, this all looks very good
(05:58:03 PM) mako: it would be ideal to have more people show up to give testimonials
(05:58:06 PM) rpereir1: http://groups.google.com/group/RedesEstacioBH in portuguese....
(05:58:10 PM) mako: but i appreciate that you had them added to the wiki
(05:58:39 PM) Seveas: 2 out of 3 done, not bad :)
(05:58:42 PM) rpereir1: I'm starint a project with Edubuntu in a poor community in my city.
(05:58:46 PM) sabdfl: thanks rpereir1, +1 from me, and welcome
(05:58:49 PM) rpereir1: starting
(05:58:51 PM) Seveas: welcom rpereir1 !
(05:58:57 PM) OgMaciel: congrats rpereir1
(05:58:58 PM) rpereir1: Thanks very much.
(05:58:59 PM) mdke: good job
(05:58:59 PM) OgMaciel: ;)
(05:59:02 PM) Seveas: mehdi has already been approved
(05:59:08 PM) rpereir1: For everyone.
(05:59:19 PM) mdke: rpereir1: if you're interested in helping with documentation for winmodems, perhaps you can give me your email address. We need some help badly

(05:59:15 PM) Seveas: jason can't make it, his grandfather passed away

(05:59:21 PM) Seveas: dsas, you're up
(05:59:25 PM) dsas: My main contribution is with bug triage, which I've been doing a while but stepped up my efforts last June or so. I'm also part of the UKTeam where I help out in various ways. Links: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeanSas launchpad.net/~dsas
* **Seveas gives a lot of big cheers for dsas
(05:59:49 PM) Seveas: bug triaging king!
* **JoeyStanford issues a +1 based on his experience with dsas.
(06:00:09 PM) Seveas: karma over one billion
* **gnomefreak also happy with dsas bug work
(06:00:22 PM) mdke: dsas has sent several patches to documentation, and helps out generally with docs bugs and email, he's good!
(06:00:24 PM) Seveas: no,I misread
(06:00:30 PM) Seveas: but it's still insanely high
(06:00:30 PM) popey: +1 from me for dsas. He is a demon with bug triage, is a great support analyst on the support ticket system, and he is very friendly and welcoming on irc.
(06:00:40 PM) gnomefreak: god i hoped so Seveas
(06:00:40 PM) Seveas: popey, only cc members vore
(06:00:50 PM) popey: sorry, yeah, knew that :)
(06:00:58 PM) Seveas: gnomefreak, it wouldn't have surprised me if he had over a billion
(06:01:02 PM) Seveas: he does a LOT of work
(06:01:16 PM) mdke: Seveas: sent you a /query
(06:01:22 PM) gnomefreak: he does do alot of work but hell 1 million is very hard to get
(06:01:23 PM) sabdfl: wow
(06:01:25 PM) LoudMouthMan: Nik Butler sasy Dsas is the link between UKTeam activity and much of the Documentaton acitivty and wiki so hes a BIG help to us.
(06:01:34 PM) Seveas: gnomefreak, he's at 10 mill
(06:01:37 PM) gnomefreak: thats 10 million :(
(06:01:40 PM) gnomefreak: omg
(06:01:53 PM) JoeyStanford: Karma: 10011469
(06:01:53 PM) Seveas: yes, omg indeed
(06:01:54 PM) grantg is now known as manicka
(06:02:00 PM) sabdfl: dsas: what is your malone wishlist?
* **JoeyStanford laughs.
(06:02:36 PM) Seeker`: Dsas is really helpful
(06:02:52 PM) dsas: uhm, to be easier to use, I'm still not convinced that it's obvious how to change the status for example.
* **LaserJock starts singing "All I want for Christmas ..."
(06:03:17 PM) frederific: he is IMMENSELY, he's never off #ubuntu-uk, and he's helped me out a good few times
(06:03:26 PM) frederific: (helpful)
(06:03:27 PM) dsas: I've had to point out how to do that to a few people in #ubuntu-bugs now
(06:03:35 PM) sabdfl: +1 from me on the basis of a very clear sustained contribution
(06:03:43 PM) sabdfl: and dsas, please help us make it better!
* **mako nods to sabdfl
(06:04:06 PM) mako: yes, it all looks very great
(06:04:16 PM) mako: dsas: thanks for all of your work
(06:04:25 PM) dsas: thanks :)
(06:04:28 PM) Seveas: elmo, ?
(06:04:46 PM) elmo: +1
(06:04:49 PM) popey: \o/ dsas
(06:04:51 PM) Seveas: welcome dsas !
(06:04:55 PM) Seveas: it's about time ;
(06:04:56 PM) Seveas: ;)
(06:04:57 PM) popey: Welcome to the club :)
(06:04:57 PM) dsas: sweet, thanks everyone.
(06:04:57 PM) gnomefreak: welcome dsas
(06:04:58 PM) mdke: well done dsas, welcome aboard
(06:05:02 PM) LoudMouthMan: congratulations dsas.
(06:05:07 PM) LaserJock: congrats dsas
(06:05:18 PM) Yawner: congrats dsas :)
(06:05:31 PM) BuffaloSoldier: Thanks Seveas
(06:05:35 PM) Seeker`: congrats dsas

(06:05:01 PM) Seveas: BuffaloSoldier, you're up
(06:05:37 PM) BuffaloSoldier: Hello, my name is Firdaus Aziz, I use the handle "BuffaloSoldier" in UbuntuForums. I have been an Ubuntu user since November 2004 and have been a regular UbuntuForum users since the same time. At the begining my main contribution was helping with users that are new to Ubuntu/Linux. People in the forums where very friendly and helpful when I first started, that's why I decided to contribute back especially to newcomers to lin
(06:05:37 PM) BuffaloSoldier: ux. Starting March 2006 I have been given the honor to serve as a moderator there.
(06:05:55 PM) BuffaloSoldier: My near-future plan is promoting ubuntu/edubuntu to high schools and colleges in Malaysia and to work closely with relevant organization (Malaysian Education department). Being an Ubuntu member would help me very much when dealing with people especially government organization. My wiki is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirdausAziz
(06:06:32 PM) sabdfl: in future, forums staff will automatically qualify for membership if they want
(06:06:34 PM) Seveas: BuffaloSoldier, can you please give us a link to your forums profile
(06:06:56 PM) jenda: BuffaloSoldier has been an important part of the mod squad on the ubuntuforums. He handles users very well, too.
(06:06:59 PM) Seveas: ah nvm ,it's on your page :)
(06:07:57 PM) sabdfl: BuffaloSoldier: can you tell us how things are settling down in the forums since we discussed ForumsGovernance?
(06:08:09 PM) magical_trevsky left the room (quit: "Konversation terminated!").
(06:08:55 PM) BuffaloSoldier: personally i think it's too early to tell, i think it will be sometime before the end-user that visits the forums starts to notive anything
(06:09:00 PM) zenwhen: I came here to cheer for BuffaloSoldier as well. He has been a wonderful person to work with during my time as an Ubuntu Forums staff member.
(06:09:59 PM) Vorian_: I am cheering for BuffaloSoldier as well, he is always very helpful!
(06:10:15 PM) sabdfl: ok, looks like a substantial and sustained contribution to me
(06:10:20 PM) sabdfl: +1 from me on BuffaloSoldier
(06:10:22 PM) mako: any other testimonials from forums people?
(06:10:36 PM) mako: your contributions on the forums look fantastic
(06:10:54 PM) frederific left the room ("Going, Going, Gone!").
(06:11:04 PM) manicka: BuffaloSoldier, has always been a great contributor and moderator at the forums
(06:11:13 PM) mako: +1 from me
(06:11:14 PM) elmo: +1 from me too
(06:11:22 PM) Seveas: nice!
(06:11:25 PM) Seveas: welcome aboard!
(06:11:31 PM) jenda: Congratulations, Buffy! ;)
(06:11:33 PM) Vorian_: congrats BuffaloSoldier !
(06:11:40 PM) mdke: welcome BuffaloSoldier
(06:11:45 PM) BuffaloSoldier: thanks everyone :)
(06:12:09 PM) rpereir1: welcome BuffaloSoldier

(06:11:30 PM) Seveas: zenwhen, you're up
(06:11:37 PM) zenwhen: My contributions to the community are as follows: I have been an active member of the ubuntuforums.org staff for well over a year. I also started #ubuntuforums, which is the the freenode IRC channel used by the ubuntuforums community. (which I would like to work on getting made official)
(06:11:47 PM) zenwhen: My wiki page / application can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Zenwhen
(06:11:52 PM) zenwhen: welcome BuffaloSoldier
(06:12:07 PM) Seveas: zenwhen, the IRC channel as official as it gets already - do you ned something else?
(06:12:14 PM) zenwhen: My forums profile can be found here: http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1543
(06:12:25 PM) zenwhen: Mainly, just to see you say that. :)
(06:12:37 PM) Seveas: zenwhen, I thought I already had, sorry :)
(06:12:48 PM) zenwhen: That is settled, then.
(06:13:40 PM) jenda: zenwhen has been a great help both within the forums and the #ubuntuforums IRC channel.
(06:13:50 PM) Vorian_: I'm here to cheer for zenwhen, he is a treasure trove of knowledge and support!
(06:15:33 PM) Seveas: other forums staff want to cheer as well?
(06:15:35 PM) BuffaloSoldier: I am here to cheer for zenwhen, he's very knowledgable and very supportive of new users
(06:16:28 PM) sabdfl: november 2004, pretty early into the game ;-)
(06:16:44 PM) sabdfl: how many forums staff are there currently?
(06:16:45 PM) zenwhen: Yes. I jumped on the right boat.
(06:17:26 PM) Seveas: sabdfl, afaik 3
(06:17:29 PM) Seveas: with a load of mods
(06:18:06 PM) sabdfl: +1 from me for zenwhen on the basis of long participation and staff membership in forums
(06:18:07 PM) zenwhen: 35 or so mods
(06:18:08 PM) manicka: all mods are considered staff Seveas
(06:18:16 PM) Seveas: manicka, ok
(06:18:37 PM) jenda: sabdfl: full list https://launchpad.net/~ubuntuforums-staff
(06:18:45 PM) jenda: (I hope it's up to date, taht is)
(06:19:02 PM) elmo: +1 from me
(06:19:19 PM) Seveas: mako, how about you?
(06:19:24 PM) mako: sorry, +1
(06:19:32 PM) mako: i'm glad we had a chance to get to you
(06:19:38 PM) Seveas: likewise
(06:19:42 PM) jenda: (Actually, it seems the newest 3-5 staff members aren't on there, I'll prod the admins)
(06:19:48 PM) zenwhen: Thank you all so much!
(06:19:50 PM) Seveas: zenwhen, congratulations!
(06:19:52 PM) mako: jenda: sure :)
(06:19:53 PM) mlind: okay, shooting
(06:20:02 PM) rpereir1: Congrats zenwhen
(06:20:09 PM) jenda: gratz, zenwhen :)
(06:20:14 PM) zenwhen: Thanks.

(06:19:45 PM) Seveas: mlind, you're up
(06:20:02 PM) mlind: Greetings to all, my name is Matti Lindell, 25 year-old student of computer science from Finland.
(06:20:06 PM) mlind: Ubuntu caught my interest back in days when I was looking an alternative for Fedora. I started as Breezy user and was hooked ever since :) I use Ubuntu daily on my personal computer and also on my work. I work part-timely on a local mid-sized software company as J2EE sofware developer and we use mainly Ubuntu on our servers&workstations.
(06:20:06 PM) mako: i'm going to need to leave pretty soon.. i have a talk i'm scheduled to give
(06:20:11 PM) mlind: I started my Ubuntu contributions by hanging out @ ubuntuforums and writing some HOWTO's about packaging and backporting stuff from Debian. I also help people there to package/build their own stuff, and I maintain a small repository to supply some community requested packages that are not available for (stable) Ubuntu's.
(06:20:16 PM) mlind: I'm very interested in ways that Ubuntu (and Debian) collaborate with open-source world and produce quality for end-users. I eventually found out about MOTUing process and a way to contribute to Ubuntu Java community by becoming a MOTU and start contributing on universe's Java section. To catch things up I joined up in few teams @ launchpad and began squashing bugs, submitting sync and merge requests (thanks crimsun, hobbesee and
(06:20:22 PM) mlind: My plans in a nutshell are: * Improve Ubuntu's Java support (hopefully by MOTUing) * Help with syncs&merges * Become a Ubuntu member * Become a MOTU * Transform some great ubuntuforums articles made by others into Wiki content
(06:20:26 PM) mlind: Wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mlind
(06:20:28 PM) mlind: Launchpad profile: https://launchpad.net/~mlind
(06:20:30 PM) mako: sabdfl in his python-fanaticism will be unhappy to hear it's at the bboston-ruby group ;)
(06:20:31 PM) mlind: Ubuntuforums profile: http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=52272
(06:21:50 PM) mako: mlind: are there reasons for not including your packages in multiverse/backports/whatever?
(06:21:58 PM) sabdfl: sigh
(06:22:18 PM) mako: mlind: exciting moment for java people :)
(06:22:31 PM) mlind: no, most of the issues are policy related
(06:22:51 PM) mako: mlind: ah, ok..
(06:23:05 PM) mlind: but I'm heading to motu section hopefully, that's why I'm here :)
(06:23:31 PM) Seveas: you don't need to be a member to contribut to what the motu do :)
(06:23:54 PM) mlind: yeah, I know. allthough it would be nice to make their workload easier
(06:23:58 PM) mako: mlind: cool :)
(06:24:06 PM) Seveas: mlind, did you bring any cheerleaders?
(06:24:20 PM) theravingsociety: i would like to cheer for mlind, as his packages have high quality :-)
(06:24:34 PM) mlind: hum,, crimsum seems to left. but I hope forums people cheer for me :)
(06:24:45 PM) sabdfl: i see you subscribe to quite a few bugs, seems your interest is far beyond java only, is that correct?
(06:25:08 PM) mlind: sabdfl: yes, far beyond java
(06:25:12 PM) mako: mlind: wow, you're super active on the forums
(06:25:27 PM) Vorian_: I'll cheer for mlind ! Best kind of chap there is, very helpful!
(06:25:28 PM) mlind: thanks mako
(06:25:51 PM) sabdfl: +1 from me on the basis of java packaging and forums activity over more than a ear
(06:25:54 PM) sabdfl: year, that is
(06:26:09 PM) mako: absolutely
(06:26:12 PM) mako: +1 from me
(06:26:14 PM) mako: lots of visible work
(06:26:19 PM) elmo: +1
(06:26:43 PM) sabdfl: welcome, mlind, and thanks for your contribution so far
(06:26:51 PM) mlind: thanks Vorian_ and forums people ;)
(06:27:00 PM) mlind: thanks guys/gals, glad to be aboard
(06:27:02 PM) Vorian_: congrats mlind !
(06:27:10 PM) rpereir1: congrats mlind!
(06:27:13 PM) zenwhen: congrats
(06:27:26 PM) theravingsociety: congrats
(06:28:00 PM) Seveas: (congrats mlind!)

(06:27:52 PM) Seveas: nocturn can't make it

(06:27:56 PM) Seveas: so Adri2000 is up
(06:28:03 PM) Adri2000: ok :)
(06:28:09 PM) Adri2000: I'm Adrien Cunin, 16 years old French student. I have been an active contributor since the end of the dapper cycle with translation. For edgy, I started bug triaging (I'm part of the QA team now) and packaging.
(06:28:09 PM) Adri2000: Today I'm more focused on packaging, MOTU work: merges/syncs, bugs fixing. I packaged some new programs, and I'm going to maintain two of them in Debian (they are currently in the NEW queue).
(06:28:09 PM) Adri2000: You can find the detail of my packaging work on my wiki page.
(06:28:09 PM) Adri2000: LP: https://launchpad.net/people/adri2000 - Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdrienCunin
(06:28:17 PM) Adri2000: Unfortunately, Gauvain Pocentek, who is my main sponsor/mentor, can't be here for the meeting, therefore he added some comments at the end of my wiki page.
(06:28:22 PM) Adri2000: Daniel T. Chen also left a note, but I guess he meant #ubuntu-motu, not -bugs.
(06:30:31 PM) mako: Adri2000: awesome that you're maintaing your ubuntu packages in debian as well :)
(06:31:01 PM) mako: Adri2000: makes getting your packages into debian to reduce the delta pretty easy :)
(06:32:14 PM) Toadstool: although I haven't been really active in the MOTU world lately, I've checked Adri2000's work several times and he's doing really good
(06:32:49 PM) Adri2000: thanks Toadstool :)
(06:32:36 PM) sabdfl: seems reasonable to me
(06:32:40 PM) mako: yes, looks that way to me
(06:32:47 PM) sabdfl: Adri2000: have you applied for a place on ubuntu-dev too?
(06:33:07 PM) mako: g
(06:33:08 PM) elmo: +1
(06:33:08 PM) Adri2000: sabdfl: not yet, but I'm thinking about that, yes :)
(06:33:14 PM) mako: yes, +1 from me
(06:33:18 PM) sabdfl: ok, +1 from me for membership
(06:33:25 PM) sabdfl: and thanks for your contribution so far - welcome!
(06:33:27 PM) Seveas: nice!
(06:33:31 PM) Seveas: Welcome aboard Adri2000
(06:33:34 PM) mdke: good job Adri2000
(06:33:36 PM) Toadstool: Adri2000: wow, congrats' :)
(06:33:45 PM) Adri2000: thank you everybody ! :-)
(06:33:53 PM) rpereir1: Adri2000: congrats.

(06:34:05 PM) Seveas: mako, how long will you be available?
(06:35:55 PM) mako: Seveas: maybe this is my last one.. maybe one more
(06:36:04 PM) Seveas: mako, ok

(06:33:44 PM) Seveas: Lutin, you're up next
(06:33:51 PM) Lutin: ok
(06:34:16 PM) Lutin: I am Albin Tonnerre, student in electronics and computer science in France
(06:34:16 PM) Lutin: I started using linux and ubuntu over a year ago, when breezy was released, as I was looking for an opensource and free OS. I use ubuntu as my only OS on a daily basis.
(06:34:16 PM) Lutin: My main interests are helping out the users on the forums and IRC, and I also like packaging. I try to contribute to ubuntu as much as I can, especially with packaging in my two major fields of interests - Enlightenment dr17 and mutimedia - I've been maintaining the e17 repo hosted on edevelop for six month now and work on somes packages for medibuntu (former plf)
(06:34:17 PM) Lutin: I'm also moderator on the ubuntu-fr forum where I try to help users as mush as possible
(06:34:19 PM) Lutin: Lp : https://launchpad.net/people/lutin- wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlbinTonnerre
(06:34:21 PM) Lutin: Unfortunately gpocentek can't be here, he is my main mentor, but he left a note on my wiki page
(06:35:00 PM) Seveas: are there other ubuntu-fr people around?
(06:35:23 PM) Sp4rKy: Seveas: i work with Lutin on some common project
(06:35:37 PM) mr_pouit: (So do I)
(06:35:42 PM) skateinmars: hi, i'm an ircop on ubuntu-fr, I just would like to say that Lutin is doing great on the french forums
(06:35:52 PM) Seveas: Lutin, why aren't your e17 packages in UBuntu yet?
(06:35:55 PM) Sp4rKy: we build E17 repo, and we work on our own revu website
(06:36:21 PM) Lutin: Seveas: mostly because the lead developper asked us nicely not to put the packages in ubuntu nor debian for te moment
(06:36:32 PM) Seveas: Lutin, fair enough :)
(06:36:33 PM) dennda: mako, may i ask you for one more? :)
(06:36:34 PM) Sp4rKy: Lutin really done a good work in packaging stuff and helping people on IRC or Forum
(06:36:44 PM) Lutin: Seveas: I'm also working with the pkg-e team for its integration in debian
(06:36:53 PM) Seveas: excellent
(06:37:08 PM) Seveas: everything that reduces the ubuntu <-> debian delta is good
(06:37:41 PM) rpereir1: Seveas: I agree with you.
(06:37:47 PM) Toadstool: Lutin (and Sp4rKy too) are doing a huge work to package e17 and make it available on the edevelop repository
(06:37:54 PM) Yann2: Lutin ?
(06:38:38 PM) sabdfl: is the E17 popular?
(06:38:49 PM) Sp4rKy: sabdfl: a little yes
(06:38:51 PM) Seveas: more popular than the E shipped by Ubuntu proper
(06:39:01 PM) Yann2: Lutin got a +1 from me, he's doing a really great job as moderator on the forums... nice and helpful :)
(06:39:02 PM) Seveas: and it's quite fast and bling-y so it attracts people
(06:39:11 PM) Lutin: sabdfl: can't recall exactly, let's say 80Go bandwith per month
(06:39:24 PM) sabdfl: doesn't make sense to have different' E's, in ubuntu and separately
(06:39:36 PM) Sp4rKy: Lutin: a little bit more i think, i've more than 100Go a month on the mirror :)
(06:39:36 PM) sabdfl: easier for devs to get testing feedback on that in the normal repo
(06:40:35 PM) Lutin: sabdfl: the devel team doesn't want to have to provide support for users
(06:40:44 PM) Lutin: as it's far from being ready
(06:41:01 PM) Lutin: that's mostly why we didn't try to put them in ubuntu for now
(06:41:21 PM) Sp4rKy: sabdfl: Lutin the stats of the mirror for e17 announce 300user by day
(06:41:28 PM) sabdfl: well, since there's no iso, you're unlikely to get folks who don't know how to select their own packages
(06:41:39 PM) sabdfl: and that's not much harder than adding a repo
(06:41:50 PM) sabdfl: so, it's just an obstacle to testing and feedback
(06:41:55 PM) sabdfl: and a source of confusion, imo
(06:42:03 PM) sabdfl: i understand the "i don't want to be flooded"
(06:42:08 PM) sabdfl: but i think it's a little misguided
(06:42:14 PM) sabdfl: that's a source of good clean bug reports
(06:42:16 PM) Sp4rKy: sabdfl: talk about that with rasterman :p
(06:42:29 PM) sabdfl: would be happy to - give him my email address
(06:42:46 PM) Lutin: ok :)
(06:43:26 PM) mako: sabdfl: you'll find that many things about e17 go against what many consider best practice
(06:43:38 PM) mako: sabdfl: the goal of the project is to be iconoclastic
(06:43:46 PM) Seveas: like a development time longer than winxp ;)
(06:43:52 PM) mako: sabdfl: that's both the greatest source of criticism and the reason people like it
(06:44:45 PM) sabdfl: but.. there are E17 packages in ubuntu, right?
(06:44:51 PM) Sp4rKy: sabdfl: no
(06:44:52 PM) Lutin: sabdfl: no
(06:44:54 PM) sabdfl: ok
(06:44:58 PM) sabdfl: older version of E?
(06:45:07 PM) Lutin: 0.16.7.x iirc
(06:45:09 PM) sabdfl: ok
(06:45:12 PM) Seveas: E16
(06:45:15 PM) Seveas: years old
(06:45:28 PM) Lutin: totally different
(06:45:34 PM) mako: alright, i really need to leave
(06:45:35 PM) sabdfl: ok, well +1 from me, though i'd like to see the placement of the packages sorted out
(06:45:47 PM) sabdfl: cheers mako, and happy new year (russian ;-))
(06:45:50 PM) mako: +1 from me as well
(06:46:01 PM) Seveas: see you next time mako
(06:46:07 PM) sabdfl: i'm getting to the end of my run too
(06:46:08 PM) mako: i'm happy to echo both of sabdf's comment
(06:46:20 PM) Seveas: elmo, +1/0/-1?
(06:46:30 PM) elmo: +1
(06:47:20 PM) Lutin: thanks everyone :)
(06:47:30 PM) rpereir1: Lutin: congrats.
(06:47:56 PM) Lutin: elmo, sabdfl: thanks :)

(06:46:31 PM) sabdfl: who's up next?
(06:46:33 PM) dennda: me
(06:46:37 PM) dennda: if i got things right
(06:47:03 PM) Seveas: dennda, is up (if we continue)
(06:46:32 PM) mako: if you keep going, please send me a summary on email with a list of people voted on, i'll approve things from there
(06:46:41 PM) mako: as long as nobody else has objects
(06:46:48 PM) mako: objections, and if i don't either
(06:46:46 PM) sabdfl: are the folks to date approved in LP?
(06:46:58 PM) mako: sabdfl: i haven't been doing it, so unless elmo has, not yet
(06:47:08 PM) mako: thanks everyone!
(06:47:13 PM) mako: see you next time
(06:47:26 PM) elmo: sorry, I haven't done it yet
(06:47:31 PM) Seveas: if noone did lp duty, I'll add a list of accounts in the summary to mako
(06:47:32 PM) elmo: I can catch up in the backlog, if you want
(06:47:40 PM) Seveas: so he can do it whileapproving the rest
(06:47:58 PM) mdke: are we continuing? I've got a couple of people I'd like to cheerlead
(06:48:18 PM) Seveas: mdke, looks like it. sabdfl, elmo want to continue or postpone?
(06:48:24 PM) sabdfl: let's keep going
(06:49:21 PM) sabdfl: i have dennda, atoponce, tristanbob, mr_pouit, Gwaihir, Vorian_, DktrKranz on the list from here
(06:49:27 PM) sabdfl: ok cool

(06:48:24 PM) sabdfl: dennda!
(06:48:25 PM) sabdfl: guys, please pre-prepare your entry comments
(06:48:27 PM) sabdfl: so we can make quick progress
(06:48:31 PM) Seveas: ok
(06:48:32 PM) dennda: thank you sabdfl
(06:48:33 PM) mdke: yay for sabdfl
(06:48:34 PM) dennda: Hi folks! My name is Christopher Denter. I am an eighteen year old German geek who started dealing with ubuntu about one year ago. Very soon after Breezy had made me love linux and ubuntu i started helping other users on forums and the IRC. I also started promoting ubuntu to my friends. I managed to replace windows on many of my mates' computers with ubuntu. Up to now I wrote two different articles about ubuntu for computer/linux ma
(06:48:34 PM) dennda: gs and many postings to several forums to promote ubuntu and to support people using it. In addition to that I began to do presentations, e.g. in school or university. I was present at last year's LinuxWorldExpo in Cologne as an active ubuntero at the German ubuntu booth. A summary of my contributions is fetchable from my wiki.
(06:48:52 PM) dennda: wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/dennda launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~dennda
(06:50:06 PM) kaffke: dennda is the leading representative of the ubuntu community in my region. he tries his best to make everyone use ubuntu and even calls on people with his laptop when they need support.
(06:50:43 PM) kaffke: so i want to cheer for dennda
(06:50:43 PM) juliux: i only can say +1 for dennda he is realy active in the german irc channels, forum, expos and in the german ubuntu association
(06:50:49 PM) sabdfl: that's very awesome
(06:50:50 PM) Seveas: other ubuntu-de members to vouch?
(06:51:40 PM) kaffke: i want to impress on approving dennda as a member because he is a very commited and dedicated ubuntero
(06:51:52 PM) smurf_: I can only repeat what the others said -- vote him in! ;-)
(06:53:39 PM) sabdfl: dennda: seems you have made a good contribution in the media
(06:53:50 PM) sabdfl: how can we improve the interaction between loco teams and their local media?
(06:53:50 PM) dennda: sabdfl, yes i hope so
(06:54:06 PM) dennda: sabdfl, i think it is all about connections
(06:54:43 PM) dennda: sabdfl, this means that we have to improve these connections. we can talk to people from the media on events like the LinuxWorldExpo for example
(06:54:45 PM) sabdfl: do you think you could draft some guidelines for how loco teams can build and maintain those connections?
(06:54:53 PM) mdke: good idea!
(06:54:55 PM) dennda: sabdfl, of course
(06:54:55 PM) Seveas: yes please
(06:55:03 PM) mdke: dennda: please share them on the loco-contacts mailing list
(06:55:04 PM) manicka left the room (quit: "om namah shivaya").
(06:55:30 PM) sabdfl: +1 from me on the back of strong advocacy
(06:55:37 PM) sabdfl: over a sustained period of time
(06:55:37 PM) dennda: i certainly will, but this has to wait at least one week. (i have my schools finish-exams starting on friday, they are very important)
(06:55:47 PM) mdke: dennda: that's great. good luck with exams
(06:55:49 PM) Seveas: dennda, good luck!
(06:55:50 PM) sabdfl: dennda: please could you work with jono on the loco+media plan?
(06:55:55 PM) dennda: thank you guys :)
(06:56:00 PM) sabdfl: i think we could teach the loco's how to build those relationships
(06:56:05 PM) dennda: sabdfl, yes i can
(06:56:10 PM) sabdfl: and feed them good announcements for translation and discussion
(06:56:12 PM) Seveas: elmo, poke
(06:56:17 PM) sabdfl: become a stronger advocacy network
(06:56:31 PM) elmo: +1
(06:56:43 PM) juliux: sabdfl, i will help dennda to talk with jono about how to get in touch with the media
(06:57:01 PM) sabdfl: ok, welcome pending mako-ness :-)
(06:57:06 PM) dennda: juliux, thank you very much for that
(06:58:05 PM) dennda: thanks everybody

(06:56:53 PM) Seveas: atoponce, you're up
(06:56:58 PM) atoponce: cool.
(06:57:03 PM) atoponce: Hello. I'm Aaron Toponce (atoponce), and I have been a long-time Ubuntu user and hacker. I am a member of the UtahTeam, active on IRC and semi-active on the forums. I first started Linux in '99 with Slackware, moved to RPM-based distros and settled down on Ubuntu when Warty was released.
(06:57:12 PM) atoponce: wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AaronToponce
(06:57:30 PM) atoponce: launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~aaron-toponce
(06:58:09 PM) tristanbob: I am here to cheer for Aaron. He is a great advocate for Ubuntu, and highly devoted to open source. He does a great job of leading a local LUG, where we often speak about Ubuntu. (Ok, we *ALWAYS* talk about Ubuntu) ;)
(06:58:41 PM) Zelut: I'm here to vouch for atoponce. I started the UtahTeam about a year ago and he was one of the early members. I think the best I could say about Aaron is that if I could no longer lead the Utah Team I would ask him to take my place.
(06:59:44 PM) Seveas: atoponce, heh, all mp3's are gone?
(07:00:03 PM) atoponce: :) yes. all. only ogg's, and one i purchased at that
(07:00:17 PM) MagicFab: "pirated" is a bad word :)
(07:00:38 PM) atoponce: MagicFab: no argument here.
(07:01:08 PM) sabdfl: is that a real plate?
(07:01:20 PM) atoponce: sabdfl: yes. it's on my '07 corolla
(07:01:31 PM) atoponce: suprisingly enough, it wasn't taken
(07:01:34 PM) sabdfl: nice. i think someone in oregon was declined for "ubuntu" there
(07:01:35 PM) atoponce: i hope it's okay...
(07:01:37 PM) popey: hehe, that's dedication :)
(07:01:37 PM) tristanbob: he got the plate before I could!
(07:01:44 PM) jenda: Atoponce has been around the marketing team these last months - I've seen him help out. /me raises his hand for atoponce.
(07:01:47 PM) sabdfl: because it could be read as u-bunt-u
(07:02:01 PM) mdke: wow that rocks
(07:02:03 PM) atoponce: sabdfl: yeah. i get people asking all the time what it means
(07:02:08 PM) jenda: Besides, atoponce types on the dvorak, which makes him incredibly cool...
(07:02:14 PM) atoponce: most can't make it out, so i explain it too him
(07:02:14 PM) Seveas: atoponce, ans you even know/use s5, impressive!
(07:02:31 PM) atoponce: Seveas: yeah. for my ubuntu-utah presentations
(07:02:52 PM) atoponce: easier than carrying around a file on a thumb drive. :)
(07:03:20 PM) sabdfl: that's a lot of cd's
(07:04:03 PM) atoponce: sabdfl: yes. i mainly hand them out on campus. i am lucky to have college departments who are supportive of it
(07:04:18 PM) atoponce: if it weren't for my university, i wouldn't be near that number
(07:04:25 PM) sabdfl: atoponce: which is your forums page?
(07:04:37 PM) atoponce: http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=18570
(07:05:07 PM) theravingsociety: good night everyone. it was my first ubuntu-meeting and a great pleasure for me to meet sabdfl in irc ;-)
(07:07:21 PM) sabdfl: atoponce: +1 from me on the back of loco and forums work
(07:07:28 PM) Seveas: Couldn't agree more :)
(07:07:33 PM) Seveas: atoponce rocks
(07:07:35 PM) atoponce: sabdfl: thx.
(07:07:42 PM) sabdfl: elmo?
(07:07:45 PM) atoponce: Seveas: thx man
(07:07:56 PM) elmo: +1
(07:08:15 PM) Seveas: atoponce, you'll also have to wait for mako

(07:08:06 PM) Seveas: tristanbob, you're up next
(07:08:12 PM) tristanbob: Hello everyone, my name is Tristan Rhodes and I am also a member of the Ubuntu Utah Team. You can start reading about me on the wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TristanRhodes
(07:08:25 PM) tristanbob: I have been with Ubuntu since the beginning (2004). At that time, I was thinking about running UserLinux as my Linux desktop. Lucky for me, I began hearing about a secret Debian-based distribution (http://no-name-yet.com) that was being created by the "Warty Warthogs".
(07:08:25 PM) tristanbob: After downloading and installing the Ubuntu 4.10 Preview Release, I fell in love with Ubuntu at first sight! I was infatuated with how Ubuntu took the best parts of Debian (huge apt repositories, commitment to open source software, great community) and improved on all the things that Debian lacked (regular releases, simple install). It was a dream come true!
(07:08:25 PM) tristanbob: I truly believe that the world will be a better place when people of all backgrounds have access to high-quality free software. There is a principle that the more resources that are applied to open source software, the better it becomes for everyone (not just paying customers). That is why I promote the use and adoption of open source software every chance I get.
(07:08:35 PM) tristanbob: Open source software is not always better quality than proprietary software, but I do believe it is always ethically superior.
(07:08:38 PM) tristanbob: My main contributions have been in advocacy and documentation. I have presented about Ubuntu in several Linux User Group meetings, and I share my love for Ubuntu to everyone who listens. :) My documentation efforts have been on the Ubuntu wiki, and also in my blog.
(07:08:42 PM) tristanbob: In the future I hope to create packages for my favorite applications, but as an intermediate step I have created scripts to install these applications on Ubuntu.
(07:09:32 PM) Seveas: sabdfl, no-name-yet.com points to changelogs now :)
(07:09:34 PM) atoponce: i'm here to root for tristanbob. as president of oalug, it's always good to have someone you can rely on. tristanbob is my rock in our local lug. whenever i need something, i know he'll step up to the plate. heck, if it weren't for him, i would not be here today. ãƒ„
(07:09:41 PM) mdke: tristanbob: what documentation have you worked on?
(07:09:48 PM) mdke: (can't see from your wiki page)
(07:10:05 PM) mdke: tristanbob: oh sorry, I see it now
(07:10:09 PM) tristanbob: mdke: just a few wiki pages - you have corrected my formatting once before.
(07:10:15 PM) tristanbob: :)
(07:11:08 PM) Zelut: I'm also here to root for Tristan. He's been another very active member of the Utah Team. He's very knowledgeable and regularly advocates Ubuntu. I think he's been a good source of recruitment for the team and I'm glad to have him.
(07:11:49 PM) mdke: tristanbob: aha, good job
(07:12:14 PM) ogra: tristanbob, "Download and test alpha releases (flights, knots, herds, etc) on a virtual machine" thats a very significant contribution we currently can not really measure, do you have any idea or suggestions how we could make the testing more measurable ?
(07:12:43 PM) ogra: s/the testing/the contribution to testing/
(07:13:27 PM) tristanbob: OgMaciel: I'm not sure... I really just like to follow the improvements as they are made, and file bugs if I run into anything.
(07:13:52 PM) OgMaciel: not me
(07:13:54 PM) OgMaciel: hehe
(07:14:18 PM) Seveas: OgMaciel, well from certain angles you look like ogra
(07:14:25 PM) OgMaciel: Seveas: hehehehe
(07:14:31 PM) sladen: tristanbob: do you think some sort of testing script that 'reported' a success every it was run would be useful. sort of like popcon, but for each upgrade of a distribution under test?
(07:14:37 PM) ogra: Seveas, lol
(07:15:20 PM) sabdfl: tristanbob: thanks for your contributions, +1 from me on the back of advocacy and loco team leadership
(07:16:00 PM) tristanbob: sladen: that is a neat idea, I am huge fan of the data gathered from popcon and the hardware database
(07:16:06 PM) crazytales left the room.
(07:16:14 PM) elmo: +1
(07:16:28 PM) tristanbob: sabdfl: elmo: Thanks!
(07:16:38 PM) Seveas: tristanbob, preliminary welcome :)

(07:16:27 PM) Seveas: mr_pouit, you're up now
(07:16:35 PM) mr_pouit: Hello, I'm Lionel, 20 years old french student. I have been an active contributor since the begginning of edgy cycle with packaging and bug triaging.
(07:16:35 PM) mr_pouit: Today I'm a bit more focused on integrating my packages into Debian (they are currently in the NEW queue).
(07:16:35 PM) mr_pouit: I try to motivate French people to involve in Ubuntu by answering packaging questions (when I know the answer, of course ;) asked on #ubuntu-fr-classroom.
(07:16:35 PM) mr_pouit: I'm also a moderator on the ubuntu-fr forum where I try to help users as much as possible
(07:16:37 PM) mr_pouit: Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LionelLeFolgoc â€“ LP: https://launchpad.net/~mrpouit
(07:16:39 PM) mr_pouit: Unfortunately, Gauvain Pocentek, who is my main sponsor/mentor, can't be here for the meeting.
(07:17:43 PM) Seveas: mr_pouit, did you bring cheerleaders?
(07:18:17 PM) atoponce: tristanbob: congrats
(07:18:23 PM) MitchM: tristanbob, grats
(07:18:23 PM) Sp4rKy: i've done many work with mr_pouit
(07:18:28 PM) skateinmars: As a french ubuntu user and ircop, I would like to cheer up for mr_pouit who is really helping people using and contributing to ubuntu.
(07:18:36 PM) rpereir1: tristanbob: atoponce: congrats.
(07:18:39 PM) Lutin: I work with mr_pouit on the medibuntu project and some other packaging stuff, I can say he's doing really great job
(07:18:42 PM) ogra: tristanbob, congrats and dont drop the testing ;)
(07:18:49 PM) Sp4rKy: especially in plf & medibuntu work, and in some other packaging stuff
(07:19:16 PM) Lutin: and besides spends a lot of time helping out new users with packaging and other stuff
(07:19:36 PM) sabdfl: mr_pouit: quite a few new packages during december, what is the main focus of your interest?
(07:19:55 PM) Sp4rKy: mr_pouit, like lutin and me, try to help people who try to learn packaging, so we help us creating package and make them better before put them to revu
(07:20:12 PM) tristanbob: ogra: thanks - I will keep up the testing (it helps if I use your correct nick)
* **Toadstool cheers on mr_pouit
(07:20:37 PM) ogra: tristanbob, yeah, else OgMaciel had to grow a lot of hair :)
(07:20:54 PM) Toadstool: he's done a really good packaging job so far
(07:20:54 PM) sabdfl: mr_pouit: how many people would you say you have mentored as part of MOTU?
(07:21:02 PM) OgMaciel: ogra: hehehehe
(07:21:14 PM) mr_pouit: sabdfl, in fact, I received a macbook during december, and I spend a lot of time to "play" with it
(07:21:36 PM) mr_pouit: sabdfl, hmm, I help 3, 4 french packagers :)
(07:22:00 PM) mr_pouit: sabdfl, that's why I made less packages during december
(07:22:31 PM) mr_pouit: (yes, I answer to the questions in the wrong order ^^)
(07:22:48 PM) sabdfl: ok, +1 from me for mr_pouit on the back of packaging, and I encourage you to join MOTU formally!
(07:22:53 PM) OgMaciel: ogra: maybe there's some similarities? http://planeta.gnulinuxbrasil.org/images/og.png :)
(07:23:12 PM) mr_pouit: sabdfl, thanks :)
(07:23:15 PM) elmo: +1 too
(07:23:21 PM) sabdfl: semi-welcome aboard :-)
(07:23:45 PM) mr_pouit: elmo, thanks ;)

(07:23:28 PM) sabdfl: Gwaihir: ?
(07:23:29 PM) Gwaihir: ready...
(07:23:33 PM) Seveas: looks good
(07:23:33 PM) Gwaihir: Ciao everyone, my full and real name is Milo Casagrande ( https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MiloCasagrande / https://launchpad.net/~milo )
(07:23:33 PM) Gwaihir: I've contributed to Ubuntu mainly with translations (documentation and software) for the italian team and to the italian wiki, I'm one of the administrators of the Ubuntu Italian Translators team and of the new Ubuntu Italian Documentation team and also a new member of the "Consiglio della comunitÃ  italiana di Ubuntu" (read as locoteam)
(07:23:33 PM) Gwaihir: I am involved with the "upstream" italian team of GNOME trying to improve the collaboration with Rosetta/Ubuntu
(07:24:36 PM) mdke: I'd like to champion Gwaihir. He is one of the most substantial contributors to the Italian community, admin of the translation team, and has recently been added to the group of 5 on our Italian Locoteam Council. He puts in loads of work and works well with different communities (see his work with Gnome upstream translators)
(07:24:49 PM) mdke: he's also sent patches to the English documentation, for which we are thankful too
(07:25:05 PM) Gwaihir: thanks mdke
(07:25:28 PM) mlind: sorry, I gotta bail. Vorian_ gets my +1 for contributing @ ubuntuforums. good night all.
(07:25:39 PM) Seveaz: mdke: impressive
(07:25:45 PM) mdke: yeah, he rocks
(07:26:20 PM) mdke: works very well to introduce new users to contributing to translation and so on, as well as doing loads of translation himself
(07:27:12 PM) Gwaihir: now i'm trying to improve also the collaboration with debian translators...
(07:27:33 PM) Gwaihir: for the debian documentation that is inside rosetta and that we are translating
(07:28:36 PM) elmo: +1 from me
(07:29:12 PM) sabdfl: Gwaihir: where would you say you've made your biggest contribution to the project?
(07:29:31 PM) Gwaihir: on the italian wiki
(07:29:54 PM) sabdfl: and when did you start that effort?
(07:29:57 PM) Gwaihir: translating and shaping it
(07:30:12 PM) Gwaihir: I started using ubuntu in 2004 with warty
(07:30:25 PM) sabdfl: are the different parts of the italian ubuntu community now working well together?
(07:30:33 PM) mdke: sabdfl: seriously :)
(07:30:39 PM) sabdfl: glad to hear it :-)
(07:30:45 PM) DktrKranz: i can confirm it ;)
(07:30:50 PM) Gwaihir: yes, forum and wiki are working well toghether
(07:31:05 PM) sabdfl: ok, +1 from me for Gwaihir on the back of loco and wiki contributions over a long time
(07:31:10 PM) mdke: sabdfl: I posted an update here: http://www.mdke.org/?p=74, for when you have a rainy day
(07:31:14 PM) mdke: or a rainy minute
(07:31:16 PM) sabdfl: welcome pending mako's thoughts!
(07:31:40 PM) Gwaihir: that's great.. .thanks sabdfl,
(07:31:49 PM) Gwaihir: thanks elmo too
(07:31:55 PM) rpereir1: Gwaihir: congrats.
(07:32:21 PM) Gwaihir: thanks all guys

(07:31:30 PM) Seveaz: next is Vorian_
(07:31:32 PM) Vorian_: Hello! I am Stephen Stalcup | https://launchpad.net/~stalcups | https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StephenStalcup | Ohio Team Leader and appointed Forums Council Secretary at today's Forums Council meeting.
(07:31:59 PM) sabdfl: mdke: nice update, thanks for the url
(07:32:05 PM) mdke: sabdfl: sure
(07:32:26 PM) Seveas: any ohio folks around to cheer?
(07:32:28 PM) meatballhat: I am here to cheer for Vorian_. Since founding the Ohio LoCo Team he has been incredibly active in encouraging new membership and participation. He leads our Team with balance and clarity, and is brimming with ideas for Ubuntu advocacy. Aside from all that, he's a perfect gentleman :)
* *jacobmp92 cheers loud for Vorian_!
(07:32:49 PM) Vorian_: I had some pre meeting cheers from ubuntugeek and PriceChild..
(07:32:59 PM) sabdfl: team ohio! land of the famous linuxfest :-)
(07:33:03 PM) jacobmp92: Vorian has been very active in the Ohio Loco meetings, and has gotten the whole thing off of the ground
(07:33:04 PM) Seveas: Vorian_, nice postcount as well
(07:33:07 PM) BuffaloSoldier: I am here cheering for Vorian_, he is a very valuable and knowledgable forum staff and a nice guy :)
(07:33:10 PM) mdke: ohio is obviously Ubuntu territory
(07:33:17 PM) Vorian_: sabdfl: woot!
(07:33:29 PM) Vorian_: mdke: yes it is!
(07:33:36 PM) mdke: cool
(07:34:29 PM) theidiotthatisme: I also am here to cheer for Vorian_! He recently encouraged me in joining the Ohio LoCo team and has provided large amounts of encouragement and support for starting projects within the team
(07:34:42 PM) Vorian_: We are working hard to become an approved team,
(07:34:52 PM) sabdfl: bit short of coffee beans there, surely?
(07:35:05 PM) Vorian_: ubuntugeek stole them... hehe
(07:35:32 PM) sabdfl: ok, +1 from me on the back of loco team leadership and forums contribution, and support from many august members
(07:35:39 PM) sabdfl: and a VERY neat wiki page :-)
* **Vorian_ does three backflips
(07:35:51 PM) sabdfl: elmo?
* **Vorian_ hugs sabdfl
(07:36:03 PM) zenwhen: Vorian is great, has been a great staffer, and I would put my name behind him.
* **jenda joins the cheering to Vorian_ acrobatics
(07:36:19 PM) elmo: +1
(07:36:25 PM) Seveas: great :)
* **Vorian_ hugs elmo
(07:36:30 PM) sabdfl: alrighty then
(07:36:31 PM) Vorian_: thanks guys!

(07:36:31 PM) Seveas: DktrKranz, you're up
(07:36:33 PM) DktrKranz: here we go
(07:36:36 PM) DktrKranz: i, my name is Luca Falavigna (Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucaFalavigna, Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~dktrkranz). I'm a 23-year-old boy living in Italy
(07:36:39 PM) Seveas: DktrKranz, is LAST on the list :)
(07:36:45 PM) DktrKranz: I started using Ubuntu with Breezy after a long "partnership" with Debian and now I would like to give my contribute back to Ubuntu community
(07:36:46 PM) popey: I'm here to support Luca. He's done a tremendous amount on the support tickets - #1 contributor to Ubuntu with 35 Million karma! (I'll catch you one day soon Luca! :) )
(07:36:53 PM) DktrKranz: I started by helping people with Support tracker trying to solve their requests and by writing https://help.launchpad.net/SupportTrackerTour help page
(07:37:01 PM) DktrKranz: I'm also active on Italian Ubuntu Forum and I recently became a Moderator
(07:37:02 PM) DktrKranz: Now I would like to provide some more help to bug triaging and develop Forum Ambassadors (https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/forum-ambassadors) for Italian forum too
(07:37:07 PM) DktrKranz: I just finished talking in #ubuntu-it-meeting about it
(07:37:12 PM) DktrKranz: what a night! :)
(07:37:18 PM) mdke: ok, at the risk of OD-ing on cheerleading, I'd like to support DktrKranz too. He is LP karma leader, thanks to sabdfl's gratuitous plugging of the support tracker ;p and has contributed substantially in the Italian community too; recently becoming a forum moderator and I've been hearing lots of good things about his work on the forum. Support tracker stuff speaks for itself, obviously
(07:37:19 PM) Seveas: 35 million karma....
(07:37:21 PM) Seveas: INSANE
(07:37:22 PM) DktrKranz: ahah popey :D
(07:37:30 PM) popey: :)
(07:37:38 PM) Seveas: ah, but the support tracker is very generous it seems ;)
(07:37:41 PM) sabdfl: that's pretty incredible luca
(07:37:54 PM) DktrKranz: it IS incredible ;)
(07:38:07 PM) sabdfl: karma rebalancing is inevitable but should not detract from this sort of contribution
(07:38:14 PM) dsas: DktrKranz has done loads of support tracker work, he overtook me on it quite quickly
(07:38:15 PM) DktrKranz: i would like to fill a new bug: "too much karma for a single user" :D
(07:38:17 PM) mdke: absolutely
(07:38:25 PM) popey: oi!
(07:38:29 PM) popey: not yet! :)
(07:39:12 PM) Seveas: karma overflow ;)
(07:39:13 PM) sabdfl: +1 from me just on the basis of support work
(07:39:17 PM) mdke: he's also very humble, I convinced him to apply this evening
(07:39:22 PM) DktrKranz: Seveas, :)
(07:39:32 PM) DktrKranz: i already heard it.....
(07:39:34 PM) sabdfl: DktrKranz: are you in touch with flacoste at all on improvements planned for the answer tracker?
(07:39:34 PM) elmo: ha ha ha
(07:39:39 PM) DktrKranz: yes
(07:39:42 PM) elmo: THIRTY FIVE MILLION
(07:39:50 PM) mdke: lol
(07:40:02 PM) sabdfl: elmo: yes, we know it doesn't track new servers installed in the datacenter and give karma for that...
(07:40:04 PM) DktrKranz: if he needs help in translating LP, count on me ok?
(07:40:06 PM) sladen: that's going to overflow soon!
(07:40:14 PM) dsas: I keep imagining little fingers going to mouths as people say that.
(07:40:15 PM) elmo: I vote +35,000,000
(07:40:19 PM) DktrKranz: ahah
(07:40:22 PM) popey: :)
(07:40:34 PM) sabdfl: on that happy note...
(07:40:38 PM) sabdfl: WELCOME ABOARD!
(07:40:43 PM) mdke: good work DktrKranz, keep it up
(07:40:47 PM) popey: \o/ welcome DktrKranz
(07:40:49 PM) dsas: well done Luca
(07:40:55 PM) DktrKranz: so 35.000.000 thanks :D
(07:40:56 PM) zenwhen: welcome
(07:41:02 PM) Gwaihir: good work DktrKranz
(07:41:09 PM) rpereir1: welcome.
(07:41:23 PM) DktrKranz: a specia thank to mdke, dsas and popey
(07:41:34 PM) DktrKranz: thanks Milo :D

(07:40:51 PM) sabdfl: i think that concludes another CC meeting of NOTE
(07:41:04 PM) sabdfl: seveas, thanks for keeping us on track
(07:41:08 PM) mdke: good meeting, thanks go to Seveas
(07:41:20 PM) Seveas: sabdfl, I'll keepmako on track tomorrow
(07:41:23 PM) sabdfl: will you send mako a transcript of everything after he left and ask him to ack+mark in LP those ones?
(07:41:25 PM) sabdfl: thanks
(07:41:29 PM) Seveas: have to go to bed now, have to get up in 5 hours
(07:41:37 PM) sabdfl: and please ack the ones we handled completely tonight, tomorrow :-)
(07:41:42 PM) Seveas: will do
(07:41:53 PM) sabdfl: so those email addresses should be available soon
(07:41:54 PM) sabdfl: thanks all
(07:41:56 PM) Seveas: g'night all!
</pre>
