{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week

* Saucy Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== General =====
* Ubuntu bot 'ubottu' was not around, so generated meeting minutes not available.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
* bug 1206961 "Include rbd and kvm modules in the virtual package" is now Fix Released on all supported releases.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) =====
* replace plars with psivaa

===== Meeting Actions =====

* everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week 

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
09/10/13 12:04:48 <smoser>	#startmeeting
09/10/13 12:04:49 <hallyn_>	arosales: i just did last week :)  don't have stuff ready, but can in 2 mins if it's not convenient for you
09/10/13 12:04:52 <hallyn_>	k
09/10/13 12:05:09 <smoser>	#startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
09/10/13 12:05:13 <arosales>	I can cover
09/10/13 12:05:38 <hallyn_>	hm?  not working?
09/10/13 12:05:44 <arosales>	or it looks like smoser
09/10/13 12:05:48 <smoser>	well, no bot i think
09/10/13 12:06:17 <smoser>	meetingology seems gone.
09/10/13 12:07:50 <arosales>	smoser, should we just proceed with out it?
09/10/13 12:07:57 <smoser>	give 3 minutes.
09/10/13 12:08:01 <smoser>	12:10. then go on without.
09/10/13 12:08:03 <smoser>	trying to find it.
09/10/13 12:10:05 <smoser>	k. 
09/10/13 12:10:08 <smoser>	12:10. i'll start
09/10/13 12:10:15 <smoser>	#startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
09/10/13 12:10:35 <smoser>	#topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting 
09/10/13 12:10:45 <smoser>	 * everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week 
09/10/13 12:10:56 <smoser>	i think i saw hallyn do that, but i'm not sure of anyone else, and I know i was delinquent.
09/10/13 12:11:14 <hallyn_>	wellt he list is still long enough that we could use another week of it
09/10/13 12:11:17 <smoser>	reguarding Meetingology, i pinged AlanBell just now as the contact per 
09/10/13 12:11:18 <hallyn_>	i may dedicate tomorrow to it
09/10/13 12:11:19 <smoser>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Bots
09/10/13 12:11:28 <smoser>	ok. so we'll push that again.
09/10/13 12:11:34 <smoser>	#action  everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week 
09/10/13 12:11:45 <smoser>	topic Saucy Development
09/10/13 12:11:47 <smoser>	#topic Saucy Development
09/10/13 12:11:55 <smoser>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule
09/10/13 12:12:15 <smoser>	We just passed Beta 1.  So we're moving towards a release some time.
09/10/13 12:12:29 <smoser>	utlemming cut beta-1 cloud images for us.  and we have daily images of those of course.
09/10/13 12:12:50 <smoser>	#topic ReleaseBugs
09/10/13 12:13:35 <smoser>	bug 1221906 seems like adam_g is on it.
09/10/13 12:13:36 <ubottu>	bug 1221906 in horizon (Ubuntu Saucy) "Havana-3 Dependency missing: python-troveclient" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1221906
09/10/13 12:13:45 <smoser>	bug 1208455.
09/10/13 12:13:46 <ubottu>	bug 1208455 in linux (Ubuntu Saucy) "general protection fault running apt-get inside double nested kvm VM" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1208455
09/10/13 12:13:49 <smoser>	smb did you make any progress there ?
09/10/13 12:13:57 <smb>	A bit
09/10/13 12:14:07 <AlanBell>	hi smoser
09/10/13 12:14:19 <smb>	Got a rough bisection done. Which leads to some rework of nested VMX code
09/10/13 12:14:22 <smoser>	hey, AlanBell . we're missing your bot. :)
09/10/13 12:14:35 <smb>	But I think I need some upstream help to dig deeper
09/10/13 12:14:43 <smoser>	smb, ok. thanks.
09/10/13 12:14:45 <smoser>	bug 1213915
09/10/13 12:14:46 <ubottu>	bug 1213915 in ceph (Ubuntu Saucy) "Please demote ceph-mds and ceph-fs-common to universe" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1213915
09/10/13 12:15:14 <smoser>	hm.. i'll leave that on jamespage. to push on a archive admin.
09/10/13 12:15:35 <smoser>	bug 1206872
09/10/13 12:15:37 <ubottu>	bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba fails to unpack (behavior change in patch) and ftbfs on aarch64" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1206872
09/10/13 12:17:06 <smoser>	that looks like incomplete at the moment... that should probably get off this list.
09/10/13 12:17:17 <smoser>	bug 1156932
09/10/13 12:17:19 <ubottu>	bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1156932
09/10/13 12:18:12 <smoser>	hm.. that seems languishing. wonder if still relevant.
09/10/13 12:18:20 <smoser>	bug 1199791
09/10/13 12:18:22 <ubottu>	bug 1199791 in nova (Ubuntu Saucy) "nova-compute-xcp misses nova-compute.conf" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1199791
09/10/13 12:18:54 <smoser>	bug 1170393 and bug 1222180 show fix-committed
09/10/13 12:18:57 <ubottu>	bug 1170393 in neutron (Ubuntu Saucy) "Quantum services should be respawned by upstart if necessary" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1170393
09/10/13 12:18:58 <ubottu>	bug 1222180 in postfix (Ubuntu Saucy) "postfix package produces errors in ubuntu-bug" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1222180
09/10/13 12:20:09 <smoser>	bug 1188069, mdeslaur should we not have fixed that in saucy?
09/10/13 12:20:11 <ubottu>	bug 1188069 in apache2 (Ubuntu Saucy) "apache2 mod_rewrite CVE 2013-1862" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1188069
09/10/13 12:20:56 <smoser>	ok. so i think we should probably do something to some of those bugs so that they're not on this list.  
09/10/13 12:21:22 <smoser>	bug 1206872 and bug 1156932 seem not really relevant.
09/10/13 12:21:24 <ubottu>	bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba fails to unpack (behavior change in patch) and ftbfs on aarch64" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1206872
09/10/13 12:21:25 <ubottu>	bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1156932
09/10/13 12:21:30 <smoser>	so moving on.
09/10/13 12:21:50 <smoser>	#topic blueprints
09/10/13 12:21:52 <smoser>	http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
09/10/13 12:22:26 <smoser>	well, that clearly shows we have a lot of work to do :)
09/10/13 12:22:38 <smoser>	please just take some time and get your pblueprints into order. 
09/10/13 12:23:00 <smoser>	i still have plenty of work to do. i fthere are things that you're not going to get to, consider postpone.
09/10/13 12:23:10 <smoser>	topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
09/10/13 12:23:13 <smoser>	#topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
09/10/13 12:23:16 <smoser>	plars,  ?
09/10/13 12:23:34 <plars>	smoser: you still have my name on this? :) but nothing this week, psivaa and I are both at a sprint
09/10/13 12:24:05 <smoser>	should your name not be here ?
09/10/13 12:24:12 <psivaa>	it would help to change it to mine
09/10/13 12:24:15 <smoser>	ok.
09/10/13 12:24:17 <smoser>	can-do
09/10/13 12:24:18 <psivaa>	thanks
09/10/13 12:24:20 <smoser>	#topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
09/10/13 12:24:24 <smb>	Xen-4.3 has been uploaded (but needs to be NEWed), thanks zul. Otherwise nothing to report. Any questions?
09/10/13 12:24:30 <plars>	smoser: I moved this to psivaa a while back, but we might ought to check if it should go to someone on the qa team or to him still
09/10/13 12:25:03 <smoser>	plars, updated https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
09/10/13 12:25:16 <smoser>	smb i dont have anything.
09/10/13 12:25:44 <smoser>	probably noteworth to many here.. bug 1206961 is now 'fix-released'
09/10/13 12:25:45 <smoser>	everywhere.
09/10/13 12:25:46 <ubottu>	bug 1206961 in linux (Ubuntu Saucy) "Include rbd and kvm modules in the virtual package" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1206961
09/10/13 12:26:12 <smoser>	which means if nested virt is available, you'll get it in a cloud image without having to reach for linux-image-extra-virtual.
09/10/13 12:26:28 <smoser>	#topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
09/10/13 12:26:29 <hallyn_>	(which means more ppl will hit the other bug)
09/10/13 12:26:37 <rbasak>	Nothing new to report. Any questions for me?
09/10/13 12:27:02 <smoser>	hallyn_, whats the other bug ? 
09/10/13 12:27:09 <hallyn_>	nested kvm on intel failing in saucy
09/10/13 12:27:12 <smoser>	ah. yeah.
09/10/13 12:27:20 <hallyn_>	(more ppl hitting it => good thing)
09/10/13 12:27:29 <smoser>	#topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
09/10/13 12:27:54 <smoser>	I think LinuxCon and CloudOpen are both next week.
09/10/13 12:28:00 <smoser>	ttx told me he was going.
09/10/13 12:28:22 <smoser>	anyone have anythign else?
09/10/13 12:28:30 <smoser>	#topic Open Discussion
09/10/13 12:28:44 <smoser>	i dont hae much here. just that we're really in crunch time in the cycle.
09/10/13 12:28:57 <smoser>	pleae file bugs and subscribe or assign people for work you know needs to be done.
09/10/13 12:29:03 <smoser>	#topic Announce next meeting date and time
09/10/13 12:30:04 <smoser>	next meeting will be Tuesday Sep 17 at 16:00 UTC
09/10/13 12:30:06 <smoser>	#endmeeting
09/10/13 12:38:18 <arosales>	smoser, thanks for chairing ubuntu server meeting
09/10/13 12:39:46 <mdeslaur>	smoser: re: 1188069: saucy isn't affected. Updated bug. Thanks.

</pre>
