{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=03&day=11&year=2013&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mar 11th 2013 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** UDS was last week. We should now have our blueprints in order with what we want to work on for March all in place. Thanks for all your hard work on this!
** Thanks to Luke Faraone (lfaraone) who provided debdiffs for lucid for openafs (LP: #1145560). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job!
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future
* work for the week)
** jdstrand
** short week
** weekly role: happy place
** chromium
** thunderbird
** 2 embargoed issues
** patch pilot
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: triage
** apache2
** php5
** embargoed issue
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
*** !AppArmor
*** display manager prototype and work items related to that
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** library label permission query api
*** dbus daemon, use library label permission query api
*** dbus daemon, use aa_getpeercon - dbus
*** eCryptfs maintenance work
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** more work on socket labeling
*** fixing stacking issues when the stack is split across a namespace
*** submit patches for review
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** audits - logind MIR
** !AppArmor patch review
** objectives
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-03-11-18.17.html
