{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by jamespage at 16:01:00 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-02-05-16.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting

* Raring Development
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule   (jamespage, 16:03:49)
** Release Bugs  (jamespage, 16:07:12)
''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server   (jamespage, 16:07:22)
** Blueprints  (jamespage, 16:10:40)
''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html   (jamespage, 16:10:45)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

* Open Discussion

* Announce next meeting date and time

Meeting ended at 16:23:08 UTC.

=== Votes ===
 
* (none)

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jamespage (49)
* hallyn (7)
* arosales (6)
* smoser (6)
* Daviey (5)
* smb (4)
* ubottu (3)
* meetingology (3)
* utlemming (2)
* rbasak (1)

=== Full Log ===

<pre>
 16:01:00 <jamespage> #startmeeting Ubuntu Server Team Meeting

 16:01:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb  5 16:01:00 2013 UTC.  The chair is jamespage. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:01:01 <meetingology> 

 16:01:01 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:01:25 <jamespage> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:01:43 <jamespage> utlemming to push A2 cloud image forwards

 16:02:16 <jamespage> utlemming: ?

 16:02:57 <jamespage> hmm OK - lets swing back to that one

 16:03:00 <utlemming> yes, I'll be pushign that

 16:03:06 <utlemming> there on track

 16:03:07 <jamespage> utlemming: +1 great

 16:03:23 <jamespage> #topic Raring Development

 16:03:49 <jamespage> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule

 16:03:53 <jamespage> just for reference

 16:04:09 <jamespage> A2 is due on the 14th

 16:04:48 <jamespage> Daviey: did we agree todo A2 iso images as well?

 16:04:56 <smoser> whee!

 16:05:01 <Daviey> jamespage: not yet

 16:05:14 <smoser> Daviey, how about a compromise on that....

 16:05:22 <jamespage> well it feels like a pertinent moment to discuss that right now

 16:05:30 <Daviey> can we just wait out for now?

 16:05:40 <smoser> surely we can make a concerted effort on iso test in coordination with next tuesday.

 16:05:55 <smoser> and just not label anything "alpha 2".

 16:06:16 <Daviey> That is the direction we are heading, but there is still some ongoing planning

 16:06:22 <smoser> that seems like a sane compromise to me.

 16:06:31 <smoser> k.

 16:06:41 <jamespage> right-oh - I guess thats an action we can take as a team without committing to a full A2

 16:07:05 <jamespage> next

 16:07:12 <jamespage> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:07:22 <jamespage> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:08:04 <jamespage> looks like hallyn has a few libvirt/qemu/kvm/lxc bugs spinning

 16:08:24 <hallyn> do ?

 16:08:36 <jamespage> hallyn: hrm bug 1113821

 16:08:39 <ubottu> bug 1113821 in libvirt (Ubuntu Raring) "libvirt-bin deletes /etc/dnsmasq.d/libvirt-bin on upgrade" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1113821

 16:08:53 <hallyn> jamespage: stgraber is trying a symlink approach to fix that

 16:09:04 <hallyn> for the udev one, i need to re-sync with pitti on that

 16:09:11 <jamespage> hallyn: ack

 16:09:27 <jamespage> thats bug 1092715 for reference

 16:09:28 <ubottu> bug 1092715 in qemu-kvm (Ubuntu Raring) "udevadm trigger --action=change not working in quantal and raring" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1092715

 16:10:04 <hallyn> right really is followed in bug 1103022

 16:10:06 <ubottu> bug 1103022 in udev (Ubuntu) "70-udev-acl.rules needs to put g+rw on /dev/kvm" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1103022

 16:10:21 <jamespage> this list still feels incomplete; hopefully I'll have a bit of time in the next 7 days to try to get it sorted

 16:10:40 <jamespage> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:10:45 <jamespage> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html

 16:11:29 <jamespage> looks like most people managed to have a swing through their BP's since last week

 16:12:16 <jamespage> I'm not going to call out any specific BP's this week; does anyone else have any specific BP related items they wanted to raise?

 16:13:19 <jamespage> OK - moving on

 16:13:25 <jamespage> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:13:37 <jamespage> anyone going anywhere nice in the next few weeks?

 16:13:52 <arosales> scale11x

 16:13:56 <arosales> coming up

 16:14:30 <jamespage> arosales: who's attending?

 16:14:38 <arosales> jcastro and m_3

 16:14:44 <arosales> fosdem went well?

 16:14:49 <jamespage> marvellous

 16:14:58 <jamespage> arosales: yeah - it rocked as normal

 16:15:10 <arosales> btw, scale11x is feb 22-24 (http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale11x/)

 16:15:16 <jamespage> far to much to hear about tho :-)

 16:15:18 <hallyn> plumbers coming up

 16:15:24 <hallyn> well, in september

 16:15:28 <arosales> cool to hear about fosdem

 16:15:45 <jamespage> hallyn: golly - thats advanced notice!

 16:15:59 <hallyn> jamespage: heh, i like to be prepared.

 16:16:16 <jamespage> OK; so if there is no other events...

 16:16:19 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:16:27 <jamespage> hggdh: around?

 16:17:09 <jamespage> nope - guess not - how about plars?

 16:17:43 * jamespage likes to put folk on the spot but that's not working today :-(

 16:18:00 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:18:20 <smb> There were a few new Xen CVEs released just today

 16:18:40 <smb> Hm, otherwise fighting with one machine with "interesting" mtrr setup...

 16:18:54 <smb> Any questions for me?

 16:18:54 <smb> ..

 16:19:33 <jamespage> smb: I think you are off the hook this week...

 16:19:44 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:19:55 <rbasak> Nothing new to report. Any questions for me?

 16:20:45 <jamespage> sounds like no to me

 16:20:51 <jamespage> #topic Open Discussion

 16:21:46 <Daviey> Nothing here, thanks

 16:21:52 <jamespage> anyone else?

 16:21:55 <jamespage> for anything else?

 16:22:29 <jamespage> OK

 16:22:37 <jamespage> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:22:59 <jamespage> 12th Feb @1600 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting

 16:23:05 <Daviey> shortest meeting yet.

 16:23:08 <jamespage> #endmeeting
</pre>

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
