{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
* LeadershipCodeofConduct was approved - thanks Mako, Jono!
* ForumsGovernance document was approved - thank you Ryan, Mako, jono and CC!
* It was decided not to move off Freenode
* Elections and confirmations for new CC members will happen in January
* New position of CC Secretary, with Seveas as initial office bearer, approved

=== Membership ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
05:03	cjwatson	let the enormous agenda of death begin
05:03	cjwatson	oh, I guess we should wait for sabdfl and mako to /join
05:04	sabdfl	hey ho all you merry members
05:05	sabdfl	it's been a while
05:05	sabdfl	sorry about that - lots of travel for the whole team
05:05	sabdfl	but
05:05	sabdfl	also lots of productive community-related discussions at UDS mountain view
05:05	sabdfl	thanks to everyone who participated there
05:05	sabdfl	directly and via voip / gobby / wiki / irc
05:05	sabdfl	so
05:06	sabdfl	we have some excellent structural items up for comment and approval
05:06	sabdfl	we also want to set a timetable for the expansion of the CC
05:07	sabdfl	looking at the agenda, there's an item missing, which is the proposal of seveas as a CC Secretary, a new role
05:07	Seveaz	sabdfl: are there other CC members somewhere?
05:07	elmo	seveaz: colin and I are here
05:07	elmo	mako was around, he should be here shortly
05:07	Seveaz	elmo: merci and hi
05:07	sabdfl	mako was on a call with us a second ago
05:08	mako	greetings
05:08	sabdfl	ok, on to the agenda
05:09	sabdfl	Seveas, around?
05:10	Seveaz	sabdfl: I'm at work now so different nick
05:10	sabdfl	Seveaz: please add the secretary proposal to the end of the agenda
05:09	mako	unfortunately, i have not been able to go through all of my canonical mail from over the weekend so may not as up to date on every issue as i should be
05:09	mako	i should also mention that i will probably have to go in 1.5 or 2 hours, but am happy to catch up later this afternoon on anything i miss
05:09	mako	but we should try to handle things that have a lot of discussion before
05:10	jono	ok, so is the Leadership CoC first?
05:10	sabdfl	Leadership Code of Conduct
05:10	sabdfl	thanks to mako, jono and others for pulling this together
05:11	sabdfl	i think it's important, especially in the context of the various team councils that are being set up
05:11	mako	if they haven't already, people should read it
05:11	jono	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LeadershipCodeofConduct by the way
05:11	mako	if they see anything major missing, or something major that shouldn't be there that is, it would be good to know
05:12	mako	obviously, since i wrote it, i'm pretty happy with ti.
05:12	Belutz	do the LoCo leader have to sign this leadership CoC?
05:12	sabdfl	yes, LoCo team leaders, and other senior CC-appointed teams (and of course the CC ;-)) will be held to this standard
05:12	sabdfl	i've reviewed and made a few tweaks
05:12	mako	sabdfl: you're the only one :)
05:12	cjwatson	"conflicts of interest"> I think the emphasis is the wrong way round in the third sentence
05:12	cjwatson	should be that perceived conflicts of interest are as important as real ones?
05:12	sabdfl	cjwatson: good point
05:13	mako	cjwatson: yes
05:13	lophyte	is that only for approved LoCo teams?
05:13	jono	lophyte: all leaders are expected to abide by it
05:13	jono	lophyte: and the approval process for loco teams will observe this
05:13	sabdfl	lophyte: for anyone that purports to take a leadership role in a LoCo team
05:13	sabdfl	in other words, if you are driving a team or claiming to, for part of ubuntu, then you should expect people to hold you to this standard
05:14	sabdfl	just like people in an IRC channel or forum or mailing list might say to someone, "dude, read the CoC, I think that's a bit out of line"
05:14	mako	it's seen as something like the code of conduct
05:14	mako	not a stick, but a high-level set of principles we except leaders to live up to
05:14	sabdfl	folks will likely remind leaders of this document if they are forgetting the guidelines
05:14	lophyte	jono, sabdfl: excellent :)
05:14	mako	that's right
05:13	Belutz	jono: when is the deadline for the approved loco teams?
05:14	jono	Belutz: there is no deadline, but we expect loco leaders to abide by the Leadership CoC - this is why we are presenting it to the CC for approval
05:14	jono	Belutz: most leaders have the qualities in that document fairly innately
05:14	sabdfl	ok, so any additional comments on the document?
05:15	mruiz	jono: what is the difference between LoCo leader and LoCo contact? This CoC is only for leaders?
05:15	mako	mruiz: the lcoc is for anyone in a leadership position in ubuntu
05:15	jono	mruiz: if a team has a leader, or puts themself in a position of leadership, they should abide by the LCoC
05:16	theCore	how new leaders will be nominated?
05:16	Seveaz	theCore: that's different per team
   05:15	sabdfl	can I ask CC members to +1 or -1 the document as it stands, pending possible typo or tweaks, no "editorial changes"?
05:16	cjwatson	sabdfl: I did some minor tweaks just now
05:16	MikeB-	the document is fine, one comment I have is if there is ever a CoC 2.0 made, the LCoC should be merge into it. Many of the ideas of the LCoC can be applied to ever Ubuntu community member
05:17	mako	MikeB-: fair enough
05:17	sabdfl	if you form a team, called, say "ubuntu-advocacy-it", and announce it, and want to be an organiser, then you should expect people to hold you to this standard even if you did this without any formal appointment by the CC
05:17	sabdfl	you are overtly taking a leadership role
05:17	sabdfl	and anyone participating in the ubuntu community, in its broadest sense, should know what they can expect from their leaders
05:17	ubuntugeek	hmm so does this mean that any (ubuntuforums) staff member should be bound to the lcoc as well? Or should only admins/fc be bound to this?
05:17	mako	right, the CoC doesn't just apply to people who have officially agreed it to or become ubunteros.. it sets the tone for the community
05:18	theCore	sabdfl, ah, that makes more sense
05:18	theCore	thanks
05:18	mako	likewise, this wouldn't only apply to people in officially delegated positions but anyone in a leadership position to the community
05:18	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: i think you will find that forums members hold moderators to this standard
05:18	sabdfl	same with irc participants and IRC ops
05:18	sabdfl	the nice thing is, there is still room for context-specific guidelines and processes
05:18	sabdfl	like the forums guys with their dispute resolution processes
05:19	sabdfl	and the mailing list etiquette guidelines
05:19	sabdfl	and IRC ops guidelines
05:19	sabdfl	this is a nice general statement of core values
05:19	MikeB-	ubuntugeek: I think the staff is viewed and acts as leaders
05:19	jono	indeed
05:19	mako	ubuntugeek: it's high level, people aren't often (ever?) punished for violating it. but it's a set of ideals that we agree to agree on
05:19	mako	like the CoC
05:19	markvandenborre	I really like it
05:19	cjwatson	the thing I'd like people to take away from this is that holding a position of authority is a contract - you have certain privileges in exchange for certain responsibilities
05:18	PriceChild	ubuntugeek: sabdfl: What about moderators who are currently on leave? Surely things like the stepping down during extended absences can't apply.
05:19	sabdfl	PriceChild: interesting. in the case of moderation, you are not *blocking* decisions by not stepping down
05:20	sabdfl	i think it may be worth clarifying this
05:20	ubuntu_demon	sabdfl : +1
05:20	sabdfl	in other words, where a leadership position has a quorum impact on decisions, its important to step down
05:20	sabdfl	where it's just about having additional permissions, and others can take up the slack without you stepping down, then there's more flexibility
05:20	cjwatson	this is a sort of statement of the general kinds of responsibilities that people in authority tend to have
05:20	cjwatson	as part of general leadership decency
05:20	PriceChild	sabdfl: ubuntugeek: ok gotcha. Btw, I have no problem with the LCoC or CoC, to me they're just common courtesy.
05:20	mako	PriceChild: that's the idea
05:21	ubuntu_demon	I really like the LCoC and CoC
05:21	sabdfl	PriceChild: you'd be amazed how useful it is to document common courtesy, given the diversity in age, nationality, culture, language, background, etc in a community this big
05:21	cjwatson	sabdfl: "If an absence becomes extended, [and this absence will get in the way of other people's work,]  they should step down ..." ?
05:22	ubuntu_demon	cjwatson: I like that added part
05:22	PriceChild	sabdfl: It is very useful having a solid document to be able to refer "naughty" users to.
05:22	cjwatson	I wouldn't really want to use the term "naughty" of leaders :-)
05:22	PriceChild	That's a polite word for it anyway...
05:22	theCore	"Leaders in Ubuntu can not and will not stay leaders only because they got there first."  How leaders will be changed?
05:22	jono	the LCoC not onl document courtesy but identifies core leadership values, that like sabdfl says, can be built upon inside each team
05:22	SD-Plissken	So what. you guys are saying that one can not give courtesy and respect with out following the CoC rules?
05:22	cjwatson	theCore: this isn't a statement of process
05:22	somerville32	What level of professionalism should volunteers in leadership positions (such as an IRC Operator or Team Leader) be expected to maintain?
05:23	ubuntugeek	"Leaders in Ubuntu can not and will not stay leaders only because they got there first"
05:23	ubuntugeek	sure they can..
05:23	ubuntugeek	why not
05:23	anto9us	If I can interject something that might be missing from the lcoc doc, and that is that leaders often treat each other in ways that might be mis-perceived by some as inappropriate, like kicking each other from the IRC-channels for example, it's fun perhaps for the ops but open to interpretation as bullying or flexing of IRC muscle, to my mind, it's an example of setting a bad example
05:23	Seveaz	ubuntugeek: others may be more competent
05:23	Seveaz	or more available
05:23	Seveaz	or better smelling
05:23	Seveaz	or ....
05:23	ubuntugeek	huh
05:23	lophyte	just because you got there first, doesn't mean you're a good leader
05:24	elmo	ubuntugeek: it doesn't mean to imply that if they're fine, and the only thing is that they were there first, that they have to be replaced
05:24	LoudMouthMan	lophyte: indeed.
05:24	cjwatson	ubuntugeek: depends on the leader. I'm stepping down from the CC because I think others who have got less worn-out will do a better job than I can.
05:24	cjwatson	ubuntugeek: but that doesn't mean I think the other CC members ought to do the same
05:24	ubuntugeek	Sure..
05:25	jono	anto9us: that is in some ways a separate issue - bullying is unacceptable, but there is no way we can develop policy and guidelines around "playful banter"
05:25	ubuntu_demon	in case of ubuntugeek it's in the ForumsGovernance document that he has a lifetime membership of the Forums Council as long as ubuntugeek (Ryan) follows the LCoC
05:25	cjwatson	ubuntugeek: I think the point is "*only* because" - if folks deserve to continue leading their community, there are certainly other "because"s
05:25	mako	ubuntugeek: the operative word is *only*
05:25	ubuntugeek	ud: ah, which i never really agreed to. the lcoc was added our calls
05:26	mako	ubuntugeek: if the *only* reason someone maintains a leadership position is because they got their first, that seems like a bit of a bum deal
05:26	sabdfl	ok, i've modded the doc to address the difference between blocking and non-blocking absences
05:26	sabdfl	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LeadershipCodeofConduct?action=diff
05:26	PriceChild	Thanks sabdfl
05:26	ubuntu_demon	ubuntugeek : the lcoc was mentioned during one of these conference calls about the forums. I'm sure you overheard. But it's not very important as long as you agree :)
05:26	mako	ubuntugeek, ubuntu_demon: but this document wasn't written when we had the last call. that's why we're talking about it now
05:26	ubuntu_demon	mako : yeah
05:27	MikeB-	as I see it, the LCoC is a guideline, a document to give us direction, and should never be use as a stick to weild over people
05:27	mako	ubuntugeek couldn't have been expected to agree in advance to an unwritten document :)
05:27	ubuntu_demon	mako : true. although it's a nice document :)
05:27	mako	ubuntu_demon: i agree :)
05:27	ubuntugeek	hah
05:27	ubuntugeek	wow ego's
05:27	ubuntu_demon	:-p
05:28	mako	ubuntugeek: ;)
05:28	ubuntugeek	not amused..
05:28	MikeB-	all cases will have to be bought to the CC, FC , or whatever counsil
05:28	cjwatson	one problem we have had in the past, in Debian or Ubuntu or whatever, is team leaders wandering off and everyone else being stuck unable to get anything done
05:28	cjwatson	it's a pretty real problem
05:28	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: satisfied with the language?
05:28	popey	indeed, LUGs have the same problem
05:28	ubuntugeek	sure ok, lets move on then.. we can address the lcoc i am bound to when we talk about the governance
05:28	kalon33	sure popey
05:29	ubuntu_demon	ubuntugeek : IMHO it's important that you address it now if you have any issues with it. Then it can be improved.
05:30	sabdfl	this is not a legal document
05:30	sabdfl	it will be difficult to "bind" anyone to it
05:30	anto9us	jono, yes, I make a specific point as an example and yes I agree it's a separate issue, though I wouldn't wish for a policy around that specifically so much as awareness of potential issues that might arise from the playful banter, to some seeing someone being kicked strikes up a fight or flight response
05:30	ubuntugeek	thats fine.. nothing further from me
05:30	sabdfl	most of what happens in the ubuntu community is based on goodwill and good faith
05:30	cjwatson	it's more important to say what we expect so that people know what they're "signing up for" when they take on leadership positions
05:30	effie_jayx	sabdfl,  there is still moral respnsibility
05:30	sabdfl	i think it will be clear the circumstances under which someone is not really following this LCoC
05:30	cjwatson	if you've not been in a leadership kind of position before, sometimes it's not all obvious
05:30	SD-Plissken	How is it not a legal doc. your asking folks to abide by it,and conform the rules in it sabdfl
05:31	jono	anto9us: sure, and I think this is something we can discuss and develop as a separate case
05:31	sabdfl	i don't think it will ever turn into a legalistic, clause-by-clause thing
05:31	mako	right, introducing something like this retroactively is a bit tricky, so it's important to get consensus or identify issues now among people who are currently in leadership positions
05:31	mako	right, i think it's more like the CoC
05:31	cjwatson	SD-Plissken: it's not "you're violating clause 3, subsection 7. bzzt" - it's an informal statement of values
05:31	mako	people invoke it frequently enough, but rarely "apply" it
05:31	cjwatson	er clause <-> subsection but you know what I mean :-)
05:31	ubuntu_demon	mako : +1. IMHO it's important that all big community leaders give their input on the document right now .. before it's getting approved
05:32	sabdfl	to be specific, i would not ask ubuntugeek to step down form the forums council because of a single incident or issue, which is i think what was worrying ubuntugeek, given the context of our UDS forums discussions
05:32	ubuntugeek	sabdfl: correct
05:32	sabdfl	i am happy with ubuntugeek's life-long position on the FC, it's an unusual concession but i think it's well deserved
05:33	sabdfl	making it subject to the LCoC is really only a convenient way of saying "stay engaged and stay constructive"
05:33	jono	I agree with sabdfl that it would be pretty clear if someone was not acting within the spirit of the LCoC
05:33	ubuntu_demon	sabdfl: +1 IMHO ubuntugeek deserves to be a lifelong member of the FC
05:33	SD-Plissken	cjwatson I don't by that. the simple fact is if you dont abide by it your brought up for repremand or asked to remove yourself. rules are writen to be inforced. I highly doubt these where written in hohum fashion.
05:34	cjwatson	SD-Plissken: guidelines, not rules
05:35	SD-Plissken	Fine guidelines. and the fact still stand if you don't follow the guideline theres reprocutions.
05:33	sabdfl	i would not invoke the LCoC unless there was BROAD consensus that that was not the case
05:33	sabdfl	like, someone doesn't show up to meetings for months
05:33	sabdfl	i have to be a bit careful here myself ;-)
05:33	mako	sabdfl: that's right
05:33	jono	indeed
05:33	mako	sabdfl: the whole thing, not just that you need to be careful.. ALTHOUGH YOU DO
05:34	sabdfl	ok, so, can i ask CC members to +1 or -1 the document as it stands?
05:34	sabdfl	we're 30 minutes in and have a lot of ground to cover
05:34	mako	i'll abstain since i had a such a large role in drafting it
05:34	sabdfl	mako: please don't!
05:34	cjwatson	rules are written to be enforced, but guidelines are written so that people know where they stand
05:34	jono	I think you should vote mako
05:34	mako	fine, +1 from me
05:34	jono	mako: you would not write it if you disagreed with it
05:35	mako	jono: right, that's why i wouldn't vote against it :)
05:35	cjwatson	sabdfl: +1, we've already gone over the bits I thought were wonky and changed them
05:35	elmo	+1
05:35	jono	mako: woo!
05:35	sabdfl	+1 form me too
05:35	sabdfl	super, thanks mako, jono, CC
05:35	cjwatson	sabdfl: oh, perhaps we should make it even more clear that they're not meant for rigid enforcement
05:35	cjwatson	it does say so at the top, but it could be clearer to stave off paranoia
05:35	sabdfl	DONE
05:35	jono	:)
05:36	sabdfl	it does say "a set of guidelines"
05:36	mako	alright lets move on
05:36	mako	my time here is limited
05:36	sabdfl	so let's leave it as it stands, we can clarify it if someone cites the LCoC in a lawsuit :-)
05:36	cjwatson	SD-Plissken: I'd expect that in general if people were acting out of character for how we'd like leaders to behave, we'd talk to them first, not treat them like naughty children

05:36	mako	the forums governance document is next
05:37	sabdfl	i'll come out up front and say i'm opposed
05:37	sabdfl	(sorry, mako, want to address IRC issue)
05:37	sabdfl	i understand there are some issues
05:37	mako	oh, ok
05:38	sabdfl	but i don't think the folks proposing the move have come up with very strong arguments
05:38	sabdfl	freenode appears to be doing OK despite the loss of lilo
05:38	sabdfl	the #canonical issue was never, in my mind, a forcing function for an ubuntu community decision, and its resolved now in any event
05:38	cjwatson	the original GetOffFreenodeSpec was prompted by concerns about #canonical - that's since been moved to a private server so seems moot
05:39	sabdfl	ok, so does anyone on the CC want to take up the case for moving?
05:39	cjwatson	sabdfl: no, I was sort of +0 anyway and am uninterested now
05:39	sabdfl	ok, can we vote briefly?
05:39	sabdfl	-1
05:40	sabdfl	i would rather we vote, take a decision, than just defer it indefinitely
05:40	cjwatson	-0, seems like lots of work for little gain now
05:40	elmo	-0
05:40	sabdfl	mako?
05:41	mako	sabdfl: i'm not going to rock the boat
05:41	sabdfl	mako: +1, -1, 0?
05:41	mako	0
05:41	sabdfl	ok
05:41	sabdfl	guess i have to take the bullet ;-)
05:41	sabdfl	CC decides to decline the proposal, we can of course discuss this again in future if the situation changes
=== gnomefreak never seena tie before
05:42	cjwatson	gnomefreak: that wasn't a tie, it was -1/4
05:42	mako	i'm sympathetic for arguements from both side, but don't see a mandate for moving from the community
05:42	apokryphos	I think it would've been useful to get input from people on the IRC ops council on this issue too

05:42	sabdfl	Seveas: what's next?
05:42	Seveaz	sabdfl: forums guidelines
05:42	sabdfl	ok, we had extensive and ultimately very positive, constructive discussions on this during mountain view
05:43	sabdfl	i think everyone in the CC wants to give the Forums full recognition and integration in the the ubuntu community
05:43	sabdfl	so thanks to those who devoted a lot of time to the discussions
05:43	jono	the document is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumsGovernance
05:43	ubuntugeek	I have no issues at this time with the FG.. we discussed it in detail at the mds
05:44	sabdfl	one thing that i think is worth pointing out is that a lot of this thinking has been generalised to other teams too
05:44	mako	yeah, i'm excited that it looks like we're finally ready to move forward with this.. it's way, way past time that the forums be given full recognition for the central role they've played
05:44	sabdfl	so this effort pays off not just for Forums but for other growing parts of the community
05:44	sabdfl	like the MOTU
05:44	sabdfl	these guidelines, structures etc will get duplicated and re-used
05:44	ubuntu_demon	Maybe we should ask if there are people who have big issues with the document ?
05:44	sabdfl	so a worthwhile investment of time and thinking from ubuntugeek, jono, mako, ubuntu_demon, MikeB-, CC and many others
05:45	sabdfl	can we take out the "This a draft. Everything here is completely open for discussion and reevaluation."
05:45	mako	the only procedural clarification i'd like to make now (which i think is clear in the document), is that council, when initially created, won't immediately be able to create ubuntu members
05:45	mako	sabdfl: i'd love to
05:46	sabdfl	ok, i'm going to chop off the top and bottom which are focused on the discussion, so what we have left is the RESULT and the document for approval by the CC
05:46	mako	sabdfl: i just chopped off the top
05:46	ubuntu_demon	mako : the CC will guide the FC in the process of creating ubuntu members right ? So maybe current forum staff on the CC agenda can be the first to go through this new process
05:47	ubuntugeek	ud: I think we were going to get to the election of ubuntu members down the road at some point
05:47	jono	so are there any aspects that anyone wishes to discuss about the document?
05:48	mako	ubuntu_demon, ubuntugeek: that's right, soon, we just need to see a few of the FC members here as we  go through the process so we're sure everyone is on the same page in terms of qualifications for membership
05:48	mako	ubuntugeek, ubuntu_demon: we've done that with all of the councils as well
05:49	ubuntugeek	none here.. I would like to note per our conversations at mds.. the FC would be formed initially of myself, john and mike with the nominations of two others to sit on the fc with us.. i dont see that on the document
05:49	ubuntu_demon	mako : yeah great . There are a few forum staff who want to become Ubuntu Members. There's at least one on the current CC agenda (I haven't had time to take a good look at it)
05:49	jono	ubuntugeek: which Mike?
05:49	ubuntugeek	kiwinz braniff
05:49	jono	right
05:49	PriceChild	ubuntu_demon: I'm one :)
05:50	SD-Plissken	ubuntugeek now theres the question who will pick the other two parties to sit with you?
05:50	ubuntu_demon	kiwinz and john (jdong) are both forum admins
05:50	sabdfl	ok, i've taken out all the "discussion" stuff
05:50	sabdfl	so the doc represents a clear proposal
05:50	sabdfl	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumsGovernance?action=diff
05:50	ubuntugeek	sd-.. the admins have already discussed and chosen..
05:50	mako	ubuntugeek: right, we need the full list so we can approve it
05:51	ubuntu_demon	SD-Plissken: IMHO Ryan can start with 3 admins as FC or 3 admins + 2 others (chosen by Ryan as well)
05:51	sabdfl	to be clear, the nominations should come from the CC, not just approval of forums admins decisions
05:51	ubuntugeek	mako: full list of what?
05:51	sabdfl	the process is laid out in the FG doc
05:51	mako	ubuntugeek: candidates, namely the two others
05:51	mako	ubuntugeek: sorry, forum *council* members
05:51	ubuntugeek	i was under the impression to initialize this process we were going to select
05:52	sabdfl	the initial FC is 3 members (ryan troy, mike braniff, john dong)
05:52	sabdfl	we need to expand that to 5
05:52	ubuntugeek	Right
05:52	sabdfl	process is cc appointment in consultation with [list of stakeholders]
05:53	sabdfl	i'd like to get to 5 quick, and think it's reasonable for the FC (of 3) to put up some names
05:53	sabdfl	if the CC is happy, we can JDI
05:53	ubuntugeek	Thats fine
05:54	ubuntu_demon	what does JD stand for ?
05:54	sabdfl	Just Do It
05:54	ubuntu_demon	okay thanks :)
05:54	ubuntugeek	mikeb and matthew are our two selections.
05:54	sabdfl	intro to matthew? i think the CC has met MikeB in Moutnain View
05:54	mako	sabdfl: so, to clarify, is the idea to vote on this now with the initial list of three
05:54	cjwatson	mikeb as in Basinger?
05:54	cjwatson	which matthew?
05:54	ubuntugeek	cjwatson: correct
05:54	ubuntu_demon	ubuntugeek : Do mikeb and matthew know you have nominated them ?
05:55	sabdfl	mako: if we have 2 good candidates, i think we all win with a fast decision on the expansion as well as the FG docs
05:55	sabdfl	ubuntu_demon: heh, good point
=== mako nods
05:55	sabdfl	they do, of course, have to want the position :-)
05:55	ubuntu_demon	matthew and mikeb are two fine forum moderaters who have been active in the staff for quite some time
05:55	ubuntugeek	http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=17635
05:55	mako	well, MikeB- knows now :)
05:55	PriceChild	+1 on that ubuntu_demon
05:55	ubuntugeek	ud: yes they know
05:55	MikeB-	ubuntugeek asked me a couple of weeks ago, I would be honored
05:56	jenda	I'd second that too, ubuntu_demon.
05:56	ubuntugeek	and both accepted
05:56	sabdfl	has this been publicly discussed by forums staff?
05:56	sabdfl	since we're approving the FG doc, it seems sane to make sure it's followed :-)
05:56	ubuntugeek	matthew is a fine moderator who has take the intuitive to excel his role on the forums.
05:57	sabdfl	but, has it been publicly discussed with forums staff?
05:57	ubuntu_demon	sabdfl: AFAIK it's not been publicly discussed with forums staff (it's new to me but I've been quite busy lately with school)
05:57	sabdfl	are both candidates ubuntu members?
05:58	ubuntugeek	no clue
05:58	jenda	MikeB-: is candidating now
05:58	MikeB-	sabdfl: appliying today
05:58	sabdfl	(it would be a trivial +1 given their contributions to the forum, clearly)
05:58	MikeB-	:), Vote Mike!
05:58	ubuntu_demon	is matthew here now ?
05:58	ubuntugeek	i dont think he could make it
05:58	sabdfl	ok, CC, how do you feel about dealing with MikeB now, and asking for more on matthew?
05:58	jenda	matthew is an ubuntu member
05:58	sabdfl	the doc says
05:58	jenda	https://launchpad.net/people/matthelmke
05:58	sabdfl	- ubuntu member
05:58	sabdfl	- public wiki page
05:58	elmo	trivial +1 on MikeB-
05:59	cjwatson	ditto elmo
05:59	MikeB-	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MikeBasinger
05:59	mako	sabdfl: we've seen matthelmkde before,
05:59	sabdfl	- opinions from forums staff, admins (we have that)
05:59	cjwatson	matthew is already in ubuntumembers, good
05:59	ubuntu_demon	+1 for MikeB
05:59	jenda	mako: careful, mdke = Matthew East
05:59	sabdfl	yeah, all i'm looking for is a bit more public process within the Forums on matthew's nomination to FC
06:00	cjwatson	MikeB-: could you stick a link to your launchpad page on your wiki page? thanks
06:00	mako	jenda: while tricky, i think i can keep my matthe's straight ;)
06:00	sabdfl	mako: we've hired a BUNCH more at Canonical :-)
06:00	SD-Plissken	sabdfl matthew and mike are both good to go,and standup guys.
06:00	sabdfl	not all of whom, i think, are straight
06:00	jenda	hehe :)
06:00	ubuntu_demon	sabdfl: the best way to get more forums input is discussing it in our private staff forum. Personally I support these two candidates (I didn't know about them being nominated)
06:00	ubuntugeek	sd-plissken is a moderator
06:01	ubuntugeek	you have enough feedback here to proceed
06:01	PriceChild	For what its worth I'll back both of them also - moderator
06:01	mako	i'm thrilled with MikeB- for membership
06:01	sabdfl	ok, let's vote on MikeB for ubuntu membership, then for FC membership, and ask ubuntugeek to coordinate more public discussion on matthew amongst forums staff
06:01	ubuntu_demon	ubuntugeek : that's true as well. How many forum staff are here now ?
06:01	mako	the documentation only confirms that i thought before
06:01	ubuntugeek	mako: ?
06:01	cjwatson	I think we've already voted on MikeB for membership. :)
06:02	sabdfl	so we have mako +1 on mikeb, and i will +1 too
06:02	cjwatson	16:58 < elmo> trivial +1 on MikeB-
06:02	cjwatson	16:59 < cjwatson> ditto elmo
06:02	sabdfl	ok, and cjwatson too, so well done mikeb
06:02	mako	ubuntugeek: documentation on his wiki page, etc
06:02	mako	ubuntugeek: lots of contributions, activity on the forums, etc
06:02	MikeB-	my thanks to you all
06:02	sabdfl	welcome
06:02	ogra	MikeB-, congrats and welcome
06:02	jono	congratulations MikeB-
06:02	ubuntu_demon	congratiolations MikeB ! :)
06:02	sabdfl	+1 from me also for MikeB on the FC
06:02	PriceChild	well done MikeB-
06:02	cjwatson	MikeB-: (will need a launchpad account name to put that into effect)
06:03	mako	right, i'm happy with both both MikeB- and matthew (for tha matter) on the FC
06:03	ubuntu_demon	mako : me too
06:03	elmo	what mako said
06:03	sabdfl	ok, +1 from mako on both MikeB and matthew
06:03	ubuntu_demon	(although I'm not a CC member :))
06:04	sabdfl	i'd like more evidence of open forums discussion on matthew, but if the rest of the CC +1's him i'll roll with it
06:04	ubuntugeek	us three admins discussed it.. thats good enough, the fg isnt even in place yet.
06:04	ubuntugeek	if it was we would have taken another direction
06:05	sabdfl	ok, let's vote on the FG doc
06:05	sabdfl	+1 from me on that
06:05	cjwatson	I'm ok with MikeB and matthew, since the forums staff are happy
06:05	elmo	+1 from me on FG
06:05	ubuntu_demon	Great!
06:06	mako	+1 from me as well
06:06	ubuntu_demon	ubuntugeek : well chosen on matthew and mikeB
06:06	mako	lets edit that document to include a list of FC members
06:06	ubuntugeek	We will introduce the fc changes on the forums within the next week.
06:07	mako	ubuntugeek: sounds good
06:08	ubuntu_demon	So the FG did pass right ?
06:08	sabdfl	cjwatson: vote on the FG doc?
06:08	mako	ubuntu_demon: it's about to
06:09	sabdfl	no pressure :-)
06:09	ubuntu_demon	I see ... cjwatson's vote is still missing :)
06:09	cjwatson	no issues with the FG document, pending approval of the initial FC members
06:09	sabdfl	aren't they separate issues?
06:09	sabdfl	one is process, the other is candidates?
06:09	cjwatson	sabdfl: erm, yeah, seems like it
06:10	cjwatson	so no issues from me
06:10	sabdfl	thumbs up or down?
06:10	cjwatson	up
06:10	ubuntugeek	ok so we good on the fc+fg stuff?
06:10	sabdfl	brilliant
06:10	jono	fantastic
06:10	sabdfl	OK, so CC approves the FG document, with much thanks to those who helped write it
06:10	ubuntu_demon	Great!
06:10	kalon33	cool !
06:11	MikeB-	woot!
06:11	cjwatson	open discussion on matthew wouldn't hurt, thinking about it - maybe make that one pending? shouldn't take long
06:11	sabdfl	we have a full house of +1's on MikeB
06:11	ubuntugeek	+1 matthew
06:11	ubuntugeek	or we cant move forward
06:11	sabdfl	so MikeB is on the FG, and i think it's worth asking ubuntugeek to host a discussion on matthew as the next candidate
06:11	sabdfl	in the forums
06:11	mako	we should also thanks ubuntugeek for bearing through this process.. and for all of his other work making the forums so great :)
06:11	PriceChild	sabdfl: public or staff discussion?
06:11	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: yes we can, FG doc is approved, you have a council of 4 including yourself, and you have a casting vote
06:12	PriceChild	thanks ubuntugeek :)
06:12	cjwatson	ubuntugeek: it doesn't seem like a blocker to start with 4 briefly?
06:12	sabdfl	both, if needed, so public should be fine unless stuff gets tricky
06:12	ubuntugeek	Like i said
06:12	ubuntugeek	if we cant vote the people in
06:12	ubuntugeek	we cant move forward
06:12	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: you have a council, it's not at 5 people, but the FG doc calls for comment from a long list of folks and there is no thread on the forums to suggest that's happened
06:13	ubuntugeek	blah
06:13	ubuntu_demon	I trust matthew to do a good job.
06:13	ubuntugeek	Then we shall not move forward
06:13	jenda	What's the matter with matthew?
06:13	sabdfl	i have no doubt matthew will get the nod in the next round, but i also think we owe it to the forums users and staff to have a place they can comment on candidates
06:13	PriceChild	But surely now the 4 members are appointed... they can appoint the 5th immediately?
06:13	jenda	I think he has unanimous support among us, the forum staff?
06:13	ubuntugeek	OK, i am going to make this clear
06:13	sabdfl	PriceChild: no, the FG does not appoint its own members
06:13	sabdfl	sorry, FC
06:13	ubuntugeek	we are not moving forward at this time
06:13	PriceChild	sabdfl: sorry misunderstanding
06:15	sabdfl	well, ok, i think we have made good progress
06:15	sabdfl	the FG document is approved by the CC
06:15	sabdfl	and we have a Forums Council of 4 members
06:15	ubuntugeek	no we dont
06:15	sabdfl	that's a good start
06:15	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: in what sense do we not?
06:15	ubuntugeek	Because we are not moving forward
06:16	cjwatson	could you please rephrase that without using the words "moving forward"? I'm having trouble working out what you mean
06:16	jono	ubuntugeek: what is your objection?
06:16	ubuntugeek	During our calls, it was implied that the initial two people who be chosen by the current admins.. we did this..
06:17	sabdfl	not as i recall it, anyone else who was there care to weigh in?
06:17	MikeB-	ubuntugeek: i think it is fine to get open discussion for both me and matthew on to the FC. I'm willing to delay my nod to the FC till next month so the community can have its say
06:17	sabdfl	the doc explicitly names 3 initial members
06:17	sabdfl	and explicitly gives a list of folks to be consulted on new appointments
06:18	sabdfl	and explicitly says we want to get to 5 quickly
06:18	ubuntugeek	ok if the three admins and the various mod's here backing people are not good enough then i am done here
06:18	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: of course they are good enough, their voice counts
06:18	jono	ubuntugeek: hang on a sec, lets ensure we are all clear on what we interpreted
06:18	ubuntugeek	then finalize it and we can move on..
06:18	sabdfl	but the Forums Governance doc does not ask for "seconds from some admins or staff members"
06:19	sabdfl	it says the CC will not appoint folks without consulting the staff and members
06:19	sabdfl	mikeb had very widespread forums community support as a representative during these discussions
06:19	sabdfl	which is why i think the CC is happy to say that the forums staff and members have really been consulted
06:19	sabdfl	but matthew was not really part of that process
06:20	sabdfl	i think forums members will be very happy to have a thread on this nomination, and i've no doubt it will reflect well on matthew
06:20	sabdfl	given everything that's been said
06:20	sabdfl	but i don't think the CC would be meeting its obligations under the FG doc, if we just +1 matthew
06:21	sabdfl	without any evidence of a broad consultation of the forums members and staff
06:20	ubuntugeek	i figured this would be like this.. thats why i was hesitant to even move forward..
06:20	jenda	Someone will have to resort to compromise here. I believe we should leave matthew as pending, as he is 1) not here to tell us he wants to do it 2) hasn't been discussed by the forum staff, although all of us present agree with him taking the spot.
06:21	mako	i don't really have strong feelings either way on this
06:21	PriceChild	+1 jenda
06:21	ubuntu_demon	+1 jenda
06:21	MikeB-	+1 jenda
06:22	ubuntu_demon	there are some forum staff right here to support matthew though.
06:22	sabdfl	"some staff" is not the same as "open consultation"
06:22	jenda	sabdfl: +1
06:22	sabdfl	right, and certainly not the same as "consulting forums members"
06:22	sabdfl	i think it's obvious that a thread on the forums is the right way to get that open consultation
06:23	sabdfl	which is why i'm suggesting ubuntugeek lead that
06:23	sabdfl	and come back for a +1 on matthew once that's done
06:23	zarul	I think you should make a decision here, it seems that we are dragging this issue to no ends...
06:23	ubuntu_demon	then maybe we can do a staff poll and have a new CC meeting quickly (like next week) to get him on the FC and move on ?
06:23	jenda	matthew has not been publically discussed, and I don't see a problem with waiting till next time, till matthew can make it, or till we have at least given a chance to other forum staff to have a say.
06:23	mako	the agreement as i understood it was that the the admins/ubuntugeek would pick the extra two members.. but i think a consultation by the focums community/staff would probably be a good thing in either case.. since it seems that anything other than a confirmation is unlikely, i don't see any issue with doing it for matthew or even matthew and MikeB-
06:23	sabdfl	matthew is NOT EVEN HERE
06:23	ubuntugeek	BECAUSE HE COULDNT BE
06:23	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: well, let's find a time that suits him
06:23	jono	ok, lets calm down
06:24	sabdfl	sorry
06:23	mako	right, i think matthew should at least show up to a CC meeting
06:23	mako	and he probably wouldn't mind seeing a thread about how everything thinks he's great :)
06:25	ubuntu_demon	IMHO let's arrange a CC meeting with matthew attending asap (like next week or something).
06:25	jenda	(there should be a meeting soon anyway, because a lot will be left over from this one so:)
06:25	jenda	ubuntu_demon: +1
06:27	jono	ok, lets clarify the position where we are now
06:27	jono	ubuntugeek: still there?
06:28	ubuntugeek	yes
06:28	jono	excellent :)
06:28	jono	ubuntugeek: what is core your objection at this point?
06:28	jono	just to be 100% clear
06:28	ubuntugeek	that my fears about this process have shown to be true regarding how this process is going to work.
06:28	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: from what I have seen the CC has no objection to matthew as a candidate
06:29	sabdfl	but there is some concern that the process needs to be followed
06:29	sabdfl	the process is pretty clear in the FG doc we just approved
06:29	ubuntugeek	there (was) no process before this
06:29	sabdfl	that's all
06:29	ubuntugeek	this is clean/new document
06:29	ubuntugeek	a start..
06:29	sabdfl	i have no doubt the CC would +1 matthew after a thread on the forums discussing his candidacy
06:29	jono	ubuntugeek: lets give the process a chance - and the agreement which you seem broadly happy with is there to secure a good, honest, consistent process
06:29	sabdfl	i assume no major controvery emerging in that thread, given the unilateral support
06:30	sabdfl	but it's important to show that we want the FG doc to mean something
06:30	cjwatson	ubuntugeek: I'm not clear on what your fears are; I don't see anything going particularly wrong ...
06:30	jono	much of this is just due process ubuntugeek
06:30	sabdfl	i would have called for discussion on MikeB too, except I think we all feel that has already happened, in effect
06:30	MikeB-	sabdfl: I'm willing to wait a month to allow discussion
06:30	jono	many of us got to know MikeB- and his excellent contributions at the UDS
06:31	jono	I am sure if we knew Matthew as well, everyone would approach this the same
06:31	sabdfl	and the MikeB- was really mandated by the forums community as a representative already
06:31	jono	ubuntugeek: see what I mean?
06:31	MikeB-	it is only fair if Matthew and I get the same treatment
06:31	mako	ubuntugeek: if you think it's more fair, we might ask for comments on both.. i tend to think it would be
=== mako nods to MikeB-
06:32	cjwatson	it seems a bit artificial, we're obviously all happy with MikeB
06:32	cjwatson	but shrug
06:32	jono	MikeB-: I think you are getting the same treatment, its just that the CC are not as familiar with Matthew (yet)
06:32	mako	cjwatson: fwiw, i'm also happy with matthew
06:33	cjwatson	I think the current action is for a thread to be opened on the forums about matthew
06:33	ubuntu_demon	any input from ubuntugeek ?
06:33	ubuntugeek	nothing further we wont move forward until this is resolved
06:33	ubuntu_demon	ubuntugeek : so we can move forward after Matthew is approved at the next CC meeting ?
06:34	jono	ubuntugeek: how would you like to see it resolved
06:34	ubuntugeek	ubuntu_demon: no it needs to be done this meeting.. there are enough people here to back matthew.. i
06:35	ubuntugeek	the process in which you elect is flawed..
06:35	ubuntu_demon	Maybe we can focus on forumsgovernance first ? I would hate to see it break apart while we have made this much good progress.
06:35	ubuntugeek	if you cant agree on matthew today then dont agree on mikeb
06:36	sabdfl	i'd like to ask the CC if they think (a) the position is the CC should follow the FG doc in appointing the 2 new FC members, or if (b) the 3 forums admins should be appointing them
06:36	sabdfl	for me it is clearly (a)
06:37	cjwatson	well, I do sort of wonder why the FG doc exists if it isn't true :-)
06:38	ubuntugeek	Like I said, when i walked away from our conversations at mds .. the other two people were going to be selected by the curent admins
06:38	MacSlow	sabdfl, this whole stuff here is so intense... a bit frightening... but most impressive nevertheless.
06:38	mako	but if it comes to a vote on approval of matthew, i would be happy to have him now
06:38	ubuntugeek	to form the initial fc team.
06:38	sabdfl	mako: (a) or (b)?
06:39	elmo	I think (a) makes the most sense, simply because this is going to be the FC for the next year or so
06:39	mako	cjwatson: for the initial bootstrap phase, that is right now, i think (b) would be appropriate and in line with our previous discussions
06:39	cjwatson	FWIW I've no objection to generally following the forums admins' recommendations, but I'd like a chance to actually evaluate rather than just rubber-stamp, that's all
06:40	mako	but i'm not opposed to (a) either don't really see why anybody would be
06:40	sabdfl	ok, so 3 for (a) and 1 for (b)
06:40	cjwatson	I can only be +0 on matthew simply because I've never talked to him
06:40	mako	it will only make the position of those people more justified in the eyes of their constituency
06:40	ubuntugeek	ok i am done here
06:40	sabdfl	and matthew is not here now
06:40	ubuntugeek	good day
06:40	cjwatson	I don't *object*, just it's impossible to say an outright yes
06:40	MikeB-	ryan , please wait
06:40	sabdfl	ok, i will start the thread on the forums, to give the staff and users an opportunity to discuss matthew
06:40	jenda	That doesn't help the forums, does it :/
06:41	ubuntu_demon	Can we please schedule a new CC meeting very soon to handle this FG ?
06:41	sabdfl	ubuntu_demon: yes
06:42	ubuntugeek	clearly what we discussed on the phone about this and how its playing out here is two different things
06:42	cjwatson	surely worst case the practical effect is that it takes two weeks longer to get the FC going? I really don't see the big deal
06:44	mc44	ubuntugeek: if athread is opened on matthew and there is a concensus then the CC approves him to the FC, would you be happy to move forward
06:44	elmo	ubuntugeek: FWIW, I couldn't confidently claim that (a) is what was agreed to on the phone, it's possible it _was_ (b), but would you not be willing to consider (a) and the (IMO) advantages it has?
06:45	sabdfl	which forum would be the appropriate one for me to start those threads?
06:46	sabdfl	i think (a) vs (b) was never explicitly discussed, i assumed it was clearly (a), ubuntugeek obviously assumed differently
06:46	sabdfl	nonetheless, the CC voted for following the FG document process
06:46	ubuntugeek	elmo: sure the issue i have is if you can't back both right now don't back either
06:47	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: that's fine, i think MikeB has said he's open to that
06:47	sabdfl	so i will open two threads
06:47	elmo	ubuntugeek: sure, that's perfectly reasonable, happy to do that
06:47	ubuntugeek	now i still strongly object to to the way its handled
06:47	elmo	ubuntugeek: in what way?
06:48	ubuntugeek	if you cant trust us to form an initial team then clearly down the road we will have the same issues
06:48	elmo	ubuntugeek: we can and do trust you, we've all provisionally +1'ed on both mike and matthew.  the issue is that we'd like the forums community to have a chance to participate
06:49	elmo	ubuntugeek: this after all is going to be their forums council for a year, it seems fair to given them a chance to have some input, don't you think?
06:48	sabdfl	it's Mike Basinger and Matthew ?
06:48	MikeB-	sabdfl and ubuntugeek: I'm fine with that
06:48	sabdfl	and forums nicks for both?
06:48	ubuntugeek	matthew
06:48	ubuntugeek	mike
06:52	sabdfl	  http://www.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?p=1876854#post1876854
06:54	sabdfl	http://www.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?p=1876865#post1876865
06:48	gnomefreak	sabdfl: can we set a meeting for either later this week sometime next week to finish the forums item. since the threads will be open it should be a fast vote?
06:49	jono	ubuntugeek: do you feel the forums community will be happy with mikeb and matthew on the FC
06:50	ubuntugeek	jono: yep i do
06:51	jono	ubuntugeek: if so, why not just let the due process happen if the community would be happen with them?
06:51	ubuntugeek	jono: thats fine do as you wish
06:52	jono	ubuntugeek: ok, so you are happy for us to continue?
06:53	ubuntugeek	jono: sure i dont really have a choice
06:53	ubuntugeek	jono: you guys got me by the balls this time around..
06:54	jono	ubuntugeek: you *do* have a choice - this is not about forcing something out of you - it is about asking if you are happy with due process
06:54	jono	ubuntugeek: if you are happy with that, we can move forward
06:54	ubuntugeek	jono: thats fine.. so to recap.. FG is approved and the FC +3 admins is approved..
06:54	ubuntugeek	correct?
06:55	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: yes
06:55	ubuntugeek	ok
06:55	sabdfl	FC consisting of 3 current admins
06:55	ubuntugeek	Next time.. lets be more clear on how this is going to work
06:55	sabdfl	fair enough
06:55	jono	ubuntugeek: I think we can always improve communication - 95% of problems are simply misunderstandings
06:55	sabdfl	ok, could you guys make those threads sticky, and give them a wide pumping for wide discussion?
06:55	PriceChild	sabdfl: shall i rename both topics to "Potential..." instead of just the one?
06:56	ubuntugeek	sabdfl: sure
06:56	sabdfl	PriceChild: technically, they HAVE been nominated, and the CC is looking for background to make the appointments
06:56	ubuntu_demon	Will the CC schedule an extra meeting soon ? Instead of having to wait for a month ?
06:57	elmo	ubuntu_demon: yes
06:57	PriceChild	sabdfl: its just odd having the "Potential" the wrong way around considering discussions that have already taken part
06:59	ubuntu_demon	One question : should we defer Forum Staff to become Ubuntu Member until the next meeting so the CC can guide the FC at the next meeting ? That might be a nice way of smoothing the membership approval process

06:31	zarul	sorry to interrupt guys, I am worry that I won't be able to wait longer, just in case I have to go out any time soon, here is the link to my profile: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZarulShahrin
=== somerville32 cheers on Zarul.
06:32	EmxBA	+1 for zarul
06:32	sabdfl	zarul: what's your LP account? URL?
06:33	zarul	https://launchpad.net/people/zarulshahrin/
06:33	sabdfl	zarul: seems you have been active for more than a year?
06:33	sabdfl	that's great
06:33	zarul	sabdfl yes
06:34	zarul	I founded MalaysianTeam in May last year
06:34	zarul	If I am not wrong
06:34	zarul	and I tried hard to promote it here
06:34	zarul	and I am happy that we are growing now
06:34	sabdfl	ok, +1 from me on zarul, long participation, active advocacy, and team leadership
06:35	mako	+1 for me for zarul
06:35	zarul	thank you all
06:35	sabdfl	elmo? cjwatson, zarul?
06:36	elmo	fine with zarul.. [...]
06:36	cjwatson	+1 on zarul, though would like to see the malaysian team up for approval soon too since zarul's application is largely on that :-)
06:37	zarul	So if everything is ok, can I leave now?
06:37	sabdfl	zarul: congrats and welcome!
06:37	gnomefreak	zarul: congrats
06:37	zarul	ok
06:37	sabdfl	(and good night, safe travels home)
06:37	zarul	thank you all for voting

06:57	sabdfl	what's next?
06:58	MacSlow	sabdfl, call for nominations on "Localisation / Translation Team Leader"  I believe
06:58	PriceChild	isn't there only 2 CC members present right now?
06:58	sabdfl	some things i think we can +1 with me and one other
06:59	sabdfl	so loco's we can do, members we can do
06:59	jenda	sabdfl: are we changing the rules in the middle of the game here? :)
07:00	sabdfl	jenda: i do have a casting vote
07:00	jenda	sabdfl: I'm not arguing

07:00	sabdfl	i think we can auto+1 all current forums staff for membership right away
07:00	sabdfl	elmo?
07:00	elmo	as long as they've been staff for > 1 month, sure
07:01	sabdfl	fair enough
07:01	PriceChild	sabdfl: those that are applying of course.... not all want it
07:01	ubuntu_demon	sabdfl : some forum staff might not want to become Ubuntu Members
07:01	sabdfl	i *think* FG makes that a must-do?
07:01	PriceChild	sabdfl: I thought it only meant they should abide by the CoC...
07:01	sabdfl	ok
07:01	sabdfl	you're right
07:01	ubuntugeek	sabdfl: we cant force them to be ubuntu members
07:01	elmo	PriceChild: that's implied by "auto+1", we wouldn't force membership on anyone
07:01	PriceChild	just checking :)
07:01	ubuntugeek	we have alot of good staff who just dont want to be that deep into it..
07:01	sabdfl	so, who's here, forums staff for more than 1 month?
07:02	PriceChild	I know several feel strongly about that
07:02	PriceChild	sabdfl: Me me me!!!
07:02	MikeB-	+1 for pricechild
07:02	SD-Plissken	What is price of being an ubuntumember pricechild. what do you have to give up to be a member such a team..
07:02	ubuntu_demon	+1 for pricechild :)
07:02	gnomefreak	sabdfl: i would like to cheer for a few memebers i have ameeting to go to. i +1 for Christoffer Karvonen TravisWatkins Tony Yarusso and CodySomerville
07:03	sabdfl	thanks gnomefreak
07:02	sabdfl	confirm PriceChild is forums staff / moderator for more than a month?
07:02	ubuntugeek	+1 for all our staff who wants it
07:02	PriceChild	SD-Plissken: I don't believe there's anything I have to give up...
07:03	sabdfl	PriceChild: what's your launchpad nick?
07:03	ubuntu_demon	sabdfl : yes pricechild has been Forum Staff for more than one month
07:03	frodon	+1 for PriceChild
07:03	PriceChild	https://launchpad.net/people/pricechild/
07:03	jenda	sabdfl, elmo, just a BTW, there is a LP team indicating the forums staff: https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntuforums-staff
07:03	jenda	I can't guarantee it's 100% accurate, some of the new ones may be missing.
07:04	PriceChild	SD-Plissken: becoming a member means I am bound by the CoC. This is just common decency to me and therefore in my opinon nothing to give up
07:04	sabdfl	PriceChild: congrats, and welcome!
07:04	PriceChild	Thanks :D
07:04	apokryphos	PriceChild: being an ubuntero bounds you to that too. Little more to it.
07:04	ubuntu_demon	congrats pricechild ! :)
07:04	SD-Plissken	Thats all Pricechild.. hope there was no fine print.. lol
07:04	kalon33	congrats PriceChild
07:04	effie_jayx	PriceChild,  :D
07:04	frodon	congrats pricey ;)
07:05	sabdfl	anybody else in the forums moderator applying for membership crowd?
07:05	ubuntugeek	I just spoke with Kingbahamut please +1 him for ubuntu meber he is an exceptional forum staff member..
07:05	ubuntugeek	he is unable to get on irc
07:06	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: LP name for KingBahamut?
07:06	ubuntugeek	Bill weber
07:07	PriceChild	https://launchpad.net/people/gwosbahamut
07:07	PriceChild	^ KingBahamut
07:07	sabdfl	as far as i can see, he has not applied for ubuntumember
07:07	jenda	King Bahamut has also been doing some impressive work on doc.gwos.org/com
07:07	ubuntu_demon	+1 for King Bahamut
07:08	SD-Plissken	+1 for King Bahamut
07:08	PriceChild	+1 KB
07:08	frodon	+1 for KingBahamut as well
07:09	sabdfl	ok, kingbahamut is done
07:10	ubuntugeek	+1 for SD-plissken for ubutnu-member he is a staff as well..
07:10	ubuntu_demon	+1 for SD-plissken
07:10	frodon	+1 for SD-plissken as well
07:10	jenda	SD-Plissken has been a good moderator for several months
07:10	frodon	LP : https://launchpad.net/people/sd-plissken
07:11	sabdfl	SD-Plissken: done, welcome aboard
07:11	PriceChild	well done SD
07:11	ubuntu_demon	congrats SD-Plissken :)
07:11	frodon	congrat SD-Plissken :)
07:11	SD-Plissken	Thanks all
07:12	kalon33	congrats SD-Plissken

07:01	LoudMouthMan	Yes, okay well the UKTeam is applying for Approval and submitted its application to Jono for the councils consideration.
07:04	LoudMouthMan	sabdfl you asked about UKTeam, we have submitted the approval page for councils consideration do you have any further questinos ?
07:04	sabdfl	LoudMouthMan: sorry, got diverted into low-hanging-fruit forums moderator membership approvals
07:06	elmo	ok, you guys get -0.005 for using "syngeristic" in your approval application wiki page
07:06	elmo	(synergistic even or however it's spelt)
07:06	ubuntu_demon	elmo : what does syngreristic mean ?
07:06	elmo	ubuntu_demon: ... exactly ;-)
07:07	elmo	anyway, I'm +1 on the UK team
07:07	elmo	(sorry, if we haven't got back to the loco team yet)
07:07	GazzaK	:-) thanks elmo
07:07	jono	the UK team have done some excellent work
07:08	jono	they have a strong structure and a number of keen contributors - they also have a good direction forward
07:08	jono	+1 for me
07:08	MikeB-	+1 for me
07:08	PriceChild	+1 UKTeam
07:09	sabdfl	+1 from me on the UK team
07:09	popey	w000t
07:09	apokryphos	nice 8)
=== GazzaK skips about a bit, thanks
07:09	jamesbrose	yay!
07:09	popey	Go us!
=== jayteeuk cheers
07:09	LoudMouthMan	So , sabdfl can I report back to the UKTeam that we have apporval ?  and thanks to everyone for the votes, it is much appreciated.
07:09	sabdfl	LoudMouthMan: all done - and welcome!
07:09	sabdfl	very classy wiki page
07:09	sabdfl	the status chart for projects is particularly cool, IMO
07:10	LoudMouthMan	sabdfl thank you , I will pass the comments on to the team.
07:10	jono	congrats LoudMouthMan
07:10	jono	LoudMouthMan: I look forward to you leveraging synergies and fullfilling verticale markets
07:10	GazzaK	lol @ jono
07:10	LoudMouthMan	jono indeed, ill run those ideas up the flag pole soon enough
07:10	GazzaK	if he starts on that, I'm moving to tibet

=== MacSlow hands the voting crowd these URLs https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Macslow https://launchpad.net/people/macslow
07:12	sabdfl	MacSlow has an excellent track record upstream
07:12	sabdfl	also made good contributions at UDS Mountain View
07:12	dholbach	MacSlow is my favourite friendly flipping hacker in the Ubuntu community and I'm happy to see his cairo-clock in Ubuntu's Universe already.
07:12	sabdfl	MacSlow: where are you making ubuntu-specific contributions
=== MacSlow points to seb128, sabdfl, jono, dholbach, matthewrevell as his 'fan-club' :)
07:12	sabdfl	?
07:13	MacSlow	sabdfl, https://launchpad.net/people/macslow/+packages
07:13	MacSlow	my upstream http://macslow.thepimp.net/cairo-clock
07:13	seb128	MacSlow is doing some good job
07:13	MacSlow	I do a bit guerilla-marketing KungFu on enemy-territory -> http://www.flickr.com/photos/41128780@N00/296376139 http://www.flickr.com/photos/41128780@N00/296376031 http://www.flickr.com/photos/41128780@N00/296375822 http://www.flickr.com/photos/41128780@N00/197579312
07:13	seb128	nice to have cairo-clock to universe and him around looking at bling ;)
07:13	sabdfl	but let's wrap up with him, then do everyone else in order of the agenda
07:14	seb128	looks really good
07:14	sabdfl	ok, +1 from me for MacSlow on the basis of packaging contributions and votes form seb and dholbach
07:14	elmo	+1 for MacSlow too
07:14	sabdfl	welcome aboard, MacSlow
07:15	popey	congrats MacSlow
07:15	kalon33	Congrats MacSlow
07:15	dholbach	and what I saw from the future ubuntu hacks department already looks great too :-)
07:15	MacSlow	sabdfl, cool thanks!
=== dholbach hugs MacSlow
=== MacSlow does a back-flip of rejoice :)
07:15	sabdfl	MacSlow: could you edit your LP display name to be "Mirco Mueller" with all the right dots?
07:18	MacSlow	sabdfl, move both, my launchpad- and wiki-page, to MircoMueller instead of MacSlow?!
07:19	sabdfl	MacSlow: just change the "display name" (not the account name) on the LP one
07:19	sabdfl	macslow is fine as an account name
07:19	MacSlow	sabdfl, ah ok
07:15	seb128	MacSlow: well done ;)
07:15	ubuntu_demon	congrats MaCSlow
07:15	MacSlow	thanks everybody!
07:16	fernando	congrats MacSlow

07:19	markvandenborre	the first 5 were already taken care of in the previous meeting
07:19	markvandenborre	but not scrapped for some reason
07:19	sabdfl	were the first 5 all approved?
07:20	sabdfl	duelling banjos!
07:20	elmo	sabdfl: andrew wasn't yet
07:20	elmo	sabdfl: michael biena was
07:20	elmo	sabdfl: paul schulz was.. [shall I just edit the wiki page? :)]
07:21	sabdfl	elmo: i'm editing...
07:21	elmo	sabdfl: ok, Sridhar Dhanapalan  was also approved

07:19	sabdfl	markvandenborre: you're up!
07:19	markvandenborre	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarkVanDenBorre
07:19	markvandenborre	Belgian team lead
07:20	sabdfl	wow, awesome list of contributions, markvandenborre
07:20	sabdfl	how's the belgian free software scene shaping up?
07:21	markvandenborre	it's rocking... you really should come to FOSDEM and experience it yourself
07:21	sabdfl	ok, very clear +1 from me for mark on the back of a very long period of participation and lots of diverse contributions
07:21	La_PaRCa	haha, you even have an endorsements section
07:22	GnuKemist	markvandenborre: seems to represent the Belgium team's best interest really well
07:22	markvandenborre	sabdfl, thx!
07:22	elmo	+1 for mark
07:22	sabdfl	welcome aboard, mark!
07:22	kalon33	congrats markvandenborre !
07:22	dinda	Congrats Mark V!
07:22	jono	congrats markvandenborre
=== markvandenborre jumping around & smiling
07:23	MacSlow	markvandenborre, congratulations
07:23	GnuKemist	markvandenborre: sing that Belgium song you were singing at the UDS  ;)
07:23	markvandenborre	:)

07:23	elmo	seanh: ok, let's do you now then
07:24	seanh	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SeanHammond
07:24	sabdfl	seanh: very nice page, too
07:24	sabdfl	congrats on the oo.o advocacy!
07:24	seanh	thanks
07:25	sabdfl	+1 from me for seanh, on the back of very extensive advocacy
07:25	elmo	seanh: "I've been contributing to Ubuntu for two or three years." .. careful, almost in danger of time warping ;-)
07:25	seanh	heh, well, since the first release
07:25	elmo	but +1 from me also for seanh
07:25	MacSlow	seanh, gee you've been busy!
07:25	sabdfl	ok, welcome aboard, seanh!
07:26	seanh	cool, thanks
07:26	kalon33	congrats seanh

07:26	elmo	Burgwork: ok, let's do .ca loco now then?
07:26	Burgwork	elmo: lets go
07:28	elmo	(sorry, just reading)
07:28	elmo	Burgwork: anything I should know ;-)
07:28	Burgwork	we are a pretty active with, with many of our members active in other ubuntu teams
07:28	Burgwork	and we have the canonical support office
07:29	Burgwork	although it is questionable how much work they actually do :)
07:29	jono	I just looked at the canadian application
07:29	jono	I think there needs to be a better fleshed out roadmap
07:29	sabdfl	Burgwork: errrr
07:30	jono	if the team could expand and possibly delegate volunteers to the roadmap, I think we are looking good
07:30	Burgwork	jono: sure
07:30	jono	Burgwork: if you can expand the roadmap and I am happy to approve if the CC would like me to
07:31	Burgwork	jono: now or on the wiki?
07:31	MagicFab	Burgwork, I can chip in that roadmap - we already have some work on that here (QC)
07:31	jono	Burgwork: later on the wiki
07:31	Burgwork	ok, will do
07:31	jono	I just think you need to better clarify your direction :)
07:31	Burgwork	alright
07:31	jamonation	Burgwork, jono lophyte says he's happy to help with that
07:31	jono	sabdfl: elmo happy if I look over the Canadian team's update roadmap and if it is suitable approe it?
07:32	tonyyarusso	I think that is beginning to get better, as we are planning to do regular meetings now.
07:32	elmo	jono: works for me
07:32	tonyyarusso	There's a lot going on, so the mtgs will help everyone know what they are and where they stand.
07:32	kalon33	Sorry elmo, jono, sabdfl, all, I'm a candidate for becoming an Ubuntu member and I've to go in 15 minutes... :/
07:32	sabdfl	jono: perfectly
07:32	jono	ok cool
07:32	jono	Burgwork: ping me when it is updated
07:33	Burgwork	jono: will do

07:32	elmo	kalon33: your next, go
07:33	kalon33	thanks
07:33	kalon33	Hello all, I'm kalon33, and my real name is Nicolas Derive. I'm a French student in biology at Bordeaux 2 university. My contributions to ubuntu are translations, bugs report and triage, and support to other users. Details are availiable on my wiki page. Any questions ?
07:33	kalon33	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kalon33
07:35	elmo	kalon33: how long have you been around and doing translations, triage etc.?
07:36	kalon33	since Dapper for translations and bug report (because I tested it too)
07:36	kalon33	triage for... 2 or 3 months
07:36	elmo	kalon33: ok
07:36	kalon33	and support for 1-2 months I think.
07:37	elmo	+1 from me for kalon33 on the basis of his translation and triage work
07:37	elmo	sabdfl: ?
07:37	kalon33	I'm using Ubuntu since July 2005, and started Dapper testing on January 2006.
07:37	sabdfl	+1 - welcome aboard kalon33!
07:37	elmo	ok, who's next in order
07:37	kalon33	and Edgy in July.
07:38	kalon33	thanks elmo, sabdfl
=== kalon33 is very happy !

07:38	elmo	theCore: still here?
07:38	theCore	yes
07:38	theCore	I'm Alexandre Vassalotti, a Science student in Quebec, Canada. I plan to go in Computer Science and I will probably do a career as a software developer. I been active in the Ubuntu community for a little bit more than a year. I'm currently mastering Python and C. I plan to use my skills to make Ubuntu even better. -- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlexandreVassalotti
07:39	EtienneG	theCore, where are you located ?  I am in Mtl, used to live in Qubec City
07:39	MagicFab	theCore, consider joining https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-qc :)
07:39	theCore	EtienneG: near Montreal
07:39	jbailey	As all the Qubec folks poke their heads in. =)
07:39	EtienneG	yes ... *please*
07:39	theCore	EtienneG: Ile Perrot
07:39	Keybuk	Alexandre did the upstart logo </trivia>
07:39	tonyyarusso	theCore also is one of the folks who gives quizzes in #ubuntu-trivia for a mix of fun and learning.  :)
07:39	Keybuk	so has my full support :)
07:39	EtienneG	theCore, cool
07:39	GazzaK	triva is great :-)
07:39	theCore	MagicFab: sure
07:39	EtienneG	are active in MLUG andor FACIL ?
07:39	kalon33	+1 for theCore, who works a lot with support and bug triage.
=== mneptok waves a a fleur-de-lis
07:40	anto9us	theCore has worked very hard in lots of areas one of which has been the IRC channel #ubuntu-trivia to which he's given unselfish and unrelenting commitment to the education and entertainment of others, it's growing popular too :)
07:41	sfllaw	I'm throwing in my hat for theCore as well.
07:41	dholbach	the whole -ca mafia is around :)
07:42	elmo	ok, +1 from me to theCore on the basis of his incredible support work etc.
07:42	elmo	sabdfl: ?
07:53	sabdfl	+1 on theCore - python fans unite!
07:42	jenda	I can definitely vouch for theCore :)
07:42	mako-away	hmm
07:42	mako	fortunately, or perhaps unfortunately for those here, things still seem to be in metion :)
07:42	jenda	Based on amazing work with #ubuntu-trivia and some contribution to UWN
07:43	Amaranth	sivang: that's why i'm hoping this won't take long
07:43	dsas_	I'm one of many that enjoy the friday quiz too :)

07:44	elmo	ok, let's start on amaranth while sabdfl's afk and mako's catching up
07:44	elmo	(assuming mako's willing to continue :)
07:44	PriceChild	I'll cheerlead on Amaranth
07:44	elmo	ok, I'll continue the skipping out of order thing, sorry for anyone this affects
07:44	mneptok	i can endorse Amaranth. i have seen him active not only with Ubuntu itself, but upstream at GNOME as well.
07:45	elmo	Amaranth: go
07:45	Amaranth	Alright. Well, my name is Travis Watkins, I've been here before and been approved, just missed some little details. Hoping this won't take long. :) http://wiki.ubuntu.com/TravisWatkins
07:45	elmo	Amaranth: what's willowNG?
07:45	elmo	might want to link to it on your wiki page
07:45	Keybuk	Amaranth also has my support, he's been pretty active on #upstart
07:45	dholbach	Amaranth: I tought you already were member
07:45	Amaranth	Oh, and I bring the bling! ;) Doing some work on compiz and beryl but mostly focusing on configuration frontends.
07:45	Amaranth	dholbach: haha
07:45	cbx33	Amaranth, is a star, has always been a great help to me and the whole of edubuntu ;)
07:46	dholbach	he's been active with smeg (now alacarte) too and it's been easy to work with him on bugs and all
07:46	Amaranth	elmo: I wish ogra was here to explain, I'm bad at this.
07:46	mneptok	oh, Amaranth can also take a punch. face or groin. very handy.
07:46	GazzaK	can I be a fanboy for Amaranth too, as he has really helped me out, and others on irc, with beryl and other things
07:46	Amaranth	It's a web proxy that uses bayesian filtering to block unwanted content.
07:46	elmo	Amaranth: ah, I see, interesting
07:47	elmo	ok, +1 from me on amaranth on the basis of all the development work and fanboys (et al.)
07:47	cbx33	heheh
07:47	Amaranth	if it helps, "i bring bling" ;)
07:47	somerville32	+1 for Amaranth :]
07:47	elmo	Amaranth: doesn't do anything for me, but I'm sure it'll help with sabdfl
07:47	cbx33	Bling Bling Amaranth
07:47	ogra	Amaranth, ?
07:47	MacSlow	Amaranth, that always helps :)
07:48	seb128	Amaranth: hint, you want to work on compiz ;)
07:48	Amaranth	seb128: I work on both. :)
07:48	MacSlow	Amaranth, you need to work on compiz! ;)
07:48	seb128	Amaranth: compiz is better ;)
07:48	ogra	Amaranth has my full support if he commits to make willowng work again in feisty ;)
07:49	ogra	MacSlow, seb128 he should first finish his older projects ;)
07:50	ogra	MacSlow, the conmtent filter he wrote for edubuntu ... i'd like to have it on the CD for feisty
07:50	MacSlow	ogra, comment-filter or content-filter?
07:54	sabdfl	+1 to Amaranth, long track record of contributions

07:48	elmo	ok, MagicFab you're up
07:48	MagicFab	elmo ok
07:48	MagicFab	I work on advocacy, translations, local support & translations. Sometimes I pitch in to answer the most-recent unanswered forum posts, sometimes I'll go spend hours on putting Xubuntu on those old macs. These days I am focused on making the ubuntu-co (Colombia) and ubuntu-qc (Quebec, Canada) teams official.
07:48	MagicFab	Oh, and I tried bling on a PIII-500 - it works! :D
07:48	MagicFab	URL: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FabianRodriguez
07:49	elmo	MagicFab: full disclosure, pls
07:49	mneptok	i'll endorse MagicFab heartily. i know he has been active in free software in Quebec for years, and has been advocating Ubuntu almost from the inception.
07:49	EtienneG	for what it is worth, i am all behind MagicFab
07:49	MacSlow	ogra, just started reading his page more thoroughly
07:49	sfllaw	I met MagicFab two years ago where he was supporting Ubuntu!
07:49	La_PaRCa	I am a MagicFab fanboy. He has been doing great work getting the ubuntu-co team up and running.
07:49	EtienneG	basically, he *is* ubuntu-qc (we need to fix that)
07:49	MagicFab	elmo, I started working with Canonical's support office in Mtl 2 weeks ago. My membership was on the CC Agenda for a while
07:50	elmo	MagicFab: thx
07:50	cr3	I can also vouch for MagicFab's presence in the local communities in Quebec
07:50	EtienneG	and I take the blame for refering him :)
07:51	sfllaw	MagicFab is an excellent all around guy.
07:51	EtienneG	^^
07:51	mneptok	sfllaw*3
07:51	EtienneG	very pro, very level-head, the kind of advocate we want
07:51	MagicFab	cr3, sfllaw, mneptok, etienne are colleagues, but they have witnessed I am very respectful at Ubuntu parties :)
07:51	La_PaRCa	its the ubuntu-ca mafia
07:51	sfllaw	Where's jbailey?
07:51	cr3	for example, I know that MagicFab was present to all the free-software related events in Montreal: copyright 2005, sqil, linux-expo, many free software conferences and many many installfests
07:51	jbailey	sfllaw: I'm here.
07:51	mneptok	MagicFab: until the horse tranqulizers kick in
07:51	ogra	MacSlow, apt-cache show willowng
07:51	cr3	err, I mean all free-software related events I know of
07:51	jbailey	sfllaw: But I don't have enough to contribute for his community interaction.
07:52	sfllaw	He organized jbailey's talk at FACIL.
07:52	jbailey	MagicFab: Oh, you organised that?  Thanks. =)
07:52	MagicFab	sfllaw, I produced the video - don't know what's worse :)
07:52	elmo	sfllaw: is that a polite way of saying "ghost wrote"? ;-)
07:52	sfllaw	jbailey: Dude!
07:52	EtienneG	and e was advocating Ubuntu at all these place
07:53	jbailey	sfllaw: Eh, I was told to show up at a particular place and give a talk on Ubuntu, so I did. =)
07:53	MagicFab	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FabianRodriguez and scrolling to "Contributions" is a good summary
07:53	mneptok	jbailey: show up in my kitchen and give a tolk on Ubuntu as you bake me a pie.
07:53	jbailey	Not having to know who arranged it only seems like a positive reflection on the organisation of it. =)
07:53	elmo	MagicFab: did you apply previously or am I misremembering?
07:54	MagicFab	elmo, twice, actually - wasn't considered sustained. np with that
07:54	elmo	ok, +1 from me for MagicFab
07:54	sabdfl	MagicFab: +1 too - welcome!
07:54	theCore	thanks everyone for supporting me
07:55	EtienneG	MagicFab, well done, well deserved
=== jbailey ^5's to MagicFab
07:55	sabdfl	who's up next?
=== MagicFab hugs back
07:55	EtienneG	high five !

07:56	elmo	popey: go
07:56	popey	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanPope https://launchpad.net/people/alanpope that's me
07:56	popey	i do a lot of support, i created some screencasts - http://quickones.org/ , I help LUGs..
07:56	sabdfl	popey: how's #ubuntu doing from a support perspective?
07:56	popey	I do web based support on the tickets
07:57	popey	generally don't venture into #ubuntu at the moment
=== Seeker` can vouch for popey, "I've not been here long, but he is very active in #ubuntu-uk, he made me feel welcome and is good at answering support requests on the channel
07:57	popey	find it easier to forumlate answers in support tickets
07:57	popey	clocked up 10 million karma :)
07:57	sabdfl	popey: what do you think of the web based tracker, have you spoken at all with flacoste who is leading the work onthat?
07:57	cbx33	popey is one of the most dedicated linux helpers around
07:57	LoudMouthMan	Im Popey fan club also and feel that UKTeam has consitantly benefited from his input.
07:57	cbx33	he's untiring in his efforts
07:57	popey	I like it, it's easy to use, I can help from anywhere :)
=== Seeker` agrees with LoudMouthMan
07:57	sabdfl	+1 from me on the basis of a huge contribution in ubuntu support
07:58	elmo	+1 too
07:58	mako	+1 from me as well
07:58	GazzaK	<GazzaK> I'd love to say a bit about Alan Pope, ( popey ) - He is very very helpful to all ubuntu users, he is very active on irc and has made some great demos on how to do things in ubuntu which are help on his own server ( quickones.org ) he is also very active in launchpad, helping so many people.  In fact I support what he is doing so much I made this little (work safe) image - http://img97.imageshack.us/img97/8489/popeysmembergg2.jpg
=== dsas joins the popey fan club too, he's one of the big lp support people.
07:58	popey	\o/ thanks guys
07:58	sabdfl	241 results!
07:58	cbx33	dude you rock
07:58	popey	cheque in post
07:58	sabdfl	welcome aboard!

07:58	elmo	LoudMouthMan: I believe you needed to go next?
07:58	LoudMouthMan	Nik Butler is a 30 something Open Source Evangelist Living and Working in the South Of England and promoting OpenSource since the turn of the century. He has been promoting Ubuntu through BNI, FSB and his own Clients and regularly seeks new opportunities to increase awareness of Ubuntu as a Linux Desktop for Human Beings.His future plans include increasing awareness of Ubuntu to the many local SME IT Support companies in the
07:58	LoudMouthMan	South of  England. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NikButler
07:59	popey	LoudMouthMan: ++++
=== Seeker` starts a LoudMouthMan fanclub too, "He is also very helpful and welcoming, and has done a lot for the UK team"
07:59	sabdfl	mehdi?
=== binary2k2 waves his "LoudMouthMan for Ubuntu Membership" flag too
07:59	dsas	+1 for LoudMouthMan he's basically the  ubuntu-uk lead
07:59	GazzaK	Nik Butler ( LoudMouthMan ) is a very helpful person, I have been helped on many occasions by him, and he is always in the #ubuntu-uk channel.  both him and popey were at the linuxworld2006 expo and made everyone feel very welcomed.  yet again, as my show of being a total fanboy I made this - http://img514.imageshack.us/img514/9863/nikmemberwq3.jpg - (work safe image)
07:59	popey	+1 for LoudMouthMan for organising the expo stand
07:59	NeilSimmons	LMM get a +1 from me, coz I can't give him a +10.
08:00	sabdfl	Nik, awesome personal wiki page
08:00	LoudMouthMan	thanks . sabdfl.
08:00	NeilSimmons	He's been my personal introduction to FOSS and especially Linux since 1999 and as helped countless small business users get the benefits of Linux as well.
08:01	sabdfl	LoudMouthMan: do you do much online, or mostly in-person advocacy?
08:01	sabdfl	and what's the BCF?
08:01	LoudMouthMan	sabfl its moslty been in person advocacy my online persona has kicked off since Jono kicked me into touch. but support tickets wise not so much as popey
08:01	LoudMouthMan	British Computer Fairs,
08:02	mako	LoudMouthMan: how long have you been involved in ubuntu?
08:02	LoudMouthMan	oh and Business Network International .
08:02	GazzaK	and he also sorted out Polo Shirts for the linuxworld expo :-)
08:02	LoudMouthMan	mako when did it first get on the magazine covers in the uK ? probably over a year ogo .
08:02	mako	LoudMouthMan: great :)
08:02	LoudMouthMan	theres a Southafrican travel compny called Ehtosmarketing who make most use of it!
08:03	mako	anyone else involved in the UK team who wants to give a testimonial
=== Seeker` would like to reiterate his point that he is very valuable to the UK team
08:03	elmo	mako: I think GazzaK and popey did?  or do you want some more?
08:03	sabdfl	ok, +1 from me for LoudMouthMan on the back of strong advocacy over time
08:03	elmo	+1 from me too
08:03	sabdfl	LWE was awesome this year, thanks LoudMouthMan
08:03	GazzaK	\o/ yay for popey \o/ yay for LoudMouthMan
08:04	LoudMouthMan	sabdfl well it was the team but thanks.
08:04	sabdfl	LoudMouthMan: what's your LP nick?
08:04	sabdfl	can't see you in the applicants list of ubuntumembers
08:04	LoudMouthMan	it should be NIkButler on Launchpad and its loudmouthmanonline
08:04	LoudMouthMan	sabdlf I wasnt sure if you join that before or after approval ?
08:05	elmo	LoudMouthMan: it seems to be 'reducedhackers' ?
08:05	elmo	LoudMouthMan: before, please do it now
08:05	LoudMouthMan	will do
08:06	mako	yeah, +1 for me too
08:06	mako	for LoudMouthMan
08:06	LoudMouthMan	elmo changed to nikbutler is that okay ?
08:06	sabdfl	LoudMouthMan: np
08:06	elmo	LoudMouthMan: whatever you like is fine
08:07	LoudMouthMan	thanks guys, cheers everyone .
08:07	sabdfl	LoudMouthMan: you need to go to launchpad.net/people/ubuntumembers and apply there
08:09	LoudMouthMan	sabdlf: also now done , thanks

08:05	elmo	mruiz: go
08:05	sabdfl	mruiz: go go go!
++06:29	newz2000	sorry to interupt, but I've got to go visit family in hospital now, I'm here to give a +1 for mruiz - he's been extremely active in trying to get latin america loco teams coordinated and really is busy trying to make things better for spanish speaking loco teams and ubuntu users
08:06	mruiz	Hello. My name is Miguel Ruiz, Chilean Ubuntu LoCo member. I'm 23 years old. Currently I'm studying computer science. I've been using Linux since approximately May 2002. I discovered Ubuntu in January 2005 with Warty Warthog, and it became my favourite distro.
08:06	sabdfl	mruiz: how can we improve the consistency of LoCo team websites?
08:07	mruiz	My personal wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MiguelRuiz  and my LP account:  https://launchpad.net/people/mruiz
08:07	MagicFab	mruiz, is also proposing a spanish planet - we're talking about coordinating all the spanish/latinam. locos
08:07	mruiz	sabdfl: you can visit http://www.ubuntu-cl.org
08:07	sabdfl	mruiz: i like that site
08:08	sabdfl	i was asking how you think we can make it easier to get all the loco teams tohave really good sites, like this
08:08	sabdfl	can we provide more standard services?
08:08	mruiz	sabdfl: yes, I think this is a good idea
08:09	sabdfl	mruiz: i'm really pleased to see contributions across quite a wide variety of places - bugs, loco, translations etc
08:09	sabdfl	thats very cool
08:09	Yann2	(providing templates would help, imho)
08:09	sabdfl	you started using ubuntu in Jan 05, when did you become active in the community?
08:09	mruiz	yes, I share our templates with others LoCo teams
08:09	EmxBA	also some forum (SMF, vbulletin or punbb) or joomla and other CMS templates would be helpful...?
08:10	sabdfl	mruiz: when did you become an active contributor, as opposed to a user?
08:11	mruiz	sabdfl: I started my work with Ubuntu community during last year, when we started in Chile our LoCo
08:11	sabdfl	ok, +1 from me on the back of LoCo team leadership and website contributions
08:11	mruiz	sabdfl, remember newz2000 vote and opinion
08:12	somerville32	:]
08:12	elmo	+1 from me too
08:12	mako	+1 from me as well, for the sae reasons as mark
08:12	somerville32	Sweet!
08:12	sabdfl	super - welcome aboard, mruiz, and thank you for your contributions so far!
08:12	somerville32	Welcome mruiz! :)
08:14	sabdfl	mruiz: i don't see you in the list of people applying for ubuntumembership
08:14	mruiz	sabdfl: ok, I will do it

08:12	elmo	EmxBA: you're up
08:12	mruiz	thanks!
08:12	EmxBA	ok
08:12	EmxBA	my launchpad account is on https://launchpad.net/people/emxba translations on https://translations.launchpad.net/people/emxba/+translations Wiki page has some information about me - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EmirBeganovic. I've made some redesigned Edubuntu logos - look at http://ubuntu.juliux.de/stuff/emx/edubuntu/ I've had Fujitsu Siemens Amilo L6825 notebook and tested it - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/FujitsuAmiloL6825 . I've founded Bosnian Team (https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-ba) - see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BosnianTeam - there's mailing list (https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ba) and IRC channel (#ubuntu-ba on FreeNode) already, with descriptive wiki page too. Also reviewed and promoted Edubuntu and Ubuntu in 3 articles in local IT magazine (http://www.info.ba , http://www.info.ba/tekst.aspx?id=6361) and inside the regional (Bosnian and Herzegovinian)
08:12	EmxBA	LUG
08:12	sabdfl	mruiz: what's your launchpad id, and have you applied for ubuntumembers?
08:13	mruiz	sabdfl: my LP id is mruiz
08:13	sabdfl	emir - how long have you been an active contributor?
08:13	EmxBA	since june this year
08:14	EmxBA	and used ubuntu since last year
08:13	sabdfl	and in which areas would you say you make the biggest contribution?
08:14	EmxBA	sabdfl: translations, and loco team (that will be the primary thing in the future, yay)
08:14	sabdfl	launchpad.net/people/ubuntumembers/+join
08:15	sabdfl	ok, i see lots of translations, over several months
08:15	sabdfl	what's your top wishlist feature for rosetta?
08:16	EmxBA	wishlist....erm, dunno. rosetta is fine for me, sabdfl
08:15	mako	EmxBA: how many people are involved in the bosnian loco?
08:16	EmxBA	just me for now, because it's started few weeks ago, mako
08:16	mako	EmxBA: how long has the team been active?
08:16	EmxBA	mako: the wiki page appeared on 30th october 2006
08:16	mako	EmxBA: nobody else has expressed interest?
08:16	mako	yet
08:18	EmxBA	mako: did, on the Bosnian LUG forum (forum.linux.org.ba), but there are no members yet. the things that were the main was IRC (and IRC meeting were organized too), and maling list. the resources are there and there are members on the forum and i know lots of them (use ubuntu for a lot)
08:17	sabdfl	EmxBA: +1 from me, on the basis of lots of translation contributions
08:17	mako	right, the translations work is very good
08:18	mako	i don't know how i feel about a loco team with only on member.. still a great way to do promotion but not much of a team ;)
08:18	EmxBA	i told you, it has opened recently...
08:18	mako	EmxBA: yes yes, i know :)
08:19	sabdfl	EmxBA: so you are saying there are bosnian contributors on irc, mailing list, just not signed up in LP team?
08:19	EmxBA	and i'm also translating ubuntu guide to bosnian - http://start.linux.org.ba/Ubuntu_priru%C4%8Dnik
08:19	EmxBA	sabdfl: yes, for now. but look e.g at http://launchpad.net/people/vljubovic, he has more than 2 million karma points
08:19	sabdfl	ok, i'm happy
08:19	mako	anyway, i'm happy with membership based on translations and advocacy work
08:20	EmxBA	or this guy https://launchpad.net/people/jklipic which lives in germany, or the bosnian https://launchpad.net/people/kenanh which helps a lot in the LUG too
=== mako nods
08:20	mako	EmxBA: keep up the good work
08:20	mako	+1 for me
08:20	sabdfl	and ask vlubovic to apply for membership too, if he wants :-)
=== somerville32 woots for EmxBA! :)
=== mako nods to sabdfl
08:20	elmo	+1 from me too
08:20	sabdfl	superb, welcome aboard, EmxBA
08:20	EmxBA	just, I'm afraid that your opinions will change because of my years, assuming I'm the youngest active Ubuntu contributor
08:21	sabdfl	youth is no obstacle - contribution, and approach (CoC) count
08:21	sabdfl	hmm... should ask age on LP, so we would know who the oldest contributor is, too!
08:21	mako	EmxBA: you're probably not the youngest
08:21	somerville32	Toby Smithe is 13 or 14
08:21	EmxBA	active contributor, mako?
08:21	mako	EmxBA: yes
08:22	maxamillion	the founder of fluxbuntu is 19 and that impressed me :)
08:22	mako	i'm not sure, but we've approved membership applications from people who are 13 and 14 before
08:22	sabdfl	EmxBA: you hear that? you're *old* :-)
08:22	EmxBA	OK, thank you!!! I like Ubuntu more than I used to :)))
08:23	EmxBA	thanks sabdfl, it was nice chatting with the person whose article I've written on Bosnian Wikipedia :))) and others from CC ;)

08:22	elmo	somerville32: I think you're next
08:22	somerville32	Hi, My name is Cody A.W. Somerville (aka somerville32) and I'm here today to apply for membership to the Ubuntu Community. I believe I have made an active and sustained contribution to *Ubuntu over the last few months through Translation and Localisation to English (Ca), support to users on #xubuntu, regular bug triage and support on Launchpad, local advocacy, development and administration of the Xubuntu.org websit
08:22	somerville32	e, as an active contributor to the Xubuntu Welcome Centre project and specification, as a regular contributor to xubuntu-devel mailing list, as an xubuntu developmer, my presentation at Ubuntu Open Week, as an editor of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, as the Xubuntu Wiki maintainer, as an IRC op and contact for the Xubuntu namespace, packaging, community development, and much more with roughly 40hrs a week devoted to
08:22	somerville32	*Ubuntu. Looking to the future, I'd like to continue to contribute in the aforementioned areas and will work on improving the desktop experience, further development of the Xubuntu and Ubuntu community, documentation, contributing upstream, plus numerous other endeavors. One day I hope to become a Canonical employee so that I can work on Xubuntu full time! :]
08:22	somerville32	My Wiki page can be found at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CodySomerville
08:22	somerville32	P.S. Big thanks to Jenda, Burgundavia, Seveas, Gloubiboulga, Vincent, Gnomefreak, Crimsun, TheSheep, Maxamillion, Jani, LjL, Tonyyarruso, dholbach (plus thanks for all the hugs), members of the Xubuntu and Ubuntu Community, and the numerous other individuals that I've had the pleasure of working with!! *hugs*
08:23	sabdfl	somerville32: really nice wiki page
08:23	sabdfl	those have become very, very good lately
08:23	somerville32	Thanks :]
08:24	jenda	Cody somerville32 has been a great help with the Ubuntu Weekly News recently.
=== imbrandon is here to cheer a bit for somerville32 also , he has been trying to learn ( and doing a good job of it ) packaging too
08:24	mako	i need to meet with someone who is leaving in 40 minutes
08:24	sabdfl	somerville32: how's the xubuntu community shaping up?
08:24	jenda	(and some nice work with teh open week too)
08:24	somerville32	sabdfl: I think Feisty is going to be a big milestone for us. Community activity has seen a dramatic increase since the release of Dapper.
08:24	sabdfl	what's driving the community activity?
08:25	maxamillion	Cody Somerille is driving community activity
08:25	tonyyarusso	I'll wave a little somerville32 flag for work on UWN past and upcoming - he signed up for quite a few "beats" at our last mtg :)
08:25	jenda	PLUS he's from Fredericton, which was my home for a year, so I definitely think he deserves membership :)
08:25	mako	tonyyarusso: great
08:25	maxamillion	sabdfl: cody is probably the single most active part of xubuntu and does a great deal of organization for the rest of us to have direction in our contributions
08:25	theCore	sabdfl: probably, digg.com :)
08:26	sabdfl	translation is all recent for somerville32
08:26	mako	somerville32: great wikipage
08:26	somerville32	Thanks :)
08:26	sabdfl	cody, are you actively packaging much?
08:26	somerville32	sabdfl: Yes.
08:26	sabdfl	who's sponsoring your uploads?
08:27	somerville32	Crimsun has agreed to be my mentor and sponsor.
08:27	imbrandon	sabdfl: yes he is a regular in the #ubuntu-motu channel soaking up as much as possible and even helping other motu hopefulls where he can
08:27	elmo	how many xubuntu folks are core-dev atm?
08:27	somerville32	elmo: A handful, I would guess.
08:27	sabdfl	somerville32: when would you say you became an active contributor, rather than user?
08:28	somerville32	sabdfl: Ever since I started using Ubuntu, I've helped out and what not in IRC. However, I would say that I started to take an active role as a contributor 3-4 months ago.
08:29	sabdfl	ok, +1 from me on the basis of a wide variety of contributions over several months
08:29	MacSlow	imbrandon, greetings btw
08:29	mako	somerville32: yeah, there is a wide range of contributions and good documentation
08:29	elmo	+1, same
08:29	imbrandon	moins MacSlow
08:29	mako	+! for me
08:29	mako	+1 even
08:30	sabdfl	ok, welcome aboard somerville32
08:30	somerville32	Thanks. :)
08:30	sabdfl	will update LP now
08:30	maxamillion	w00t for somerville32 !!!!!

08:28	EmxBA	can someone give us, new members, a FAQ list or wiki page about things that should be done after the approval process? irc cloak and mail on ubuntu.com comes when?
08:29	EmxBA	and membership on ubuntumembers is 2 years?
08:32	apokryphos	EmxBA: for a cloak ping Seveas, when he's around
08:33	sabdfl	EmxBA: email address comes automatically, with a short delay
08:33	sabdfl	@ubuntu.com will forward to your LP preferred email
08:33	EmxBA	ok, my mail is available on launchpad page
08:33	EmxBA	ok

08:30	elmo	jonh_wendell: you're up, go
08:30	jonh_wendell	Hello. My name is Jonh Wendell. I'm a 27 years old programmer by profession. I started using Linux in 1997 at School. I like to contribute with FOSS. It's very exciting. Mainly coding. I really like to code! Triaging bugs is a very cool activity too.
08:30	jonh_wendell	My wikipage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JonhWendell
08:30	jonh_wendell	My LP id: https://launchpad.net/people/wendell
08:31	sabdfl	jonh_wendell: you look really young for your age!
08:31	jonh_wendell	haha
08:31	sabdfl	ah, your son :-)
08:31	sabdfl	where would you say you make the biggest contribution to the project?
08:31	seb128	jonh_wendell is doing a rocking work on desktop bugs, on launchpad and also working with upstream
08:31	jonh_wendell	sabdfl, translation and bug triage, i guess
08:31	sabdfl	i see lots of bug work, which is really great
08:32	sabdfl	where in brazil do you live?
08:32	jonh_wendell	sabdfl, Macei - AL
08:32	jonh_wendell	sabdfl, Water paradise, a lot of wonderful beaches
08:32	sabdfl	do you have any specific suggestions about how we can help the brazilian community?
08:33	jonh_wendell	sabdfl, almost everything is nice in ubuntu-br
08:33	sabdfl	who would you describe as the strongest leaders of the ubuntu-br community?
08:33	elmo	where are the usual ubuntu-br  cheering contingent?
08:34	jonh_wendell	sabdfl, maybe we need a change
08:34	jonh_wendell	sabdfl, because there are some personal issues involved...
08:35	jonh_wendell	sabdfl, but i can't tell much because i'm relative novice on ubuntu-br
08:35	sabdfl	jonh_wendell: ok. you can encourage folks to talk those issues through in a forum or irc or mailing list, and raise any disputes to CC if needed. how long would you say you have been an active contributor?
08:36	jonh_wendell	sabdfl, in Ubuntu, since July, 2006, when i finished my university
08:36	sabdfl	jonh_wendell: +1 from me, mainly on bug triage and advocacy
08:37	jonh_wendell	elmo, translation, documentation really makes difference on our community
08:37	sabdfl	i must say i think the brazilian community is amazing
08:37	sabdfl	i know there are some tensions
08:37	dholbach	I'm very happy with jonh_wendell too!
08:37	sabdfl	i'd like to see those resolved - but they don't seem to be slowing things down
08:37	jonh_wendell	thanks, seb128, dholbach
08:38	sabdfl	elmo?
08:38	elmo	+1
08:38	sabdfl	welcome aboard - jonh_wendell!
08:38	sabdfl	LP updated
08:38	seb128	jonh_wendell: congrat!
08:38	elmo	jderose: I think you're next
08:38	jonh_wendell	thanks!!!!

08:38	elmo	go
08:38	jderose	Hello everyone! My name is Jason DeRose.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JasonGerardDerose https://launchpad.net/people/jderose
08:38	jderose	After talking to seb128, I think I might have given more weight to my upstream work than I should have (as far as Ubuntu member candidacy is concerned), but I guess it doesn't hurt to try. ;) slomo might have had a chance to look at my KungFu package. A few people might remember me from DebConf in Brazil...
08:39	jderose	I wrote KungFu, a Python-gtk-gstreamer based DVD ripper, which I have packaged for Ubuntu and hope to get included in Feisty. I'm working on implementing full DVD support under gstreamer0.10, which I might finish in time to be included in Feisty. My development work has generally been upstream, but I wish to use my upstream experience, particularly with GStreamer, to help improve Ubuntu where I can. And once I am less
08:40	elmo	jderose: how long have you been contributing to ubuntu?
08:41	jderose	my first packaging was about 10 months ago, fuplayer...
08:41	sabdfl	how many packages have you worked on?
08:42	jderose	the past 3 moths or so i've been a lot more active.... i've packaged two apps i've written, fuplayer and kungfu.
08:42	sabdfl	jderose: what do you think of pulse audio?
08:42	sabdfl	are you active on mailing lists, irc, or forums?
08:43	elmo	oh, and who's been sponsoring your packages?
08:43	seb128	the few bugs I've read from jderose are good quality ones (testcases attached to the bugs and a gstreamer patch by example), he didn't work on a lot of bugs for now though
08:43	jderose	i don't know a great deal about it yet, but is looks very interesting.  there is heating discussion on gst-devel lately  about audio server, mostly over how to address pro-audio issues.
08:43	jderose	slomo is going to sponsor kungfu.
08:44	sabdfl	jderose: i really like the quality of your contribution, but i think we normally look for a longer period of active participation
08:44	sabdfl	would it be reasonable to say "keep going, come back in a month or two"?
08:44	jderose	sabdfl: fair enough. i can apply again later if that is the consensus.
08:44	jderose	sabdfl: sure.  ;)
08:44	sabdfl	it seems you do very crisp work, which is nice
08:44	sabdfl	sorry about the LONG delay in getting to you :-)
08:45	sabdfl	sitting through a full CC meeting should earn major karma points
08:45	jderose	sabdlf: no worries, it was a learning experience.  ;)  how long should i wait before trying to apply again?
08:45	sabdfl	jderose: chat with seb128 and dholbach

08:45	sabdfl	who's next?
08:45	sabdfl	tonyyarusso: go go go!
08:45	tonyyarusso	Hello, I am Tony Yarusso.  I've been most present on IRC, providing (and receiving) user support, as a member of the New User Network, Canadian Team, and most recently, IRC Team, among others.  With the NUN I gave a class on GPG, and helped moderate for Open Week.  I also dabble in documentation and marketing, and have begun looking into coordinating a translation, specifications, and helping out with the UWN.
08:45	sabdfl	when they are happy, come again
08:45	tonyyarusso	I also spend time on mailing lists and answering support queries in LP.  More detailed information can be found on the Wiki (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TonyYarusso) and LP (https://launchpad.net/people/tonyyarusso).
08:46	sabdfl	how's the NUN going?
08:46	tonyyarusso	A little of each.
08:46	apokryphos	tonyyarusso is a VERY helpful user on IRC and a recent addition to our Operator team
08:46	keeb	tonyyarusso: is a very cool guy, always there to help.
08:46	tonyyarusso	When we have stuff, it's awesome.  Although, sometimes we lack instructors for classes - the one I did was a pretty last minute fill in.
08:46	lophylap	tonyyarusso is an awesome addition to the -ca loco team :)
08:47	keeb	I have seen him work in #ubuntu and #ubuntu-offtopic, always very helpful, very knowledgeable, and very polite
08:47	PFA	he is the only person who is actually patient enough to sort through my numerous and various computer woes
=== lophylap formally vouches for tonyyarusso
08:47	sabdfl	tonyyarusso: are you often acting as an OP on IRC?
08:47	tonyyarusso	For NUN stuff, I think it would be great if we could expand our base of instructors.  A lot of the stuff we do is pretty basic, but people hear "teach" and aren't sure if they're qualified.
08:48	tonyyarusso	sabdfl: Every day for the last what, week and a half now?
08:48	apokryphos	he's been doing well :)
08:48	sabdfl	tonyyarusso: how long have you been an active contributor?
08:49	tonyyarusso	sabdfl: Well, I started giving answers that others had given me on IRC pretty much the same week I started.  It was probably four months or so in (after aug 05) that the amount I could give back was reaching a critical mass
08:49	sabdfl	ok, +1 from me for a sustained and significant contribution, mostly in user support
08:49	Burgwork	tonyyarusso has been an active contributor to the the UWN and the Canadian Team
08:49	tonyyarusso	Beyond IRC, other things started falling into place around this time - Feb last year.
08:50	nalioth	tonyyarusso is an asset to the Ubuntu community
08:50	somerville32	+1 for tonyyarusso !
08:50	PFA	tonyyarusso is the king of canada
08:50	keeb	lol
08:50	PFA	srsly, he is mega awesome and all kinds of things.
08:50	elmo	+1 from me too
08:51	apokryphos	congrats, tonyyarusso 8)
08:51	keeb	grats, tonyyarusso :)
08:51	PFA	yay!! ^^
08:51	theCore	congrats, tonyyarusso
08:51	PriceChild	well done
08:51	jenda	congrats tony :)
08:51	tonyyarusso	My long-term future project is looking at an Ojibwe translation, which I expect will be slow going, but super cool :)
08:51	tonyyarusso	Thanks all!
08:51	jbailey	Eh, cool.
08:52	jbailey	(For those who don't know, Ojibwe is a fairly commonly spoken native language in Canada)
08:53	sabdfl	ok
08:53	sabdfl	wow

08:53	sabdfl	two quick announcements from the CC, based on a call we had earlier
08:54	sabdfl	we have all approved the idea of creating a new position of "CC Secretary"
08:54	sabdfl	and we have invited Seveas to take that office as its founding title holder :-)
08:54	sabdfl	Seveas makes a huge contribution to ubuntu
08:54	sabdfl	especially to keeping the CC and other leading groups on track
08:54	sabdfl	and we think that's a job that deserves specific recognition
08:55	sabdfl	so, thank you seveas, and congratulations on the new position
08:55	sabdfl	also, we discussed expanding the CC
08:55	ajmitch	congratulations Seveas, if you're around still :)
08:55	sabdfl	i will make some nominations later this month, after discussing them with the folks concerned
08:55	sabdfl	ubuntumembers will have a series of votes to confirm those nominations or veto them
08:56	sabdfl	we will have two types of nominations
08:56	sabdfl	some will be straight up-or-down confirmation/veto votes
08:56	sabdfl	others will be more like a race, with m candidates where we will accept the top n into the CC
08:56	sabdfl	cjwatson is going to step down from the CC after an amazing two and a half years of leadership there
08:57	sabdfl	he will stand for the TB next (ubuntu-dev and ubuntu-core-dev vote to confirm nominations to the TB)
08:57	sabdfl	that's all from me
08:57	sabdfl	closing comments, mako, elmo?
08:57	elmo	not from me
08:57	sabdfl	i think mako's stepped afk
08:57	PriceChild	Thanks CC :)
08:57	sabdfl	ok, THANK YOU everyone!
08:58	sabdfl	yowser, we got through a lot
08:58	sabdfl	in like 9 hours :-)
08:58	kalon33	thanks sabdfl
</pre>
