{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   03:32 janimo      hi, sorry I thought it was Tuesday
   === zul [n=chuck@ubuntu/member/zul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:33 nomed       eheh
   03:33 janimo      do we have an agenda?
   03:33 janimo      nomed, thanks for the poke :)
   03:33 nomed       janimo: not really
   === bimberi [n=bimberi@ubuntu/member/pdpc.active.bimberi] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   === i_m_meen [i=i_m_meen@85.186.238.185] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:33 janimo      hmm, let's improvise again then
   03:34 nomed       janimo: this are some notes
   03:34 nomed       https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanieleFavara/DapperXubuntuEspresso
   03:34 janimo      the main topic now is testing BETA candidate CDs
   === Gloubiboulga [n=gauvain@ubuntu/member/gloubiboulga] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:34 janimo      nomed, hmm we have nautilus and metacity stuff on the CD??
   03:34 janimo      sneaky
   03:35 nomed       janimo: it should be fixed now
   03:35 janimo      oh on the liveCD, that;s fin
   === Harti [n=Harti@dslb-082-083-236-241.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:35 nomed       it was python-gnome2-extras
   03:35 janimo      fixed? did COlin drop that?
   03:35 nomed       called by espresso gtk ui
   03:35 nomed       Kamion: told me yes
   03:36 janimo      ok, anyway since it is on the live it's not such a big problem
   03:36 nomed       as the function that imports gtkmozembed is commented ...
   03:36 janimo      with gconf we have to live in the install as sevaral packages use it
   03:36 janimo      aha I see
   03:36 janimo      cool
   03:37 janimo      then we'll have an even smalled liveCD :)
   03:37 janimo      the small fonts I did not see
   === i_m_meen [i=i_m_meen@85.186.238.185] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   03:37 janimo      I wil be testing more today
   03:37 nomed       janimo: it's strange that
   03:37 nomed       if i use dpi 96 in firefox they are really small
   03:37 nomed       for me at least
   03:38 nomed       if i use system default
   03:38 nomed       they are bigger
   03:38 Kamion      nomed: not uploaded yet, but will be today
   03:38 nomed       even if xinitrc sets them to 96
   03:39 nomed       Kamion: yep
   03:41 nomed       janimo: it's possible then xarchiver 0.4 will not be ready for dapper
   03:41 nomed       that means we have to add patches
   03:41 janimo      nomed, I assumed so. I'll try to stabilize 0.3.1 . Oh well
   03:42 nomed       the devel already sent me the ones that are needed
   03:42 janimo      the thunar plugin is too nice to miss
   03:42 janimo      nomed, why can they not release 0.3.2 themselves
   03:42 nomed       janimo: i don't really know
   03:42 janimo      now they have svn there's no excuse for sending patches :)
   03:43 janimo      nomed, yes I know you don't know, sorry :)
   03:43 nomed       thay are considering 0.4 as next release
   03:43 nomed       just that
   03:43 nomed       :/
   03:43 janimo      I would have preferred they started learning gtk after dapper releases ;)
   03:44 janimo      nomed, the startpage problem is expected, we'll mention it in the release notes
   === doc_ [n=doc@CPE-72-128-84-225.wi.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:44 janimo      did you chose en_GB locale right?
   03:45 nomed       janimo: yes
   03:46 janimo      ok, we should gather the known problems on a wiki page and point to it from the announcement
   03:46 nomed       janimo: what's nice is that he told me xarchiver now is really faster ..
   03:46 janimo      so they know we are on them
   03:46 janimo      nomed, that's nice
   === Harti [n=Harti@dslb-082-083-236-241.pools.arcor-ip.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["-carpe]
   03:46 janimo      although I am not sure how often one deals with 60K files in one archive
   03:46 janimo      ;)
   03:46 nomed       eheheh
   03:47 janimo      if it's faster because they cleaned up and structured the code better great
   03:47 janimo      if it's faster because they started optimizing while still having unsolved bugs, less great . but it's their project :)
   03:48 nomed       ehehe .. i guess it's both of them
   03:48 nomed       better support for same archives .. but still issues on others
   03:49 janimo      if we cover tar.gz, bz2 ans zip I say that's good enough
   03:49 janimo      iso images support is not that necessary
   03:49 janimo      or arj for that matter
   03:49 nomed       janimo: these should be already supported
   === i_m_meen [i=i_m_meen@85.186.238.185] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:51 nomed       janimo: i do not think there is that much to say
   03:51 janimo      right
   03:51 janimo      we should just test the current ISOs a lot
   03:51 nomed       maybe just to define a deadline for that color scheme stuff ?
   03:51 janimo      which I'll do as soon as rsycn finishes
   03:51 janimo      nomed, yes that too
   03:52 janimo      although I hoped that afer trying beta we will see what users think of the current artwork
   03:53 janimo      but I still find it hard to choose between those proposals since it's not only the color theme that is different
   03:53 nomed       i'm not subscribed to #ubuntu-art .. it would be nice if someone (that is) could send a mail
   03:53 janimo      I am not either :)
   03:54 janimo      but that may become more extravagant proposals when all we need now is converging on what we have
   03:54 janimo      I'll set a deadline for next monday then.
   03:54 janimo      and tell the list
   === juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Verlassend"]
   03:55 nomed       better yes :)
   03:55 nomed       that seems to be what we have :)
   === strapal [n=strapal@dsl51B79931.pool.t-online.hu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:56 nomed       janimo: if you decided to include OOo there is a known issue
   03:56 janimo      nomed, which?
   03:57 janimo      it's on the install CD currently
   03:57 nomed       <Harti> i changed from "ooffice -calc %U" to "oocalc %U" and then its fine
   03:57 janimo      but I have yet to try it
   === Jim7J1AJH [n=jim@221x115x224x2.ap221.ftth.ucom.ne.jp] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:57 janimo      hmm, packages missing?
   03:57 nomed       i do not have OOo so i don't know ..
   03:57 nomed       janimo: well more a desktop files issue
   03:57 janimo      there are a few transitional packages that need to be added probably
   03:57 janimo      nomed, thanks I'll look into it
   03:57 nomed       Exec: entries
   03:58 janimo      aha
   03:59 janimo      I don't have an ooffice command
   03:59 janimo      I wonder what installs it in the menu
   === highvoltage [n=Jono@196.36.161.235] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:59 janimo      actually I do
   03:59 janimo      misspelled it
   === ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Xubuntu | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 20 Apr 20:00 UTC: Dapper Development Status | 25 Apr 20:00 UTC: Technical Board | 26 Apr 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 26 Apr 13:30 UTC: Xubuntu | 27 Apr 02:00 UTC: Dapper Development Status
   04:01 nomed       janimo: i do not see anywere "minimal system requirements" for xubuntu
   04:01 nomed       that's something users ask often ...
   04:01 janimo      nomed, we don;t know what they are :)
   04:02 janimo      I ran it (sluggishly) on 64M 600MHz
   04:02 janimo      obviously the memory is that matters more
   04:02 nomed       we should figure it out i guess :)
   === i_m_meen [i=i_m_meen@85.186.238.185] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   04:02 janimo      right, hopefully by tomorrow, after the CDs are installed
   04:03 nomed       that's what (possible) new users usually ask on #xubuntu
   04:03 strapal     without libjpeg-progs, i can,t rotate my images in gqview - why isnt this package on the CD?
   04:04 janimo      strapal, a bug most likely
   04:04 janimo      strapal, I'll add it to the desktop, thanks. it's in main so it's ok
   04:05 strapal     aha, thx
   04:06 janimo      strapal: ok, should be in next xubuntu-desktop, but not likely for beta
   === Fracture [n=Fracture@dsl-202-173-191-84.qld.westnet.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:08 janimo      ok, anything else?
  
</pre>
