{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Open Week -- How to Make Posters using Inkscape - Martin Owens  -- Tue, Oct 12 ===
<pre>
[16:46] <doctormo> Welcome to the Making Posters in Inkscape session, we've taken a bit of extra time because we need to do some prep work.
[16:47] <doctormo> the first thing to do is to install inkscape, http://doctormo.org/install.pl?inkscape <- click there
[16:48] <doctormo> One of the important parts of doing media work is organising yourself so you can find everything. Poster creation, like all publishing, is about bringing lots of existing elements together.
[16:50] <doctormo> I'd like you to make a special folder to keep all your artworks in. Me I use ~/Graphics/
[16:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
=== ChanServ changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to the Ubuntu Classroom - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom || Support in #ubuntu || Upcoming Schedule: http://is.gd/8rtIi || Questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Event: Ubuntu Open Week - Current Session: How to Make Posters using Inkscape - Instructors: doctormo
[16:51] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/10/12/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[16:52] <doctormo> I'm going to give you a library of existing elements, I've tried my hardest to document the licensing where it's original or commissioned work. I'd like you to download, extract and store in your graphics folder. I store mine in ~/Graphics/Media
[16:52] <doctormo> http://divajutta.com/doctormo/art/Media.tar.gz
[16:52] <doctormo> This is a my precious media archive which all LoCo people, art and marketing people should download.
[16:55] <doctormo> Once you have extracted your archive, I'd like you to open inkscape and get comfortable, open up your media directory too.
[16:55] <doctormo> http://divajutta.com/doctormo/art/inkscape-setup.png
[16:55] <doctormo> This is my work environment for making published media like posters.
[16:58] <doctormo> If you've got that all setup, then congratulations your ready for the class. I'll be printing this back out at 12:00 for everyone who has joined since and if all you who are ready can help those who are not in chat, that would be great.
[17:00] <doctormo> Welcome again to the Making Posters in Inkscape session, you will need to do some prep work to get ready. For everyone who has joined us since the hour.
[17:01] <doctormo> The first thing to do is to install inkscape, http://doctormo.org/install.pl?inkscape <- click there
[17:01] <doctormo> One of the important parts of doing media work is organising yourself so you can find everything. Poster creation, like all publishing, is about bringing lots of existing elements together.
[17:01] <doctormo> I'd like you to make a special folder to keep all your artworks in. Me, I use ~/Graphics/
[17:01] <doctormo> I'm going to give you a library of existing elements, I've tried my hardest to document the licensing where it's original or commissioned work.
[17:01] <doctormo> http://divajutta.com/doctormo/art/Media.tar.gz <- I'd like you to download, extract and store in your graphics folder. I store mine in ~/Graphics/Media
[17:01] <doctormo> Once you have extracted your archive, I'd like you to open inkscape and get comfortable, open up your media directory too.
[17:01] <doctormo> http://divajutta.com/doctormo/art/inkscape-setup.png 11:55 <- Just like this
[17:01] <doctormo> This is my work environment for making published media like posters.
[17:01] <doctormo> If you've got that all setup, then congratulations your ready for the class.
[17:02] <doctormo> I'll give you all another 3 minutes to do that, downloading the 7MB archive might take a second.
[17:05] <doctormo> You can extract the archive by right clicking on it and selecting "Extract here"
[17:05] <doctormo> You can have a look through the folders and see what's there, all fun stuff.
[17:06] <doctormo> OK time to move on, don't worry if your still downloading, we'll be doing backgrounds first.
[17:06] <doctormo> In your inkscape window, you'll have a canvas. It's important at this stage to get your canvas the right size and orentation.
[17:06] <doctormo> File > Document Properties
[17:07] <doctormo> In the Format selection, we're going to select Ledger/Tabloid which is two US Letter sheets stuck together. You can also use A3.
[17:08] <doctormo> Where it says background, we're going to click on that and change the colour to pure white with no transparency.
[17:09] <doctormo> Close that preferences window and go back tot he canvas.
[17:09] <doctormo> Goto File > Save As and save your work, use the save button on the toolbar religiously.
[17:10] <doctormo> Next we're going to make a square using the draw square tool
[17:11] <doctormo> Make a square just less than the size of the canvas. Clicking on the fill/stroke properties we want to give this square a 4px black border and an orange fill, your choice on complexity.
[17:13] <doctormo> http://divajutta.com/doctormo/art/Screenshot.png <- Like this
[17:15] <doctormo> Next we're going to write a title on our poster, I like to have a collection of fonts as much as I like a collection of media.
[17:15] <doctormo> I install ttf-aenigma to get access to a lot of interesting fonts and fill my ~/.fonts directory with downloaded ttf files.
[17:16] <doctormo> http://doctormo.org/install.pl?ttf-aenigma
[17:16] <doctormo> You may have to restart inkscape to see the new fonts.
[17:18] <doctormo> Once you have some text, we'll want to drag over an Ubuntu logo, which should be in the Ubuntu media folder.
[17:18] <doctormo> Like so: http://divajutta.com/doctormo/art/Screenshot-1.png
[17:21] <doctormo> Drag over some other elements and place them in your poster, go with images that reflect the style you want to convay.
[17:22] <doctormo> All these media elements are svg, so they're all editable and decomposable too.
[17:22] <doctormo> At this point I'd like to download some new media to put in my directory
[17:22] <doctormo> If it's something factual, like a flag, icon or brand I can use google to search wikimedia and type in "dell logo svg" for instance to get the svg.
[17:23] <doctormo> Make sure that when downloading from wikimedia you download the svg and not the png.
[17:24] <doctormo> For more creative works you can head over to http://openclipart.org and search the vast collections of works for svgs which fit your theme.
[17:24] <doctormo> You can also take any of the works on spread Ubuntu, I limit myself to the svg works as they're the most flexible. http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/
[17:25] <doctormo> Spread Ubuntu is incidentally where you should upload your poster once it's done.
[17:27] <doctormo> Once you've got all your downloadable elements together, next is the more creative part
[17:27] <doctormo> designing
[17:29] <doctormo> At this point we have to work a bit on Copyright. sorry guys!
[17:29] <doctormo> I's important
[17:29] <doctormo> For any pieces that you work on or that you download from openclipart (which are public domain) you don't need to worry at all.
[17:30] <doctormo> For works you downloaded from elsewhere, you need to pay close attention to the license and abide by the rules.
[17:30] <doctormo> A lot of the media I've given you is CC-BY-SA, so you're posters if they use those, will also need to be CC-BY-SA when you publish them.
[17:30] <doctormo> You'll also need to credit the authors, so keep a record of them if you can.
[17:31] <doctormo> Keeping a clean copyright workflow allows you a much better sense of security that your work isn't infringing on anything.
[17:31] <doctormo> this is what I have so far -> http://divajutta.com/doctormo/art/Screenshot-2.png
=== JoeMaver1ckSett is now known as JoeMavericksett
[17:32] <ClassBot> anneboleyn asked: What if I use some open-source stuff and some that are not free?
[17:33] <doctormo> You have to license work from the original authors in ways that are compatible. It's not possible to legally combine non-free and share-alike works for instance.
[17:33] <doctormo> If in doubt, make your own and license freely.
[17:36] <ClassBot> anneboleyn asked: Where can I get help in doing that (getting my own license)?
[17:37] <doctormo> You can get your own license from http://creativecommons.org/licenses/ you can of course always make your own, but that's legally unsure.
[17:38] <doctormo> OK so now if you've got something worthwhile and you've saved it.
[17:38] <doctormo> You'll need to know how to print it so it comes out like you expect.
[17:38] <doctormo> Make sure at this point to save your poster.
[17:39] <doctormo> You can save an SVG in inkscape as a PDF, but elements like blur and advanced filter effects are not accepted in pdf so they fail to translate.
[17:40] <doctormo> You'll also notice that inkscape svg itself is slightly incompatibility with text fields appearing blank or as black squares in other svg viewers. (don't worry!) you can save your svg as a svg 1.1 compatible file for viewing in other programs.
[17:40] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[17:41] <doctormo> The best process I've found is to use File > Export Bitmap and export the full page (select the page tab) at 300dpi
[17:41] <doctormo> You can then convert the png output into a pdf using imagemagik, gimp etc. This will be bigger than an svg -> pdf output, but it'll be much safer.
[17:41] <doctormo> Please do ask your questions now.
[17:45] <ClassBot> jothejo2 asked: doctormo can i add scripts in inkscape?
[17:45] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[17:46] <doctormo> jothejo2: Yes, you can make python, perl scripts as extentions. Do a web search for "python extentions" and read existing code.
[17:46] <doctormo> This is where I have got to now, going mad with inkscape: http://divajutta.com/doctormo/art/Screenshot-3.png
[17:46] <doctormo> How are you all doing?
[17:47] <ClassBot> avagraphique asked: do you use a font manager and what font file types are compatible to use in linux/ubuntu (ex ttf, postscript, otf)?
[17:48] <doctormo> ttf and otf are both compatible, I believe postscript and svg embedded fonts can be converted. I don't use a font manager, I make a symbolic link between the .fotns directory in my home folder and ~/Fonts which i just fill up witht he ttf files.
[17:49] <doctormo> Thank you all for coming to my session and I hope you spread the word about how easy this all is.
[17:49] <doctormo> Education is the primary activity we need to be doing! :-D
[17:51] <doctormo> Bye!
</pre>
