{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** None 
* Precise Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
* None

===== Precise Development =====
* Discussion of team <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-server.html|Work Items]]</nowiki>. Any feature which will not be uploaded by this Thursday, needs to be marked defered or discuss a FinalFreeze Exception
* Discussion of <nowiki>[[http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html|relevant bugs]]</nowiki>

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
* <nowiki>[[http://strataconf.com/strata2012|Strata 2012]]</nowiki>, m_3 will join.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
* None

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
* None

===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) =====
* None

===== Open Discussion =====
* Nothing interesting.

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====
* Tuesday 2012-02-21 at 1600 UTC; chair should be utlemming or Daviey

===== Meeting Actions =====
* None

=== Log ===
<pre>
<Ursinha> #startmeeting
<meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb 14 16:03:47 2012 UTC.  The chair is Ursinha. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
<meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
<Ursinha> :)
 thanks hallyn
 [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
<jamespage> o/
<zul> hello
<adam_g> \o
<Daviey> hullo
<Ursinha> man, I can't find any
 hehe
 there is none, it seems :)
 moving on
 [TOPIC] Precise Development
* Ursinha looks at Daviey
<Daviey> Ursinha: want me to drive this?
<Ursinha> Daviey, please, go ahead
<Daviey> Firstly, everyone needs to look at their Work Items (http://status.ubuntu.com)
<Ursinha> (http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html)
<Daviey> Any feature which will not be uploaded by this Thursday, needs to be marked defered or discuss a FinalFreeze Exception
 Anything shouting out as a concern to anyone?
<hallyn> MIRs?
<Daviey> The MIR's are pretty stacked, that is true.
<hallyn> not entirely under our control...
 just take our pick about defer or ffe i guess?
<Daviey> The fact they are raised before FF, carries some benefit.
 I'll talk with jdstrand later today, and see what we can do to make progress
<hallyn> clone him
<rbasak> openmpi, still.
<Daviey> hallyn: Use judgement, but discuss with the driver or release team if more appropriate
<hallyn> ok
<Daviey> rbasak: is that going ahead?
<arosales> Daviey: rbasak and jamespage are currently working through issues with OpenMPI 1.5.  I am trying to find out the use case, and how critical it is.
<rbasak> Looking unlikely to make FF.
<Daviey> arosales / rbasak: Did i see a mail that it might be dropped?
<arosales> sorry for the redundancy.
* Daviey comes back to it
<arosales> Daviey: we are working on delivering, just having to discern the potential impact to other dependent packages.
<Daviey> Okay.. but really - anything of concern should be raised by EoD today to be discussed for defer or raise FFe
<rbasak> Right now I'm fighting all the rdepends at once, but it's looking like perhaps there's a single root cause. If so, I might have a fix pretty soon, but still unlikely to have an upload before FF because of the lag in build testing a sponsor would have to do.
<Daviey> arosales: ok
<arosales> which also hinges on the use case
<Daviey> right
 Okay, shall we move on to bug progress?
 For those at home: http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
 bug 924739
<Daviey>  - Looks like a sucker of a bug for upgrades, and we need to do /something/.. any interest?
 https://launchpad.net/bugs/924739
 no bug bot
<zul> then we have no bugs? :)
<Daviey> bah
 zul: you do, bug https://launchpad.net/bugs/883988 :)
<zul> everything is perfect release now!!
<Daviey>  .. adam_g might have thoughts
<adam_g> Daviey: i took a look last week but made litle progress, unfortunately
<Daviey> adam_g: can you poke jaypipes about it/
 ?
<adam_g> Daviey: yeah. i was working on nova's db code yesterday, ill take another look at glance and see if i can propose something as well
<Daviey> https://launchpad.net/bugs/893926 - COntains traces of UEC - euca'.. low priority. Expecting euca to provide some love to the packages.
<hallyn> (curious, bug 904014 doesn't show up on http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html)
<Daviey> adam_g: rocking
<Daviey> hallyn: odd, i'll investigate
 bug 898373 W fsck.ext3: Device or resource busy while trying to open /dev/xvda2
  - bug for smoser who is not here right now
 911812 W processor fact does not handle arm, others
  - roaksoax / rbasak ?
<rbasak> I offered testing IIRC, but not looked at this otherwise. roaksoax?
<roaksoax> Daviey: i don't have access to my pandaboards yet. Next tuesday I will
<Daviey> okay, great
 914392 W LXC local provider does not respect 'series' (only installs oneiric) W juju
 Spam apes ?
 Hmm, he is not yet here.
<rbasak> I noticed that this was Fix Released in juju
 Waiting on the packaging I guess
<Daviey> rbasak: great! thanks
 bug 923681 W Server install fails when selecting everything but 'VM host' & 'Manual selection' from tasksel
 zul: ^^ ?
<zul> yeah i need to look at that
<Daviey> bug 850443 W Nova API does not listen on IPv6
 i'll look into that
 928383 W python-glance package contains stuff about API and registry W glance
 zul: ?
<adam_g> uh
<zul> uh
<adam_g> thats invalid, filed against the upstream ppa
<Daviey> ahh
 928990 W fsck / dirty filesystem on instance is death - cloud-init
  -- smoser bug
 bug 929780 W console.ring files should not be world readable
<zul> thats fixed
<Daviey> rbasak:
 (nova)
 your last comment is still accurate?
<zul> although the console patch is causing problems
<Daviey> zul: i rebased it, still an issue?
<zul> Daviey: ill check this afternoon
<rbasak> I think we need to verify whether the instance directory is secure or not
<Daviey> rbasak: good thinking
 929127 W linux_net.ensure_metadata_ip() fails on precise W nova
<adam_g> rbasak: ping me later today, i can verify
<rbasak> If it is, then I'd say that the bug is invalid. If it's not, then I'd say that the bug is that the instance directory is insecure
<Daviey> zul: ^^
<rbasak> adam_g: thanks
<Daviey> zul: see 929127?
<zul> adam_g: that should be fixed but needs to be verified
<rbasak> zul: fixed how?
<adam_g> ?
 its fixed upstream, is it released yet in our packaging? i dont think it will be till this weeks snapshot?
<zul> Daviey: should be fixed
 rbasak: should be ill double check
<rbasak> ?
<Daviey> zul: think rbasak was looking for more detail :)
<zul> Daviey: heh once i get more detail ill tell him
<Daviey> okay ;)
 875262 W PHP Startup: Unable to load dynamic library '/usr/lib/php5/20090626+lfs/sqlite.so' W php5 - SpamapS was working with koolhead17
 need Clint to update status
<rbasak> zul: OK, so I'll leave it with you, then?
<zul> rbasak: yes
<rbasak> cool, thanks
<Daviey> roaksoax: 880339 W AppArmor profile needs update W mysql-5.1
<adam_g> rbasak: no, i think he was talking about 929127, unrelated to the instance dir
<roaksoax> Daviey: trying to reproduce it again as we speak, but have been unable too
<rbasak> zul, which bug are you talking about that is fixed?
<Daviey> roaksoax: cool
<zul> rbasak: the libvirt console one
<Daviey> zul: 906654 W nova should depend on openstackx and load appropriate osapi_extensions by default W nova
<rbasak> zul: which libvirt console one?
<zul> rbasak: lets do this after the meeting i have too many plates in the air
 Daviey: that should be invalid
<adam_g> Daviey: thats invalid now, finally
--> SpamapS (~clint@ubuntu/member/spamaps) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<SpamapS> o/
<Daviey> great!
 zul: can you update it so
 SpamapS: good morning
<zul> Daviey: ack
<SpamapS> ahoy
<Daviey> SpamapS: can you comment on bug  875262 W PHP Startup: Unable to load dynamic library '/usr/lib/php5/20090626+lfs/sqlite.so' W php5 ?
 SpamapS: amd bug 914392 W LXC local provider does not respect 'series' (only installs oneiric) W juju - Fixed, awaiting upload, right?
<SpamapS> Daviey: I am going to re-introduce the idea of shipping PHP 5.4.0 today actually. It appears that 5.4.0 final will release on Thursday..
<Daviey> SpamapS: neat!
 SpamapS: Are you going to look at deps?  Last time we broke a string of packages :)
 rdeps
<SpamapS> Daviey: either way, 875262 will be fixed by a merge with Debian, whether its 5.4.0~rc7 from experimental, or 5.3.10 from testing
 Daviey: 5.4 is *a lot* different than 5.3
<zul> but hey thats php for you
<SpamapS> Daviey: the list of backward incompatible changes is about 4 items long, and all of them were marked as deprecated in 5.3 .. so I expect a lot less code explosion
<Daviey> lets defer for the RFC :)
<SpamapS> PHP has changed its ways
<SpamapS> they have a firm RFC process for features, and a feature freeze on major releases.
<Daviey> zul: bug 907197 W ip address can't be injected into the instance when using lxc W nova
<zul> still waiting for time
<m_3> fix for 914392 has made it into juju trunk and ppa... still needs to be bumped in the real archives
<Daviey> zul: bug 879666 W chown error for console.fifo when launching vm W nova ?
<zul> will be fixed today
<Daviey> lynxman / jamespage: ipxe upload?
 m_3: thanks!
<jamespage> done
<SpamapS> Daviey: the LXC bug was fixed upstream in juju yesterday
<Daviey> jamespage: it's been uploaded?
<jamespage> yes
<SpamapS> Daviey: so I'll upload that today or tomorrow.
<Daviey> SpamapS: neat
 jamespage: bug 916489 W grub-ipxe says "B: command not found" , not closed?
<jamespage> hmm
<Daviey> is this hallyn or justinlw: 918791 W qemu-kvm dies when using vmvga driver and unity in the guest
 utlemming: bug 926160 W precise cloud-images significantly larger than oneiric W ubuntu ?
<jamespage> Daviey: missing from changelog - I'll close it manually and with required details.
<Daviey> jamespage: thanks!
<utlemming> Daviey: it looks to be file system meta-data, but I'm still investigating that
<jamespage> Daviey: done
<Daviey> utlemming: okay, how is it progressing?
<hallyn> Daviey: I've not been looking at that one
<utlemming> Daviey: its moving along fine...the fix involves changes to the build system.
<Daviey> adam_g: happen to know how: 928378 W glance client should be separate from server W glance & 901881 W nova and glance should depend on python-keystone W glance is doing?
<hallyn> I was hoping upstream woudl get involved...
<Daviey> utlemming: significant changes?
<hallyn> I can look at it after thursday
<Daviey> utlemming: Can you expand a bit more of what needs to change?
<adam_g> Daviey: i +1 that
<Daviey> adam_g: fix committed?
<adam_g> Daviey: no
<utlemming> Daviey: we need to change the creation of the file system (define the journal size and the max file system size)  or lay down the exact file system used for the instance store images.
<adam_g> Daviey: that might be something to attempt to change in upstream packaging before ubuntu
<Daviey> utlemming: is this a current priority?
 adam_g: ok, are you tracking/driving that?
<adam_g> Daviey: no, but ill ping smoser about it
<utlemming> Daviey: smoser and I determined that it is not critical, and thus medium priority. The fix will come a bit later in the cycle. We're trying to get Query2, Glance and mirroring scripts ASAP.
<Daviey> adam_g: was smoser working on it?
<Daviey> roaksoax: 887186 W squid proxy big and small buckets not functioning correctly .. did you see smoser did some investigating into squid configs.. is that helpful/useful?
<adam_g> Daviey: he had filed the original, i haven't touched it yet
<Daviey> utlemming: Okay, obv. The nearer we get to deeper release milestones, varying of the build system is a concern :)
 adam_g: thanks
<justinlw> daviey: I will take a look at https://launchpad.net/bugs/918791
<Daviey> justinlw: discuss it with hallyn.. you two have a better understanding of that, than i could hope to :)
<utlemming> Daviey: understood :)
<Ursinha> Daviey, any other bugs?
<roaksoax> Daviey: we need to test the newest squid for that really, but I'm not really sure whether we should pull it directly from upstream or wait for debian
<Daviey> utlemming: can you follow up with infinity about 759545 W user prompted to update unmodified grub configuration during Ubuntu server upgrade ?
<utlemming> Daviey: ack
<Daviey> Hmm
 utlemming: 920749 W pam configuration for SSH prevents LANG override, was interesting, right
<utlemming> Daviey: interesting, but the fix is going to take some discussion, probably a blue print for 12.10.
 Daviey: there will be no fix for 12.04
<Daviey> utlemming: can you follow up with cjwatson if it's viable for this cycle?
 stgraber: is bug 850960 on your roadmap?
<utlemming> Daviey: I've had some discussion with him, and the idea is to create a way for dynamic locale's. I developed a fix for it for the images, but cjwatson wants a more holistic solution for desktop and server.
<Daviey> utlemming: right
 ok, i'll leave the other questions unanswered for now
* Daviey passes the baton back to Ursinha
<stgraber> Daviey: it's on one of my lists, not high priority though as I don't actually use iscsi ;)
<Ursinha> merci Daviey
 [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
<Ursinha> any events worth mentioning?
<SpamapS> Is strata coming up soon?
<stgraber> Daviey: the current iscsi works, it's just really ugly as it basically does an exit 0 if it notices an existing iscsi mount from initramfs
<SpamapS> http://strataconf.com/strata2012
 m_3 will be there
 Feb 28 - Mar 1
<Ursinha> anyone else?
<SpamapS> everyone else is still recovering from FOSDEM ;)
<jamespage> :-)
<Ursinha> hehe, okay :)
* Ursinha takes notes
<Ursinha> moving on then
 [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
<Ursinha> is hggdh around?
<hggdh> nothing new from me
 :-)
<Ursinha> thanks hggdh :)
 [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
<smb> Not really much to say right now.
<Ursinha> all right
 moving on..
 [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
<rbasak> Nothing to report.
<Ursinha> :)
 thanks rbasak
 [TOPIC] Open Discussion
<Ursinha> go wild
<Daviey> okjfiojgpoikgrh
 ger
 hg
 th
 rth
<SpamapS> huats: did you want to discuss Zentyal?
<Ursinha> lol
<SpamapS> While we await huats response.. I am in the process of updating erlang and rabbtimq ..
<Daviey> SpamapS: lemme chat out of band to you about rabbitmq
<Ursinha> do you want to discuss that in the meeting or can we just move on?
<Daviey> move on
<Ursinha> righto
 [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
<Ursinha> next meeting should be same time (16utc), Feb. 21
<Daviey> Ursinha: suprise us with the time/date
<Ursinha> who wants to be the chair?
<Daviey> heh, thanks fordriving Ursinha !
<Daviey> Ursinha: you did a GREAT job, fancy making it a regular fixture?
<SpamapS> indeed thanks
<Ursinha> Daviey, lol, I can do that but I know that's only because you all hate to do so
 and I'm a nice girl
<Daviey> netx should be utlemming ?
<Ursinha> utlemming was the first on the list
<utlemming> I thought I was on this week, so I'll plan on it
<Daviey> Ursinha: NO, IT'S THE HILIGHT OF MY WEEK.!
<Ursinha> hahaha
 utlemming, do you want to chair?
<utlemming> Well, if it means so much to Daviey, I can defer
<Daviey> hmm, talking of which - we need to review who isn't on the list..
<Ursinha> you are all so funny
 technically I'm not
 urshina is
<Ursinha> :P
 okay, next week I won't be around, utlemming and Daviey, you decide then!
# endmeeting
<arosales> Ursinha: Thanks for hosting :-)
<Ursinha> thanks all for joining the 2012 valentines' day server meeting 
 cheers!
<Daviey> xxxxx
<SpamapS> XOXO
<-- SpamapS (~clint@ubuntu/member/spamaps) has left #ubuntu-meeting
<adam_g> <3
</pre>
