{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by SpamapS at 16:01:10 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-10-18-16.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''ACTION:'' utlemming to figure out qemu image situation (carry-over)  (SpamapS, 16:06:49)

* Precise Development
''LINK:'' http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html   (SpamapS, 16:09:05)
''ACTION:'' ALL: review http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html and make known any other bugs that need to be added to the list.  (SpamapS, 16:12:09)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events
''LINK:'' lynxman is attending http://www.usenix.org/events/lisa11/index.html

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
''ACTION:'' smb, jamespage, hggdh to work on triaging bug 790712  (SpamapS, 16:22:25)

* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community

* Open Discussion

* Announce next meeting date and time

Tuesday 2011-10-25 16:00 UTC right here in #ubuntu-meeting

Meeting ended at 16:30:33 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* utlemming to figure out qemu image situation (carry-over)
* ALL: review http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html and make known any other bugs that need to be added to the list.
* smb, jamespage, hggdh to work on triaging bug 790712

=== Action items, by person ===

* hggdh
* * smb, jamespage, hggdh to work on triaging bug 790712
* jamespage
* * smb, jamespage, hggdh to work on triaging bug 790712
* smb
* * smb, jamespage, hggdh to work on triaging bug 790712
* **UNASSIGNED**
* * utlemming to figure out qemu image situation (carry-over)
* * ALL: review http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html and make known any other bugs that need to be added to the list.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* SpamapS (53)
* Daviey (25)
* smoser (9)
* smb (9)
* zul (6)
* meetingology (6)
* hggdh (5)
* cprofitt (5)
* ubottu (5)
* lynxman (4)
* jamespage (4)
* hallyn (3)
* bkerensa (2)
* jhunt (2)
* Ursinha (2)
* dr3mro (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:01:10 <SpamapS> #startmeeting ServerTeam

 16:01:10 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct 18 16:01:10 2011 UTC.  The chair is SpamapS. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 16:01:10 <meetingology> 

 16:01:10 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:01:47 <SpamapS> #TOPIC Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:02:23 <SpamapS> zul: is the action list on the wiki page at all accurate?

 16:02:33 <zul> SpamapS: i think so

 16:02:56 <SpamapS> last edit before mine was 10/04

 16:02:59 <zul> although s/oneiric/precise/g

 16:03:08 <SpamapS> hggdh and SpamapS to discuss SRU verification work for bug 750371 at next meeting or before (hggdh to test)

 16:03:10 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 750371 in squid (Ubuntu Maverick) "squid causing /var to stay busy during shutdown" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/750371

 16:03:20 <SpamapS> we'll talk about that when its his turn :)

 16:03:28 <SpamapS> jamespage to follow up with jhunt on udev/lvm bugs including 801494

 16:03:35 <SpamapS> guessing that got solved before the release

 16:03:44 <jamespage> SpamapS, I think the worst of it did

 16:03:51 <SpamapS> smoser, utlemming and smb to follow up on Bug 854050

 16:03:53 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 854050 in linux (Ubuntu) "BUG at /build/buildd/linux-2.6.38/mm/swapfile.c:255" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/854050

 16:04:16 <Daviey> ^^ in smb's section. yeah?

 16:04:17 <smoser> i believe that smb has just put some content there.

 16:04:25 <SpamapS> indeed

 16:04:28 <smb> SpamapS, Just preparing some patches for sru. Unfortunately kernel.org down thing slows things down a bit

 16:04:31 <smoser> he added an SRU justification

 16:04:34 <hallyn> jhunt, were you going to look into the remainibg lvm+udev issues at all?

 16:06:10 <Daviey> (Shall we let him respond in AOB?)

 16:06:28 <SpamapS> indeed

 16:06:32 <SpamapS> utlemming to figure out qemu image situation (carry-over)

 16:06:42 <SpamapS> utlemming isn't here, will carry that one

 16:06:49 <SpamapS> #action utlemming to figure out qemu image situation (carry-over)

 16:06:49 * meetingology utlemming to figure out qemu image situation (carry-over)

 16:06:58 <SpamapS> Daviey to talk to ttx and keystone honcho for guidance about oneiric package

 16:07:04 <SpamapS> guessing that was handled last meeting?

 16:07:06 <jhunt> hallyn: kinda bogged down trying to get the upstart feature destined for oneiric into perfect atm... Happy to look at it, but might be best for an lvm expert to be involved :)

 16:07:23 <hallyn> kthx

 16:07:28 <Daviey> SpamapS: sort of, it's not great shape - but acceptable, until the bugs roll in ;)

 16:07:35 <smoser> perfect.

 16:07:51 <SpamapS> #topic Precise Development

 16:07:57 <Daviey> Sync, Sync, Merge, Sync!

 16:07:58 <Daviey> Start thinking about blueprints you want to achieve. (A formal request will be sent soonly!)

 16:07:59 <SpamapS> Huzzah! a new release is upon us

 16:08:01 <Daviey> Look over bugs and features that were not resolved last cycle, and help consider if they need driving for this cycle.

 16:08:02 <smoser> s/perfect/precise/ i think jhunt

 16:08:04 <Daviey> This is also a good oppertunity to help drive the bug lists down.. We all need to put more time into this process (not just step 1)

 16:08:07 <Daviey> Sync, Sync, Merge, Sync! - This is the time in the cycle, where the heavy lifting is achieved.  Thankfully, we are merging from debian testing (wheezy), meaning that it should be an easier ride.  If you have any questions regarding this, please do ask.

 16:08:11 <Daviey> New release tracking issues, http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html - if you are working on something that is not on that list, please make it known.

 16:08:15 <Daviey> Thanks!

 16:08:57 <SpamapS> #link http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:09:05 <SpamapS> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:09:07 <jhunt> smoser: :) Odd as I have no problem remembering the Pangolin element.

 16:09:10 * SpamapS pokes the bot

 16:09:33 <SpamapS> Anybody have any perfunctory predelections before I move on?

 16:10:18 <Daviey> Wait. nobody is working on bugs not on that list?

 16:10:19 <SpamapS> One thing .. NICE JOB EVERYONE on 11.10 Server

 16:10:25 <smoser> jhunt, its probably more just your general perfection that makes you want to improve the adjective.

 16:10:29 <zul> SpamapS:  yes stop using big words

 16:10:57 <SpamapS> Daviey: have not reviewed the list

 16:11:06 <SpamapS> didn't even know it existed, or what the report means really.

 16:11:31 <Daviey> SpamapS: That is issues that are being worked on to be tracked.

 16:12:09 <SpamapS> #action ALL: review http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html and make known any other bugs that need to be added to the list.

 16:12:09 * meetingology ALL: review http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html and make known any other bugs that need to be added to the list.

 16:12:35 <SpamapS> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:13:09 <SpamapS> Winter is coming, and so is UDS-P

 16:13:49 <Ursinha> brace yourselves

 16:14:01 <SpamapS> Anybody else attending conferences/meetups/tea parties in the near future?

 16:14:23 <lynxman> SpamapS: LISA'11 in December (that's near enough)

 16:14:32 <SpamapS> lynxman: link?

 16:14:47 <lynxman> SpamapS: http://www.usenix.org/events/lisa11/index.html

 16:14:59 <SpamapS> alright, if thats all then..

 16:15:12 <SpamapS> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:15:17 <zul> wohoo...i get to wear shorts in november

 16:15:36 <SpamapS> hggdh: bug 750371 needs a maverick verification.. can you make that happen?

 16:15:38 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 750371 in squid (Ubuntu Maverick) "squid causing /var to stay busy during shutdown" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/750371

 16:16:22 <hggdh> SpamapS: yes. I did test it, but I still see fs messages during boot (but no recovery)

 16:16:28 <hggdh> we need to talk about that

 16:16:37 <SpamapS> hggdh: roger that, lets talk after the meeting

 16:16:44 <SpamapS> anything else?

 16:17:03 <hggdh> no, no news from teh QA front, except getting ready for UDS

 16:17:07 <hggdh> ..

 16:18:03 <SpamapS> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:18:06 <smb> Don't think I got anything exiting right now... Except the get-ready-for-UDS thing...

 16:18:23 * SpamapS is certain smoser has *something* for smb

 16:18:42 <Daviey> smb: hola!

 16:18:50 * smb is sure there is something. There always is. :-P

 16:19:00 <smoser> i can say i dont have anything.

 16:19:12 <Daviey> bug 790712 :)

 16:19:14 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 790712 in linux (Ubuntu Precise) "20110531 i386 server ISO: order 5 allocation failure during install" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/790712

 16:19:34 <Daviey> Did you get the info you needed?

 16:19:47 * smb cannot remember having seen something...

 16:20:29 <Daviey> hmm, in that case, hggdh / jamespage - are you able to extract the data from jenkins that smb needs?

 16:21:21 <hggdh> Daviey: I will do it -- need to lower memory allocation, and re-run i386 until we get the failure

 16:21:24 * jamespage looking at bug

 16:21:25 <smb> Maybe best thing would be to meet up at UDS and brain storm a bit

 16:21:35 <SpamapS> Shall we move on, and work this one out before next week's meeting?

 16:22:04 <Daviey> SpamapS: can you action?

 16:22:25 <SpamapS> #action smb, jamespage, hggdh to work on triaging bug 790712

 16:22:25 * meetingology smb, jamespage, hggdh to work on triaging bug 790712

 16:22:27 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 790712 in linux (Ubuntu Precise) "20110531 i386 server ISO: order 5 allocation failure during install" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/790712

 16:22:46 <SpamapS> NCommander: you here?

 16:22:55 <Daviey> smb: A general thanks for giving us a great Oneiric Kernel! :)

 16:23:16 <smb> Daviey, will relay that to the rest of the gang. :)

 16:23:23 <Daviey> groovy!

 16:23:34 <Daviey> I think NCommander is in a call

 16:23:37 <SpamapS> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community

 16:23:45 <SpamapS> we'll skip Ncommander for now then, will check back in

 16:23:55 <SpamapS> HELLO community!

 16:24:28 <Daviey> I suspect they are all busy.

 16:24:42 <SpamapS> indeed, some might say our community is the busiest. ;)

 16:24:52 <cprofitt> SpamapS: what do you need?

 16:24:55 <lynxman> it is indeed

 16:24:55 <bkerensa> =o

 16:25:02 <lynxman> bkerensa: oh hey :)

 16:25:12 <bkerensa> lynxman: Hi Marc

 16:25:33 <SpamapS> cprofitt: as always, users, bug reports, and suggestions are what we need. :)

 16:25:57 <SpamapS> #topic Open Discussion

 16:26:31 <cprofitt> SpamapS: /whois SpamapS

 16:26:41 <SpamapS> spying on me eh? ;)

 16:27:03 <cprofitt> just curious I am not seen the name before :)

 16:27:06 <Daviey> worst. spy. ever.

 16:27:21 <smoser> freenode-server: SpamapS is a superfly ubuntu super star

 16:27:25 <cprofitt> lol

 16:27:28 <SpamapS> Seriously tho, people, can we all take a bow for 11.10? Good, bad, ugly, whatever you think, its done.

 16:27:50 <smoser> luckily there are things to improve on. ;)

 16:27:54 <zul> and now back at the meat grinder :)

 16:28:13 <smb> does it blend?

 16:28:19 <cprofitt> 11.10 was very good.

 16:28:20 <hallyn> silly q

 16:28:22 <smoser> mom always said, if you dont have anything nice to say, dont say anything at all.  but i seem to have failed to take that advice.

 16:28:39 <SpamapS> smb: +1 for an automated testing framework to see if ubuntu server blends

 16:28:39 <zul> numerous times :)

 16:29:06 <Daviey> jamespage is all over that!

 16:29:12 <smb> Just need a blender big enough. :)

 16:29:14 <SpamapS> java blends

 16:29:26 <dr3mro> please make ubuntu 12.04 the best linux ever .. overlay scrollbars integration to all apps .. boot speed .. please we need it to be bugless

 16:29:41 <jamespage> well I will be once i have sorted out component mismatches :-(

 16:29:49 <SpamapS> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:29:52 <Daviey> unity-acsii is on the roadmap.

 16:29:59 <jamespage> \o/

 16:30:02 * smb runs

 16:30:04 <Ursinha> rofl

 16:30:10 <Daviey> ascii*

 16:30:23 <SpamapS> Tuesday 2011-10-25 16:00 UTC right here in #ubuntu-meeting

 16:30:33 <SpamapS> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
