{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** James Page to provide feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128
* V Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) =====

* matsubara reports that some of the server smoke tests are still failing. He'll investigate and report bugs as necessary.
* ''LINK:'': http://d-jenkins.ubuntu-ci:8080/view/Vivid/view/Smoke%20Testing/

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====
 
* smb reports that two bcache bugs still need feedback: bug <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1425288|1425288]]</nowiki> and bug <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1425128|1425128]]</nowiki>. coreycb left action in place for James Page to have a look at those.
* smb reports that the UE is sprinting next week, so there is a high chance I might miss next weeks irc meeting (and probably same for arges and sforshee )

===== Meeting Actions =====

* James to give feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Apr 14th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:00 <coreycb> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Apr  7 16:00:17 2015 UTC.  The chair is coreycb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <beisner> o/

 16:00 <rharper> o/

 16:00 <matsubara> o/

 16:00 <caribou> o/

 16:00 <smb> o/

 16:00 <strikov> o/

 16:00 <coreycb> Hello everone and welcome to the weekly ubuntu-server meeting

 16:00 <coreycb> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:01 <coreycb> there was one action item from last week - James Page to provide feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128

 16:01 <ubottu> bug 1425128 in linux (Ubuntu Trusty) "bcache causes task hang with 3.13 kernel" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1425128

 16:01 <ubottu> bug 1425288 in linux (Ubuntu) "kernel NULL pointer dereference during bcache cache_set_flush call" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1425288

 16:01 <smb> I do not recall any updates there

 16:01 <coreycb> ok smb, and jamespage is likely busy as he is sprinting

 16:01 <coreycb> I'll keep this one as an action

 16:02 <coreycb> #action James Page to provide feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128

 16:02 * meetingology James Page to provide feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128

 16:02 <smb> ok, though so will I next week (sprinting) ;)

 16:02 <coreycb> sigh

 16:02 <coreycb> #topic Vivid Development

 16:02 <coreycb> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule

 16:03 <coreycb> we're past final beta freeze  and the next milestone is kernel freeze on April 9th.  final freeze is April 16th.  release of 15.04 is April 23rd.

 16:04 <coreycb> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:04 <coreycb> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:05 <coreycb> no new bugs since last week

 16:05 <coreycb> dannf, anything new on 1427406?

 16:06 <coreycb> smoser, anything new on 1427275?

 16:07 <coreycb> juju team is actively working on 1409639

 16:08 <coreycb> and looks like utlemming is actively working on 1409639

 16:09 <coreycb> ok let's move on

 16:09 <coreycb> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:09 <coreycb> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html

 16:10 <coreycb> this should be a bit greener at this point in the cycle so please update your progress

 16:10 <coreycb> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server

 16:11 <coreycb> and we should likely start deferring things soon

 16:11 <coreycb> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:11 <caribou> coreycb: nothing particular this week, thanks

 16:11 <coreycb> thanks caribou

 16:12 <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)

 16:12 <matsubara> Nothing new to report. Most of the smoke tests are still failing and I'm not doing a very good job at babysitting them

 16:13 <coreycb> matsubara, ok, thanks and good luck with those

 16:13 <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:13 <smb> Nothing specific this week. Just repeating as a reminder that UE is sprinting next week, so there is a high chance I might miss next weeks irc meeting (and probably same for arges and sforshee )

 16:13 <coreycb> smb, ok thanks for the update

 16:14 <coreycb> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:14 <coreycb> any events going on?  I know there are a few sprints going on.

 16:15 <coreycb> #topic Open Discussion

 16:15 <coreycb> does anyone have anything else they'd like to cover?

 16:15 <coreycb> thanks everyone for attending

 16:15 <coreycb> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:16 <beisner> thx coreycb

 16:16 <caribou> thanks coreycb

 16:16 <dannf> coreycb: i provided a patch

 16:16 <coreycb> Tues April 14th 16:00 UTC

 16:16 <dannf> coreycb: in that bug

 16:16 <coreycb> dannf, ah ok

 16:16 <dannf> coreycb: still blocked on the mariadb side

 16:17 <dannf> coreycb: but as for mysql, i'm considering it done from my pov unless someone asks for something

 16:18 <coreycb> dannf, ok do you need anything from the server team?

 16:18 <dannf> coreycb: review/upload i guess :)

 16:19 <dannf> and testing on non-arm64, if you have tests to run

 16:19 <coreycb> rbasak, can you handle that?

 16:20 <dannf> (and happy to help where i can, not trying to throw it over the wall... completely) :)

 16:20 <coreycb> dannf, I'll add an action for rbasak since he had asked for a patch in that bug

 16:21 <rbasak> o/

 16:21 <rbasak> dannf: I thought the patch wasn't ready to upload to Ubuntu yet?

 16:21 <rbasak> If so, I don't feel I have any action I can take here.

 16:22 <rbasak> I'd prefer to see the patch adopted upstream - then we can certainly update or cherry-pick it.

 16:22 <dannf> rbasak: i'd like upstream to ack it, but they haven't. it's definitely *better* on arm64 than the current version, but i don't have regression tests for other archs

 16:23 <rbasak> We can't risk regression on other archs

 16:23 <strikov> dannf: do you mean the whole series of patches or just the last one which adds aarch64 to power-related ifdefs?

 16:23 <dannf> strikov: entire series

 16:24 <dannf> rbasak: right - and is there a way we can regression test other archs in house?

 16:24 <rbasak> Beyond the standard test suite? Not that I'm aware of.

 16:24 <rbasak> But this kind of fix strikes me as the type that standard regression tests won't catch.

 16:26 <rbasak> I guess what I'm expecting is someone to go deep and verify, in whatever way necessary, to a reasonable level that there won't be a regression on another arch.

 16:26 <coreycb> thanks for the discussion guys.  I"m going to end the meeting.  I assume you can continue the discussion offline if needed.

 16:26 <rbasak> OK, that's fair. Thanks coreycb.

 16:26 <coreycb> #endmeeting
</pre>
