{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=06&day=09&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jun  9th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Felix Geyer (debfx) provided debdiffs for precise-trusty for mod-wsgi (LP: #1322338). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job!
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** short week
** weekly role: community
** ofono profiles
** !AppArmor phablet kernel testing
** pending updates
** process sprint outcomes
** Ubuntu Online Summit attendence
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** attend UOS
** apparmor upload for utopic
** sbeattie
** amd64 PIE
*** current status: test compiler that bootstraps and does the right for common cases
*** tracking down testsuite failures
*** putting together ppa for wider benchmarking
** apparmor patch review
** tyhicks
** prioritize kdbus work item. Move to others as time allows
** jjohansen
** UOS
** bug triage
** touch kernel pull (needs new parser)
** sarnold
** weekly role: triage
** UOS
** click audits
** django QRT as have time
** chrisccoulson
** mozilla updates
** fixing Bug:1312082 - Stop using deprecated compositing paths). Required for media-hub work
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-06-09-16.35.html
