{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Meeting Actions
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Maverick development (jib)
* RC release status (ttx)
* The road to 10.10.10 release (ttx)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
* Agree on next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====
* [ACTION] SpamapS to chase drizzle in maverick decide between "broken" and "removed" with slight possibility of "beta"
* [ACTION] jiboumans to send an email to ubuntu-server@ and/or blog post for call for ideas
* [ACTION] (carryover) mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
* SpamapS will continue to follow up on drizzle in maverick.

===== Maverick development (jib) =====
* RC is Thursday the 30th, with release on Sunday October 10.
* Please add ideas for Natty development to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/NattyIdeaPool]]</nowiki>.  That will serve as input for UDS Sessions.

===== RC release status (ttx) =====
* Only critical issue at that time was Eucalyptus upgrade

===== The road to 10.10.10 release (ttx) =====
* ISO testing is in progress (subsequently finished with all tests run and on time)
* Daily triage is particularly important right now.  Please take care to find high impact issues.
* EC2 Images for RC were waiting on <nowiki>[[Bug:649833]]</nowiki>
* Daviey and Mathaiz will cover general RC release issues, with smoser handling UEC images

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
* hggdh sent a mail to ubuntu-devel proposing a change on the usage of 'regression-*' tags.  Comments are appreciated.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====
* user-data corruption bug bug is fixed
* <nowiki>[[Bug:574910]]</nowiki> is expected to move into SRU this week
* there will be a 0 day kernel update that the kernel team is queuing fixes for

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====
* no discussion

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0) =====
* This week, kim0 is collecting feedback from "newcomer" Ubuntu server ocmmunity.  The goal being to understand if we're doing a good job accepting new community members, availing helpful data, things to work on, and guidance along the path.
* kim0 has recieved pings from a dozen people who would like to contribute
* cloud portal (http://cloud.ubuntu.com) is expected to be released soon.
* To see the cloud portal now, add "217.139.24.3 kimos.com" to /etc/hosts and visit kimos.com.

===== Open Discussion =====
* Bug:582963 in apache2 was discussed some, it is being deferred to Natty.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====
Next meeting will be on Tuesday, October 5th at 18:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:04] <jiboumans> smoser: #startmeeting
[19:04] <smoser> #startmeeting
[19:04] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:04. The chair is smoser.
[19:04] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:04] <ttx> and #topic
[19:05] <smoser> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:05] <ttx> hmm, I mean [TOPIC] and [ACTION]
[19:05] <ttx> sorry
[19:05] <smoser> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:05] <smoser>  * jib to check with kim0 if he can attend meetings regularly ro not
[19:06] <kim0> I can
[19:06] <jiboumans> smoser: that was done already last meeting though :)
[19:06] <jiboumans> and tada, there he is!
[19:06] <kim0> lol
[19:06] <smoser> pfft
[19:06] <smoser>  * ttx to add link to server-mrs tag search from the releasestatus wiki page
[19:06] <ttx> done
[19:06] <smoser>  * SpamapS to look at the state of drizzle in maverick - if it build this week ScottK to accept FFe
[19:07] <smoser> SpamapS, ^
[19:07] <SpamapS> sorry
[19:07] <SpamapS> still not great
[19:07] <SpamapS> It builds
[19:07] <SpamapS> and tests ok
[19:08] <SpamapS> but there are copyright ambiguities that have prevented it from passing ftp master approval in sid
[19:08] <SpamapS> I THINK we have addressed them all now
[19:08] <SpamapS> But, the state is currently "maybe".
[19:08] <smoser> so we're still hoping for something in maverick ? i would have thought we were passed any reasonable freeze date.
[19:09] <SpamapS> Given that it is completely broken for i386, and a VERY old build, ScottK's willing to sponsor the exception as long as it hits debian first.
[19:09] <ttx> smoser: it's in universe
[19:09] <ttx> smoser: so it doesn't affect any release deliverable
[19:10] <Daviey> SpamapS, I thought he said that deal was only good for last week?
[19:10] <smoser> ah. ok.
[19:10] <ttx> smoser: but still.
[19:10] <SpamapS> Daviey: indeed, for "1 week".. so today is the end of that.
[19:10] <Daviey> lol
[19:10] <SpamapS> We're going to keep pushing and get it into sid.
[19:11] <smoser> ok. i think this is marked as "not going to happen" for maverick
[19:11] <mathiaz> SpamapS: you can probably get it accepted until the archive is also frozen for universe
[19:11] <SpamapS> If that takes 3 more days, then it will probably have to be broken in maverick. :-/
[19:11] <mathiaz> SpamapS: should be it removed instead?
[19:11] <SpamapS> mathiaz: probably. Its an alpha version now.. the beta, which is releasing pretty much as we speak, is quite different.
[19:12] <SpamapS> and guarantees on disk and API compatibility with future releases
[19:12] <SpamapS> first time drizzle has ever done that.
[19:13] <ttx> SpamapS: do your best. I can live with or without it
[19:13] <SpamapS> anyway, state of the action item is that the status in maverick is still broken, and that we are pushing quite hard to get it done and into maverick before the archive is frozen.
[19:13] <SpamapS> Its more important to drizzle than it is to us IMO.
[19:13] <smoser> [ACTION] SpamapS to chase drizzle in maverick decide between "broken" and "removed" with slight possibility of "beta"
[19:13] <MootBot> ACTION received:  SpamapS to chase drizzle in maverick decide between "broken" and "removed" with slight possibility of "beta"
[19:13] <smoser> reasonable ^ ?
[19:13] <SpamapS> quite, thanks.
[19:13] <smoser> moving on
[19:13] <smoser>  * jiboumans to send an email to ubuntu-server@ and/or blog post for call for ideas
[19:14] <jiboumans> i assumed we had that as part of the minutes actually
[19:14] <jiboumans> but thinking about it, a seperate call is probably a good idea
[19:14] <jiboumans> so, not done, but will do - carry over
[19:14] <smoser> [ACTION] jiboumans to send an email to ubuntu-server@ and/or blog post for call for ideas
[19:14] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jiboumans to send an email to ubuntu-server@ and/or blog post for call for ideas
[19:14] <smoser>  * mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
[19:14] <smoser> [
[19:15] <mathiaz> smoser: not done - carry over
[19:15] <smoser> [ACTION] (carryover) mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
[19:15] <MootBot> ACTION received:  (carryover) mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
[19:15] <smoser> ok. moving on.
[19:15] <smoser> [TOPIC] Maverick development (jib)
[19:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development (jib)
[19:15] <jiboumans> With RC this Thursday, the main focus is the nail any critical bugs; daily triage is *essential* at this point (remember to update your work items!). At RC time, ISO testing, ISO testing and maybe some more ISO testing :) It's time to shake out the last snags so we can ship a release we can be really proud of. For those not on the release path, Friday and onwards will allow you to focus on Natty proposals if there are no critical bugs; the idea
[19:15] <jiboumans> pool is already filling up nicely and the time to put some meat in those ideas is next week.
[19:16] <jiboumans> our goal is to have a solid idea list by friday for Natty, and some real meat to those ideas by next friday
[19:16] <jiboumans> that will serve as the input for UDS sessions
[19:16] <jiboumans> as mentioned, I'll mail this out in a post to the mailing list as well
[19:16] <smoser> Where do list items go ?
[19:17] <jiboumans> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/NattyIdeaPool # add your ideas here
[19:17] <jiboumans> and thanks to all who already contributed
[19:17] <smoser> gracias.
[19:17] <SpamapS> I know jorge put out an email/video on what to do.. but I haven't really had any time to devote to it. We need to have all of our ideas in the list by Friday?
[19:17] <ttx> I sorted it, somehow
[19:17] <SpamapS> oh thats something different?
[19:17] <ttx> SpamapS: the list is more for brainstorming/awareness
[19:17] <jiboumans> spamaps: this is the idea pool and just that - thinks worth exploring
[19:18] <jiboumans> the exploration to happen next week
[19:18] <SpamapS> 10-4
[19:18] <jiboumans> that's it for Maverick I think, and also with Natty ramp up
[19:18] <smoser> [TOPIC] RC release status (ttx)
[19:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  RC release status (ttx)
[19:19] <ttx> I think jiboumans summed it well... No more milestoned bugs
[19:19] <ttx> On high/critical maverick bug, a placeholder about eucalyptus upgrade issues
[19:19] <Daviey> (fix being tested)
[19:19] <ttx> ack
[19:19] <smoser> [TOPIC] The road to 10.10.10 release (ttx)
[19:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  The road to 10.10.10 release (ttx)
[19:19] <ttx> So, the current step is ISO testing
[19:19] <ttx> we have candidates up
[19:20] <ttx> That can start now
[19:20] <ttx> Daily triage is particularly important right now... since we are at that tiny window where we can still consider fixing a high-impact issue that comes up
[19:20] <ttx> so please have it covered, and let me know if you catch something
[19:21] <smoser> ec2 image candidates will arrive later today.  We're waiting on a fix for 649833
[19:21] <smoser> bug 649833
[19:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 649833 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "uec images motd suggests tasksel, but tasksel not installed" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/649833
[19:21] <ttx> The closer we get to release... the less likely we are to introduce a fix
[19:21] <ttx> At that point I'd say only high bugs are worthy of a fix... though low-impact med/low can make it as well
[19:21] <ttx> I advise that everyone goes through peer review before submitting to the release team
[19:22] <ttx> As a reminder, I'm at a conference Thursday and Friday
[19:22] <ttx> and traveling for a few hours on Wednesday
[19:22] <ttx> Daviey and mathiaz will cover for release stuff
[19:22] <Daviey> ack
[19:22] <ttx> and smoser will cover for cloud images release stuff
[19:22] <smoser> moving on ?
[19:23] <ttx> i'll be in London for the release sprint next week, from Wed to sunday.
[19:23] <ttx> (if need be)
[19:23] <ttx> the goal is to have the server ISO ready to ship by Friday, so that nobody has to stay up for the weekend
[19:23] <ttx> EOF
[19:23] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:23] <hggdh> hi
[19:23] <ttx> questions > #ubuntu-server, I guess
[19:24] <hggdh> The only news is euca testing keeps on
[19:24] <hggdh> oh
[19:24] <hggdh> one thing: we (QA) just sent an email to -dev proposing a change on the usage of the 'regression-*' tags
[19:24] <hggdh> comments are appreciated
[19:25] <Daviey> hggdh, I possibly won't need you to test lucid -> maverick before approaching the release team.  I've done 2 upgrades here.. so i feel comfortable with pushing it for release.  Once it's in the archive (hopefully), normal testing then is appreciated :)
[19:25] <smoser> woohoo Daviey !
[19:25] <hggdh> Daviey: roj. Since I am already on Lucid, I will wait for it to hit the archives, and will do an upgrade, just in case
[19:26] <ttx> Daviey: be happy until next test !
[19:26] <Daviey> lol
[19:26] <smoser> moving on.
[19:26] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:27] <smoser> jjohansen, ^
[19:27] <smoser>  * bug 613083 is fixed in my testing (both in maverick and in lucid tests for the 20100923 refresh of 10.04)
[19:27] <ubottu> Bug 613083 on http://launchpad.net/bugs/613083 is private
[19:28] <smoser> (that bug was regarding user data being corrupted)
[19:28] <ttx> is it released, or will be released as a 0-day SRU ?
[19:29] <smoser> its fixed (on amazons side)
[19:29] <smoser> no changes required, it works fine now.
[19:29] <smoser> Other kernel bugs of interest:
[19:30] <smoser>  * bug 613273 has been popping up in maverick instances occasionally.
[19:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 613273 in linux (Ubuntu) "kernel panic on ec2 in system_call_fastpath" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/613273
[19:30] <smoser>  * bug 634487 is still present, we're getting some help from amazon on that, but have not made any real progress, jjohansen should be looking at it some also.
[19:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 634487 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "t1.micro instance hangs when installing sun java" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/634487
[19:31] <smoser> jjohansen, apparently is not here, so i will stop talking to myself.
[19:31] <smoser> Those are the maverick bugs related to uec images.
[19:31] <jjohansen> I'm here the lag is just bad
[19:31] <smoser> :)
[19:32] <jjohansen> I have multiple conversations running atm
[19:32] <smoser> in SRU news, our metabug friend bug 574910 is expected to move into -proposed this week.
[19:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574910 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "High load averages on Lucid while idling" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574910
[19:33] <ttx> smoser: maybe mark the bug fixed if there is nothing else to do
[19:33] <smoser> i was just doing that, ttx.
[19:33]  * SpamapS always imagines a GIANT beetle stomping on the city when he hears the term "metabug"
[19:33] <ttx> SpamapS: that's about a right description
[19:35] <smoser> jjohansen, can you confirm that out side of kitten killers we're basically frozen for kernel release.
[19:35] <jjohansen> yes
[19:35] <jjohansen> there will be a 0 day kernel update that we are queuing fixes for
[19:35] <smoser> the bugs above will have to be addressed in -updates.  The good part of it is, that they *can* be addressed in updates, and with an 'apt-get dist-upgrade'.
[19:35] <smoser> woowhoo for pv-grub.
[19:36] <jiboumans> woohoo indeed
[19:36] <jiboumans> smoser++ jjohansen++
[19:36] <smoser> i'm done here. jjohansen anything else?
[19:36] <kim0> so ec2 users can now upgrade their kernels ? :)
[19:36] <smoser> kim0, yes.
[19:36] <kim0> yaay
[19:36] <Daviey> \o/
[19:36] <jjohansen> if they use ebs
[19:36] <Daviey> awesome
[19:36] <ttx> kim0: that's one of the biggest features in maverick :)
[19:36] <smoser> they could in lucid with ebs.
[19:36] <kim0> indeed
[19:37] <smoser> on maverick, instance store and ebs just require reboot
[19:37] <smoser> something to chase at some point is to see if we can't get ksplice to support -virtual kernel
[19:37] <smoser> which would then get us security patches without even reboot on ec2 or uec
[19:37] <smoser> anyway.
[19:38] <zul> thats a big if
[19:38]  * SpamapS grabs the reigns on smoser's pony..  WHOA THERE
[19:38] <smoser> (one really nice affect of us using -virtual on ec2 is that the above is more likely)
[19:38] <smoser> anyway
[19:38] <smoser> narwhals, narwhals
[19:38] <smoser> moving on
[19:38] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:39] <smoser> sommer, ^
[19:39] <sommer> nothing new from me
[19:40] <sommer> was there questions from anyone?
[19:40] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:40] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:41] <kim0> hey folks
[19:41] <kim0> This week we're collecting feedback this week from "newcomer" Ubuntu server community
[19:41] <kim0> The goal being to understand if we're doing a good job accepting new community members, availing helpful data, things to work on, and guidance along the path
[19:41] <kim0> I actually received pings from a dozen people who want to contribute, which is awesome, I hope to follow up with them after we're done with this survey thing this week
[19:41] <kim0> Also, another thing, I would like to start collecting feedback on the next version of the cloud portal. If anyone has ideas on what should go there during 11.04 cycle please throw me a few lines
[19:42] <kim0> that should generally be it for me
[19:42] <mathiaz> kim0: where is the cloud portal now?
[19:42] <kim0> mathiaz: at IS for deploy
[19:42] <kim0> stuck mostly
[19:42] <kim0> :)
[19:42] <smoser> it will grace us with its presence at cloud.ubuntu.com ?
[19:42] <kim0> I hope to have it up around 10.10
[19:42] <kim0> smoser: that's the plan
[19:42]  * mathiaz thinks it may hard to provide feedback on something that isn't accessible yet
[19:43] <smoser> mathiaz, you need to think outside the box man
[19:43] <kim0> :)
[19:43] <kim0> sorry for that .. should be up soon though
[19:43] <smoser> kim0, table showing latest AMIs
[19:43] <kim0> smoser: yes there now
[19:43] <smoser> awesome.
[19:43] <Daviey> \o/
[19:44] <smoser> ok. if no one has anything else for kim0 then we're going on.
[19:44] <smoser> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:44] <zul> i like turtles
[19:44] <SpamapS> me too
[19:44] <smoser>  * narwhals, narwhals
[19:45] <RoAkSoAx> lol
[19:45] <SpamapS> Did anybody have a chance to look at the solution I proposed for the SSL passphrase dialog in plymouth?
[19:45] <Daviey> i thought ttx did?
[19:45] <smoser> SpamapS, link ?
[19:45] <zul> ttx did
[19:45] <SpamapS> bug 582963
[19:45] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 582963 in apache2 (Ubuntu Maverick) "SSL pass phrase dialog can't read input" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/582963
[19:45] <zul> and defered it to natty
[19:45] <ttx> SpamapS: I looked at it from an impact perspective -- didn't test it
[19:45] <SpamapS> yeah, Just wondering if anybody cared to comment. ;)
[19:46] <ttx> SpamapS: I commented :P
[19:46] <SpamapS> ttx: oh you always have SOMETHING to say don't you? ;)
[19:46] <ttx> SpamapS: yes
[19:47] <kim0> mathiaz: smoser append "217.139.24.3 kimos.com" to /etc/hosts and visit kimos.com my dev box,
[19:47] <RoAkSoAx> i have a tropical depression coming tomorrow (hopefully it wont turn into a hurricane) :(
[19:48] <ttx> don't tell me next UDS is in Florida
[19:48] <smoser> Walt will protect us.
[19:48] <Daviey> That is a mickey mouse idea smoser
[19:48] <ttx> smoser: not sure, he never put a narwhal in his movies
[19:48] <SpamapS> ttx: its ok, Hurricane season is over 1 week before UDS
[19:48] <ttx> maybe he just hates them.
[19:49] <smoser> ok.
[19:49] <ttx> anyway, Florida looks less dangerous than Texas
[19:49] <smoser> i'm calling it
[19:49] <RoAkSoAx> i'm in a worse danger area than orlando though lol, so Orlando should be good for UDS, dont get scared ttx :P
[19:50] <Daviey> smoser, next meeting?
[19:50] <smoser> oops
[19:50] <jiboumans> smoser: when done, #endmeeting
[19:50] <Daviey> rinse and repeat
[19:50] <SpamapS> announce next time
[19:50] <SpamapS> then end
[19:50] <SpamapS> then \o/
[19:50] <smoser> next meeting:
[19:50] <smoser> Tuesday 2010-10-05 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:51] <smoser> #endmeeting
[19:51] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:51.
[19:51] <ttx> smoser: many thanks for covering up
[19:51] <Daviey> yeah... usually not wearing clothes is not cool.
[19:51] <JFo> twitch*
[19:51] <smoser> if its ok for mickey its ok for me
[19:51] <hggdh> oh, TMI, TMI...
[19:52] <RoAkSoAx> mickey is evil
[19:52] <RoAkSoAx> lol
[19:52] <smoser> now. everyone go to : http://www.weebls-stuff.com/songs/Narwhals/
</pre>
