{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: IRC team, 25 Aug at 18:02 &mdash; 18:38 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-08-25-18.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review last meetings action items ====
The discussion about "Review last meetings action items" started at 18:06.

==== Open items in the IRCC tracker ====
The discussion about "Open items in the IRCC tracker" started at 18:09.

==== Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council ====
The discussion about "Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council" started at 18:10.

==== Membership applications ====
The discussion about "Membership applications" started at 18:10.

==== Any Other Business ====
The discussion about "Any Other Business" started at 18:10.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/AppealProcess 
** ''ACTION:'' ircc to discuss and clarify what constitutes a formal complaint
** ''ACTION:'' AlanBell to make a list of cloaks to remove as per https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Cloaks
** ''LINK:'' http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-08-01-17.00.log.html#l-81 

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items ===

* ircc to discuss and clarify what constitutes a formal complaint
* AlanBell to make a list of cloaks to remove as per https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Cloaks

=== Action items, by person ===

* AlanBell
** AlanBell to make a list of cloaks to remove as per https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Cloaks

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (40)
* IdleOne (18)
* Tm_T (6)
* meetingology (5)
* bazhang (4)
* Flannel (3)
* ikonia (2)
* DJones (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:02 <AlanBell> #startmeeting IRC team

 18:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Aug 25 18:02:23 2013 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 18:02 <meetingology> 

 18:02 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:02 <AlanBell> hi, who is here for the IRC team meeting?

 18:03 <Flannel> o/

 18:03 <ikonia> I'm certainly watching

 18:04 <AlanBell> Pici: Tm_T: funkyHat: o/

 18:06 <Tm_T> hi

 18:06 <Tm_T> only partially available, sorry

 18:06 <AlanBell> ok

 18:06 <AlanBell> again, not a heap of stuff on the agenda

 18:06 <AlanBell> #topic Review last meetings action items

 18:07 <IdleOne> o/

 18:08 <AlanBell> last meeting was https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/IRCC/20130630 and no actions recorded

 18:09 <AlanBell> but I never got round to doing a list of things the bots say

 18:09 <AlanBell> anyhow, lets move on and come back to new actions because I can think of a few things we need to do

 18:09 <AlanBell> #topic Open items in the IRCC tracker

 18:10 <AlanBell> none in the tracker, there have been no recent formal appeals

 18:10 <AlanBell> #topic Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council

 18:10 <AlanBell> no new bugs filed

 18:10 <AlanBell> #topic Membership applications

 18:10 <AlanBell> we have no new membership applications

 18:10 <AlanBell> #topic Any Other Business

 18:10 <AlanBell> gosh that was quick :)

 18:10 <bazhang> not m4v ?

 18:11 <IdleOne> m4v was finnaly approved

 18:11 <AlanBell> m4v is a member now, was approved a few months ago

 18:11 <bazhang> alright

 18:11 <IdleOne> little while ago

 18:11 <AlanBell> cloak and everything :)

 18:11 <IdleOne> there have been no recent formal appeals ?

 18:11 <AlanBell> indeed, there have not

 18:11 <IdleOne> This confuses me

 18:11 <IdleOne> what exactly constitutes a formal appeal?

 18:12 <AlanBell> someone sending us an email with the details of what they want to appeal about

 18:13 <IdleOne> I see

 18:13 <IdleOne> So joining the council channel and making a complaint does not count?

 18:13 <AlanBell> there have been some discussions with users where we have advised them of how to appeal and we let them talk if they want to say their piece

 18:14 <AlanBell> anyone can pop in to the #ubuntu-irc-council for a chat at any time, but an appeal is by email

 18:15 <Tm_T> AlanBell: does appeal process say that?

 18:15 <IdleOne> it should if not

 18:15 <ikonia> if you follow the process it says you should email the council on the list after discussing it with the ops

 18:16 <IdleOne> I haven't read it recently but I recall it saying they can also join the ircc channel. It should be made clear if not

 18:16 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/AppealProcess

 18:17 <AlanBell> there is a bit of an OR in there

 18:17 <IdleOne> there is an either or

 18:17 <IdleOne> I suggest it be cleared up

 18:18 <DJones> On the basis that the purpose of #ubuntu-irc-council has never been explained to me since I was accepted as an op in #ubuntu, what is its purpose? is it a a private channel with no idling or something that #ubuntu* ops should be aware of?

 18:18 <AlanBell> so yes, if people pop in to the channel we do try and sort out what the problem is, but I was generally counting emails as formal appeals

 18:19 <AlanBell> the channel is very rarely used, it is handy if we want to discuss something with someone so that all the council can see discussions rather than having private messages with us as individuals

 18:20 <IdleOne> I am fine with making it email if you want this to be a formal complaint OR join the channel if you want to alert the council to something without it being a huge deal type thing

 18:23 <AlanBell> yeah, that might be good to clarify in the documentation

 18:25 <IdleOne> AlanBell: only because some of us were under the impression there had been a formal complaint made against some of the ops.

 18:25 <IdleOne> least that is what we were told.

 18:26 <IdleOne> Good to know we can continue to abuse our powers without consequence :)

 18:26 <IdleOne> that was a joke, just in case nobody got it.

 18:26 <AlanBell> /kick IdleOne

 18:28 <Tm_T> IdleOne: this is serious business, we don't understand humout

 18:28 <Tm_T> r

 18:29 <bazhang> hummus is welcome though

 18:29 <AlanBell> hmm, something weird going on with my connection :(

 18:29 <IdleOne> Tm_T: plz2email for formal complaint. kthx

 18:29 <bazhang> falafel not included

 18:29 <Tm_T> done

 18:31 <AlanBell> ok, so from that

 18:31 <AlanBell> #action ircc to discuss and clarify what constitutes a formal complaint

 18:31 * meetingology ircc to discuss and clarify what constitutes a formal complaint

 18:32 <AlanBell> is there any other other business?

 18:32 <Flannel> AlanBell: You said you had things earlier (at :09)

 18:33 <AlanBell> yup, just we need to do a round of cloak audits for people who are expired or whatever

 18:34 <Flannel> Well, that's not very exciting at all.  What are we paying you for?

 18:35 <AlanBell> #action AlanBell to make a list of cloaks to remove as per https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Cloaks

 18:35 * meetingology AlanBell to make a list of cloaks to remove as per https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Cloaks

 18:36 <AlanBell> and the other thing to mention is that we had a catchup meeting with the CC about a month ago, I will try and find the logs to link

 18:37 <AlanBell> http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-08-01-17.00.log.html#l-81

 18:37 <AlanBell> ok, anything else to add?

 18:38 <AlanBell> lets wrap it up there then

 18:38 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
