{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Raring Development
** Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===
===== Meeting Actions =====
* smoser, daviey, james_page to review blueprints

===== Raring Development =====
* <nowiki>[[http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html|Release Bugs]]</nowiki> ====
* <nowiki>[[http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server|Release Tracking Bug Tasks]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html|Blueprints]]</nowiki>

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
* SpamapS will attend <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/scalela/|ScaleLA]]</nowiki>
* Smoser, utlemming, and others will be at <nowiki>[[http://reinvent.awsevents.com/|AWS re:invent]]</nowiki>

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
* smb working on <nowiki>[[BugId:1023755]]</nowiki>.
* smb requested test of re-work of 10.04 EC2/xen kernel, debs at http://people.canonical.com/~smb/lucid-ec2-ng

===== Open Discussion =====
* debian cloud mailing list started
** <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Cloud|wiki]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.debian.org/debian-cloud/|debian-cloud]]</nowiki> mailing list
* cloud images for raring having some issues (BugID:1078926)
===== Announce next meeting date and time =====
* next meeting: Tuesday 2012-11-20 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:20] <smoser> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:20] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov 13 16:20:39 2012 UTC.  The chair is smoser. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:20] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:20] <smoser> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:21] <smoser> no action items carried over
[16:21] <smoser> #topic Raring Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Raring Development
[16:21] <smoser> Daviey, did you want to talk some here?
[16:21] <smoser> blueprints should be just about settled.
[16:21] <Daviey> smoser: I think you can cover it :)
[16:22] <smoser> i'll take an action to review them today or tomorrow and bother anyone whose are not in good state.
[16:22] <Daviey> smoser: You, jamespage and myself will be reviewing blueprints this week, right?
[16:22] <smoser> #action smoser, jamespage, daviey review blueprints
[16:22] <meetingology> ACTION: smoser, jamespage, daviey review blueprints
[16:22] <jamespage> Daviey, smoser: lets schedule some time todo that then
[16:22] <smoser> after meeting, jamespage
[16:22] <smoser> other thing here is that  would like to get "milestones" in place.
[16:23] <Daviey> smoser: Monthly ?
[16:23] <smoser> we dont really have milestones (alpha1, alpha2...) but i thinkw e want to still target blueprints for "general finished" at given points in the cycle.
[16:24] <smoser> ah. the Monthly things are in now.
[16:24] <smoser> coo.
[16:24] <smoser> ie, you can now target bugs to "ubuntu-13.04-month-1"
[16:25] <smoser> (also 'alpha-X' which is strange)
[16:25] <smoser> anyway.
[16:25] <smoser> anyone have anything else for this ?
[16:25] <smoser> o. moving on
[16:26] <smoser> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:26] <Daviey> None planned AFAIK?
[16:26] <smoser> utlemming and I will be at re:invent which is the week after next.
[16:26] <smoser> dr mimms and SpamapS also i think.
[16:27] <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:27] <smoser> hggdh is not present...
[16:27] <SpamapS> indeed
[16:27] <smoser> anyone have QA like topics for disucssion ?
[16:27] <SpamapS> oh sorry I forgot to pipe up in events
[16:27] <SpamapS> I'll also be talking at ScaleLA next Tuesday
[16:27] <SpamapS> http://www.meetup.com/scalela/
[16:28] <smoser> cool.
[16:28] <Daviey> Oo
[16:28] <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:28] <smb> Working on on bug 1023755. Depending on io scheduler (cfq/deadline) I think I got one half down to somewhere between v3.3-rc7 and v3.3 (bug messed up the bisect), the other half may be related to cfq and seemed to exist in Quantal stiil. Beside that I am working on an update to Xen Raring to cover the things we said we would do at UDS.
[16:28] <smb> ..
[16:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1023755 in linux (Ubuntu) "Precise kernel locks up while dd to /dev/mapper files > 1Gb (was: Unable to delete volume)" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1023755
[16:28] <smoser> smb is all over it.
[16:29] <smoser> smb, also... it seemed like you had some kernel changes in the pike for 10.04
[16:30] <smb> smoser, Oh yeah that. Sort of dump the special ec2 patches and just use the same codebase as for the generic kernels
[16:30] <smoser> http://people.canonical.com/~smb/lucid-ec2-ng
[16:30] <smb> Just slightly different options and a few other patches
[16:30] <smoser> if anyone wants to give that stuff a spin on EC2 (generic xen couldn't hurt i dont think), that'd be great
[16:31] <smoser> thanks smb.
[16:31] <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:31] <rbasak> Nothing new to report. Any questions for me?
[16:31] <smoser> rbasak, i've just uploaded to precise-proposed a cloud-init update that addresses 'ports.ubuntu.com' for arm
[16:31] <smoser> SpamapS, ... your help would be appreciated on that review.
[16:31] <rbasak> Awesome. Thanks!
[16:32] <smoser> anything else related to the arm ?
[16:32] <smoser> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Open Discussion
[16:32] <smoser> our cloud iamges are currently experiencing issues for raring
[16:32] <smoser> utlemming did some bisection yesterday.
[16:32] <smoser> there were two issues:
[16:33] <smoser> a.) we weren't finding the Ec2 Datasource on ec2 or openstack
[16:33] <smoser> b.) we appear to "lose" some output that shoudl hit the console, making debugging harder. ie, cloud-init's 'log.warn' should get to/dev/console, but the messages were not getting there.
=== mmrazik|otp is now known as mmrazik
[16:34] <smoser> c.) cloud-init in raring == cloud-init in quantal at the moment
[16:34] <smoser> so..
[16:34] <smoser> that will be fun.
[16:34] <smoser> anyone else open discussion , or solutions to my problems ?
[16:34] <zul> also we have an SRU for nova and quantum on quantal that seems to be stuck or not moving
[16:35] <zul> (ie: uploaded but not processed)
[16:35] <zul> smoser: i dont have a solution to your problem ;)
[16:35] <smoser> ah. we should also welcome mikal, but since he lives in the far distant future, he is not here.
[16:36] <smoser> mikal will be working on openstack for us. hooray.
[16:36] <SpamapS> Hey has anyone been following debian's cloud image efforts?
=== Tonio_ is now known as Tonio_aw
[16:37] <smoser> i'm on ec2debian mailing list
[16:37] <smoser> but thats about it. and that is slow moving.
[16:37] <smoser> was there something specifically you were interested in SpamapS  ?
[16:38] <SpamapS> its not ec2debian, there's a debian-cloud now
[16:38] <SpamapS> They're pushing images into Azure as well as EC2
[16:38] <SpamapS> smoser: I'm just wondering if people have thoughts on how we might collaborate there.
[16:39] <xnox> there was call for help maintaining cloud-init in/for debian images.
[16:39] <SpamapS> As Debian users move onto the cloud, they'll likely bring new ideas that we can incorporate into Ubuntu's cloud images.
[16:39] <utlemming> SpamapS: do you have a link?
[16:39] <smoser> http://lists.debian.org/debian-cloud/2012/11/threads.html
[16:39]  * smoser will join list.
[16:39] <xnox> some of this stuff was on debian-private though (the azure bits)
[16:39] <SpamapS> https://lists.debian.org/debian-cloud/
[16:39] <smoser> and respond to call for cloud-init.
[16:40] <SpamapS> xnox: Azure is being discussed on debian-cloud tho
[16:40] <SpamapS> https://lists.debian.org/debian-cloud/2012/11/msg00039.html
[16:40] <xnox> SpamapS: now it is =) good.
[16:40] <SpamapS> xnox: <phew> thought I was being a real oaf there for a second.
[16:41] <utlemming> SpamapS: for Azure, I probably need to spend some time with them, since I package their agent.
[16:41]  * xnox was only following debian-private.
[16:42] <SpamapS> utlemming: yeah, it might be good to not duplicate that effort. :)
[16:43] <SpamapS> Oh there's also a #debian-cloud on OFTC
[16:44] <smoser> thanks SpamapS
[16:44] <smoser> anyone have anythign else ?
[16:46] <smoser> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:46] <Daviey> Same time, or an hour later?
[16:46] <zul> same time
[16:46] <smoser> this meeting has been 16:00 UTC for probably 2 years.
[16:47] <smoser> but that isn't necessarily a reason that US/Pacific people should have to be online at 8:00 AM
[16:47] <SpamapS> yeah, sucks for west coast US but meh
[16:48] <smoser> ok. failing any other arguments...
[16:48] <Daviey> smoser: and for the alst 2 years, west-coasters have complained, and sucked at turning up :)
[16:48] <SpamapS> nobody on the west coast of the US uses Ubuntu server
=== Tonio_aw is now known as Tonio_
[16:48] <smoser> ok.
[16:48] <SpamapS> well I mean except *all of silicon valley*, but who cares about those nerds?
[16:48] <smoser> next meeting: Tuesday 2012-11-20 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[16:49] <smoser> #end-meeting
[16:49] <smoser> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:49] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Nov 13 16:49:12 2012 UTC.
[16:49] <meetingology> Minutes (wiki):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-11-13-16.20.moin.txt
[16:49] <meetingology> Minutes (html):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-11-13-16.20.html
</pre>
