{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
12:02 lukacu     meeting?
12:02 hno73      Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTeam/Meetings/Agenda
12:03 lukacu     artnay?
=== kafeine [n=kori@87.126.78.83] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== ealden [n=ealden@203.76.211.109] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:11 hno73      Trying again: Hi!
12:11 hno73      The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTeam/Meetings/Agenda
=== Ubuntuser_Ba [n=deb-user@ubuntu/member/ubuntuser] has joined #Ubuntu-meeting
12:13 hno73      I got one positive comment to the wiki restructuring and zero negative on the
                 list
12:13 hno73      so I take that as 'ok, we don't mind' :)
12:14 kafeine    i'm ok
12:14 kafeine    :D
12:15 hno73      Right, then we can move to point 2 :)
12:15 lukacu     :)
12:16 lukacu     great
12:16 hno73      The todo list
=== jsgotangco [n=jsg@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:16 hno73      jsgotangco: hey!
12:16 jsgotangco hno73, hi!
12:16 jsgotangco umm is there a meeting?
12:16 kafeine    yep
12:16 hno73      art team meeting?
12:17 jsgotangco oh cool
=== jsgotangco didn't know
12:17 jsgotangco but since i have admin to art.ubuntu.com might as well jump in :)
12:17 lmanul     Hi all :)
=== lmanul is Manu Cornet
12:17 hno73      jsgotangco, lmanul: see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTeam/Meetings/Agenda
=== jsgotangco is JeromeGotangco
12:18 hno73      Hi lmanul :)
12:18 kafeine    mm, hno73, can you point me to the ToDo since the link at the Agenda seems broken
12:18 hno73      kafeine: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTeam/TodoList
12:19 hno73      sorry, that's my 'restructuring' :p
12:19 jsgotangco ouch that's a lot of TODO
12:19 hno73      or, actually, lazy wiki markup
12:20 hno73      jsgotangco: exactly. unmanageable
12:20 hno73      more of a general braindump area really
12:20 jsgotangco can we make some realistic milestones per dapper dev release?
12:21 kafeine    and distribute them?
12:21 hno73      I think we should make a few simple recommendations for the distro team
12:22 hno73      a recommended icon set, wallpaper etc.
12:22 jsgotangco well obviously we can't be able to do all of this with such short time and
                 manpower
12:22 jsgotangco i'd like to have better AUC action too
12:22 hno73      test them together, find out what is missing
12:22 jsgotangco but the approval process is so tedious
12:23 jsgotangco does AndyFitz stil do stuff for Ubuntu?l
12:23 hno73      better AUC action meaning better tools or more admin work put in?
12:23 hno73      I'm not sure
12:24 jsgotangco hno73, well approving and uploading submitted art is rather cumbersome for now,
                 i've only did it like twice
12:25 hno73      yeah. fixing it is non-trivial though. My recommendation would be a moin-based
                 site
12:25 hno73      It's slightly less elegant, but more flexible
12:25 hno73      there are no admin bottlenecks
12:25 hno73      anyone can upload content
12:25 jsgotangco and we're used to moin clean up
12:26 hno73      right. and we seem to be converging on moin as a standard now
12:26 hno73      http://www.ubuntu.com/ is moin
12:27 jsgotangco was it completely migrated?
12:27 hno73      The main thing that would be missing would be voting and ranking of stuff
12:27 hno73      it is now, yes
=== Ubuntuser_Ba [n=deb-user@ubuntu/member/ubuntuser] has left #Ubuntu-meeting ["Fui!"]
12:28 hno73      if you didn't notice, it means it went fairly well :)
12:28 jsgotangco well i knew from the beginning we were moving to moin, i mean we've worked in
                 orchard, i can see the similarities :)
=== jsgotangco thinks the best way to jumpstart art team is to define goals and plan of action for
dapper
12:30 hno73      About the team itself. I guess volvoguy was leading it, but isn't well. Has
                 someone else taken over for now or is it floating freely ATM?
12:30 jsgotangco no idea
=== hno73 agrees with jsgotangco
12:31 jsgotangco the TODO we have on the wiki is a good start, but not a great staging area
12:31 hno73      So, proposals for dapper goals?
12:32 hno73      some items like the wallpaper and icons will be contracted out at least in part
12:32 jsgotangco most likely we'll not diverge much from GNOME HIG standards
12:32 hno73      but there is example content and secondary themes
12:32 jsgotangco is art responsible for sample content?
12:32 hno73      No, I am :)
=== jsgotangco thought it was jdub's area
12:33 hno73      but, it's an easy place to contribute
12:33 jsgotangco sample content - what does it consist? even media files?
12:33 hno73      making some nice OOo documents should be a doable task
12:34 jsgotangco oh okay, so its an artwork task for dapper
12:34 hno73      yes, but music and video is difficult to find in high quality + free license
12:34 hno73      it can be, if we decide so
12:34 jsgotangco how about just doing some desktop action in istanbul?
12:34 hno73      we can select 5-10 wallpapers for a start
=== mhz [n=mhz_chil@moinmoin/fan/mhz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:35 kafeine    istanbul is pretty buggy
12:35 hno73      that sounds good, any experience with that
12:35 hno73      mhz!
12:35 jsgotangco well i would think volvoguy's svg wallpapers are a good candidate
12:35 mhz        hno73: yes, I just got back to the computer
12:35 mhz        hno73: sorry
12:36 jsgotangco i can try the one in dapper, the one in breezy isn't so hot
12:36 hno73      mhz: no worries, nice to see you :)
12:36 mhz        thx
12:37 hno73      I just got back from the distro-sprint of death
                 https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2006-February/000066.html
12:37 jsgotangco oh the distro sprint of death is now the common tag for it
12:37 hno73      jsgotangco: sounds cool. We should have a soundtrack over it
12:38 hno73      yeah, I think so
12:38 hno73      It might have been food poisoning. I seem to have escaped ok
12:39 jsgotangco thats too bad
12:39 jsgotangco me and sabdfl were talking about it yesterday (he was here)
12:39 hno73      Ah right, how was your meeting?
12:39 jsgotangco pretty good he's upbeat
12:40 jsgotangco i got to meet malcolm and hande too
12:40 jsgotangco they're in tokyo now
12:40 hno73      cool, hectic schedule
12:40 hno73      So, I've been playing with icons today. Who has tried Yasis?
12:40 hno73      what do you guys use?
=== jsgotangco haven't
12:41 jsgotangco Yasis is an icon theme?
=== mhz uses Tango and Gartoon
=== jsgotangco has only used Tango
12:41 hno73      yes http://art.gnome.org/themes/icon/1168
12:41 Kyral      Tango++
12:41 jsgotangco but it doesn't fit our brown scheme
12:41 Kyral      and ++Tango :D
12:41 jsgotangco (needs working)
12:41 hno73      Tango is a bit too blue for Ubuntu atm though
12:41 hno73      I like it otherwise
12:42 Kyral      Good for Kubuntu?
12:42 jsgotangco its preety neat for KDE
12:42 hno73      and Gartoon is of course 'owned' by ubuntu
12:42 jsgotangco but the greenish stuff makes it look a bit like SuSE
12:42 hno73      KDE has a wider choice of suitable sets IMO
12:43 hno73      because kubuntu use a standard colour scheme (blue)
12:43 hno73      while ubuntu went revolutionary brown
12:43 mhz        well, IIRC, Xubuntu default will be Tango
12:44 jsgotangco that would be nice
=== klepas [n=klepas@203-213-31-142.static.tpgi.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:44 jsgotangco are we really getting a Xubuntu iso? sabdfl was pitching it already
12:44 klepas     moin moin
12:44 mhz        jsgotangco: "pitching it"
12:44 mhz        ?
12:44 mhz        klepas: moin
12:45 jsgotangco mhz, he added it on the list of other ubuntu-based distros in his presentations
=== earobinson [n=earobins@64.231.170.14] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:45 mhz        oh, cool
12:45 hno73      So, IMO a task for the art team can be to test various icon themes and form an
                 recomendation
12:46 jsgotangco well ive already tested tango...
12:46 jsgotangco it seems to be the future
12:46 hno73      Yasis is the most suitable I've seen so far
12:46 jsgotangco are you thinking of adding another iconset to the distro?
12:46 hno73      true, but we'd need to change quite a few of the blue icons
12:46 mhz        any news from the "pros" hired by Canonical?
12:47 hno73      jsgotangco: I'm thinking of recommending a new default for dapper
12:47 jsgotangco mhz, what they've done mostly are backgrounds
12:47 jsgotangco hmm
12:47 mhz        jsgotangco: oh, will they do icons?
12:47 hno73      mhz: there are people contracted to work on icons, but there isn't time to do a
                 whole set
12:48 mhz        jsgotangco: oh, have they choosen an icon set?
12:48 hno73      so we have to build on an existing one
12:48 hno73      Tango is a good option
12:48 klepas     hey guys
12:48 jsgotangco i can look into it this weekend
12:48 hno73      Yasis and nouveXT are others
12:48 klepas     i've talked to Andy, Mark and Jeff about this artwork problem
12:49 jsgotangco and?
12:49 hno73      klepas: recently?
12:49 klepas     yes
12:49 klepas     just last week
12:49 klepas     and in person
12:49 hno73      cool
12:49 jsgotangco LCA?
12:49 klepas     yep
12:49 jsgotangco so you saw sabdfl's ravishing new haircut
12:49 klepas     news might not be to welcome though
12:50 hno73      klepas: go ahead
12:50 klepas     Canonical has their own hired graphic artists
12:50 jsgotangco oh we're aware of that
12:50 klepas     in fact they are most likely going to hire more, especially one to make an icon
                 set
12:51 klepas     we won't be able to say "here's our work" and it will be included
12:51 hno73      right, but we can still make recomendations
12:51 klepas     we can still get stuff into mainstream
12:51 hno73      klepas: we never would though
12:51 klepas     if it really good
12:51 klepas     mostly in terms of splashes, GDMs and wallpapers
12:51 hno73      there is always a process of evaluation and comments, etc
12:52 klepas     that is true too
12:52 klepas     this basically means we can probably forget trying to regulate all art in ubuntu
12:52 klepas     at least for now
12:52 hno73      That happens with the hired pros too, but often by phone or in person
12:52 jsgotangco hey we still have community
12:52 hno73      so it's faster
12:52 klepas     yep
12:53 jsgotangco we can put more resource to AUC
12:53 klepas     but for example, our art could still easily get in
12:53 hno73      I think we need to identify which areas we can and should focus on
12:53 klepas     even if it is not the default wallpaper for example
12:53 klepas     it could still come in as one of the two or so others
12:53 hno73      exactly
12:54 klepas     hno73: wallpapers, splashes, GDMs and that's about it
12:54 hno73      we are also adding 'Example Content'
12:54 hno73      which can include wallpapers and other images
12:54 klepas     that does not mean that we can't do other stuff too, like GTK and metacity stuff,
                 but stuff like the above would have a higher chance
12:54 jsgotangco hno73, the example content, for example with OOo docs, we can use text from
                 public domain
12:54 hno73      it would be natural to take that fro the team
12:55 klepas     so, basically as the art team we have a few things to do
12:55 klepas     fix up wiki
12:55 hno73      right, as a base, but we can then include artwork in the documents
12:55 klepas     get AUC working
12:55 klepas     and start doing some art :)
12:55 hno73      get AUC working or replace AUC?
12:56 klepas     i'll leave that up to your imagination
12:56 klepas     :)
12:56 mhz        and the very good thing about artwork from community is that we ALWAYS provide
                 SVG and source files :D
12:56 klepas     mhz: yep
12:56 klepas     it would be interesting to see whether we could get the XCF or PSD file for the
                 current breezy default wallpaper
12:57 hno73      I'm keen to separate the concepts of generating new art and selecting art for
                 inclusion
=== mhz hopes the pros understand they should also provide sources as thye work on Ubuntu (I am
who I am because ...)
12:57 hno73      the second can come from the whole FOSS world
12:58 mhz        also, Artwork team can help LoCo teams
12:58 mhz        they always need artwork
12:58 jsgotangco mhz, with little manpower at the moment?
12:58 klepas     oh
12:58 klepas     there was a sort of request though
12:58 mhz        jsgotangco: hehehe, yes and no
12:58 klepas     of the art team
12:58 jsgotangco we wouldnt want to spread ourselves thin :/
                 If the art team has the view they we will create art which will eventually be
12:58 hno73      included in the distro as a natural process, we will see a lot of frustration and
                 disapointment
12:59 mhz        yup
12:59 klepas     to make and manage universe art packages
12:59 klepas     Mark and Jeff really would love some themed art packages
12:59 mhz        unless we state it every where: "don't think you do this and ..."
12:59 klepas     like a modern theme or a continental theme
01:00 hno73      fixing the accessible themes would be good too
01:00 klepas     yea
01:01 hno73      and it should be easy because those icons are very basic
01:01 hno73      it currently breaks in stuff like OOo and firefox
01:01 hno73      defaulting to normal icons
01:01 klepas     have you guyes seen artnay ?
01:02 hno73      accessibility will be installed in dapper by default, in various ways
01:02 hno73      So it would be nice if the themes worked better
01:02 mhz        hno73: that is great!
01:03 hno73      mhz: yep, latest news from the distro sprint :)
01:03 hno73      https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2006-February/014969.html
01:04 jsgotangco the installer stuff news is great
01:05 hno73      yep. Do we have anyone on the team who can do simple icons?
01:06 jsgotangco well not for this cycle
01:06 klepas     hno73: what do you mean?
=== jsgotangco used to be good with artowkr
01:07 hno73      klepas: what do I mean by simple icons?
01:07 hno73      like what is involved?
=== hno73 has never made any icons :)
01:08 jsgotangco svg makes them easier though
01:08 hno73      but it strikes be that the high viz ones are the easiest to do
01:09 hno73      it might even just be a question of tweaking, duplicating and symlinking a bit
01:09 klepas     what i meant are these icons for?
01:09 hno73      the accessibility icons? Install the gnome high visibility theme to see them
01:10 mhz        hno73: how many icons would you need?
01:10 hno73      they are very simple, high contast icons
01:10 klepas     ah, okay
01:10 hno73      for people with poor vision
01:10 mhz        hno73: rephrase.. icons to launch apps or icons per every button in each app?
01:11 hno73      mhz: not, sure. 20-30 perhaps and then check lot's of links and refrences
01:11 hno73      mhz: I think 90% of the launch icons are in place
01:12 hno73      but only 10% of the icons in the OOo and FF toolbars
01:12 hno73      but it might just be a question of copying and renaming
01:12 hno73      Gedit has a complete set AFAIR
=== mhz needs to check agenda.. he doesn't want to say "I own it" if later he can't
01:12 jsgotangco hmmm
=== jsgotangco can only test for now and do AUC
01:13 hno73      mhz: you know you want it :)
01:13 mhz        hehehehe
01:14 mhz        hno73: it's that in my ToDo list a Moin-a11y CSS had a priority
01:14 hno73      mhz: we were also talking about possibly moving AUC to moin
01:14 mhz        and I guess I am already late for that :D
01:14 mhz        hno73: that I read, but artnay has good points
01:14 hno73      mhz: I've been working on that too. we need to share notes :)
01:15 mhz        and I have not had the chance to show off some Moin "plugins" or "macros" for
                 handling images
01:15 mhz        artnay: ping?
01:16 mhz        artnay_: ping
01:16 mhz        ooofff, guys... family duties calling again!
01:16 mhz        sorry I have to go
=== mhz will read backlogs again!!
01:17 hno73      OK, I think I should retire too
=== mhz is tired of reading logs instead of participating
01:17 hno73      Let's do another meeting again soon though
01:17 hno73      perhaps with a few more team members :)
01:17 jsgotangco good idea
01:17 jsgotangco who will write a report?
01:18 mhz        yup
01:18 mhz        not lukacu :D
=== jsgotangco work time already
01:18 hno73      :D
=== mhz [n=mhz_chil@moinmoin/fan/mhz] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
01:18 jsgotangco we'll need fridge love so a report would be good
01:18 jsgotangco oh mhz left
01:19 jsgotangco hno73, a minute?
01:19 hno73      jsgotangco: yep
01:19 jsgotangco orchard TODO and target dates?
01:20 hno73      hm. You have a deadline soon right?
01:21 hno73      btw, I just moved the site today: http://www.theopencd.org/
01:21 hno73      finally, the wiki and website in one
01:22 hno73      a real moin-based CD is looking unrealistic for the next release though
01:22 jsgotangco ive tried it doing it, its been trashing the cd hard
01:22 hno73      how many new applications did you have in mind?
01:23 jsgotangco well i was thinking of doing a spinoff for mac
01:23 hno73      trying to write stuff to the CD?
01:23 hno73      oh, right
01:24 jsgotangco but are we still including livecd?
01:25 hno73      no I plan to drop that now.
01:25 jsgotangco ok i'll make up a list then
01:25 hno73      people will distribute pure live CDs anyway
01:25 hno73      and it makes derivatives difficult
01:26 hno73      plus it sqeezes the space too much
01:26 hno73      it was a good idea, but not that useful
01:26 jsgotangco ok so i'll just go wild on the orchard wiki?
01:27 hno73      Ubuntu is much bigger than theopencd so it doesn't really need the marketing help
                 :)
01:27 hno73      jsgotangco: yes, please do
01:27 jsgotangco i'll consider pia's suggestions too
01:27 hno73      the edu-cd?
01:27 jsgotangco well not a separate cd
01:28 hno73      but more educational stuff
01:28 jsgotangco we have like 400MB+ now available :)
01:28 hno73      there isn't really that much good stuff for win
01:28 hno73      yep
01:28 jsgotangco how about open content
01:29 hno73      yes, the open clip art lib should go in now
01:29 hno73      as can wallpapers and stuff
01:29 hno73      Ubuntu art team wallpapers!
=== hno73 hopes inkscape is stable enough on win32 to go in now
01:30 hno73      it was pretty bad before
=== lmanul [n=manu@dan75-4-82-239-58-38.fbx.proxad.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
01:30 hno73      we do need to be quite careful about quality
01:31 hno73      ok, I should go now
01:31 jsgotangco ok good night
01:32 hno73      jsgotangco: just ping me tomorrow or whenever
01:32 jsgotangco k
01:32 hno73      good night all

</pre>
