{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
* The CC agenda will be frozen one day before meetings for general items and just before the meetings for locoteams and member candidates
* The UbuntuMediaCenterTeam has been blessed with official recognition
* The US DC, Catalan and Argentina teams are welcomed as official LoCoTeams
==== Members ====
* <nowiki>[[NickAli|Nick Ali]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DudaNogueira|Duda Nogueira]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DaxSolomonUmaming|Dax Solomon Umaming]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MuratGunes|Murat Güneş]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[davewalker|Dave Walker]]</nowiki>

=== Log ===
TZ UTC+1
{{{
03:03	dholbach	ok, let's get started: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda is our agenda for today
03:03	dholbach	is srimadas here?
03:03	dholbach	amachu seems to be his nick on freenode
03:04	jsgotangco	yes that's amachu
03:04	dholbach	ok, amachu seems to not be around... he asked for a clarification on "Ubuntu Derivative - reg. Recently we had the formation of Ubuntu Derivative Team. It appears that some gap has been formed in between [https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2007-April/001280.html]  following this mail and its replies. Would like to get clarified on such issues."
03:04	dholbach	I can just add a few points to that:
03:05	dholbach	I'm in touch with David Farning at the moment, but until now the issues he talked about are rather nebulous to me - I don't exactly know what problem there was with Canonical
03:06	dholbach	we should invite amachu and dfarning to one of the next meetings and talk about this again
03:06	jsgotangco	my take on this one is that it falls pretty much under the trademark policy under derived works just like how other derivatives fall under
03:06	sabdfl	I've not heard anything from dfarning on the subject
03:06	dholbach	also, I asked the sysadmins to create a ubuntu-derivative mailing list - I will announce it and I hope that will make us work closer together with the derivatives
03:07	dholbach	we had some very good sessions with the guys from Guadalinex at UDS, so I'm very confident this will help improve things
03:07	sabdfl	ok. we have a very strong pro-derivative policy in general, and want them to feel welcome to use ubuntu as it suits them
03:07	sabdfl	next?
03:08	dholbach	juliux proposed "CCAgenda freeze - The wikipage for the CommunityCouncilAgenda, should be frozen a few days before the CC Meeting so everybody can check if the items are interesting to him or not."
03:08	sabdfl	i'd rather not, as it would introduce greater delays i think
03:08	jsgotangco	was the wiki page frozen at all? I noticed changes until this morning...but then it only took me an hour to read everything
03:08	sabdfl	that said, we don't want people adding items during the meeting, either :-)
03:08	dholbach	hehe
03:09	MikeB-	:)
03:09	juliux	i put that up because there were some people adding himself for membership just a few minutes before the meeting
03:09	gnomefreak	freezing it would help keep meetings shorter
03:09	kjcole	Seems wise, considering the CC meets fairly regularly.  On the other hand one can always freeze it an hour before rather than days.
03:09	jsgotangco	i believe a placeholder notice would do for now
03:09	kjcole	(Perhaps "hours" rather than an hour or days.)
03:09	juliux	i think the general agenda items should be froozen, so everybody knows about the items for the next meeting
03:10	juliux	kjcole, did you check the agenda every hour?
03:10	sabdfl	what about taking a different approach to discussion items vs memberships/loco's
03:10	sabdfl	i see no problem with someone adding themselves for membership just before hand, as long as they have folks there who will speak for them to backup their wiki pages and lp track record
03:10	juliux	sabdfl, i am happy if the general items are frozen a few days before the meeting
03:11	sabdfl	for discussion items, it makes sense to freeze a little earlier (though i don't think more than 24 hours is needed)
03:11	Seveas	sorry for being late, network problems
03:11	kjcole	juliux, no but it seemed like a compromise between not freezing, and freezing days ahead.  And I would check a few hours ahead if that were the established policy.  (Or live with the uncertainty.)
03:11	sabdfl	also, it should be good practice to notify anyone concerned that an item was added
03:11	sabdfl	especially in the case of a dispute
03:11	sabdfl	so we get the chance to hear from all sides
03:12	jsgotangco	that's ideal
03:12	Seveas	sabdfl, good idea
03:12	Seveas	(was the first item on the agenda skipped?)
03:13	dholbach	Seveas: amachu was not here
03:13	sabdfl	no, just rapidly dispensed with
03:13	Seveas	ok
03:13	kjcole	Encourage people who add agenda items to subscribe?  (I get automatic notices when the CC agenda page changes...)
03:13	sabdfl	so, can we agree on 24 hours for discussion items, and just before for memberships/locos?
03:13	dholbach	I'm happy with that
03:13	kjcole	Maybe a note on the agenda page suggesting subscription?
03:13	Seveas	likewise
03:13	MikeB-	sabdfl: sounds good
03:14	jsgotangco	yes
03:14	juliux	sabdfl, sounds good
03:14	dennda	nice idea
03:14	sabdfl	ok, i think that's sufficient consensus, seveas could you update the page accordingly?
03:15	Seveas	will do
03:15	dholbach	next item: Uzuul wants blessing for the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMediaCenterTeam
03:15	Uzuul	I've put the latest status & roadmap here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMediaCenterTeam/Status20070514
03:16	Uzuul	we're on the road to success, federating *all* the players in the field (Debian, Ubuntu, Elisa, LIRC, ...) to work together...
03:17	jsgotangco	that's a healthy spread of team members
03:18	Uzuul	jsgot: yeah ;-)
03:18	mako	i hope you got my message 15 minutes before saying i'd be miss the beginning of hte meeting
03:18	jsgotangco	how do you forsee this project going during gutsy development?
03:19	mako	apologies for the disruption, i'm reading scrollback
03:19	Uzuul	jsgotangco: well, we will have releasable things. Elisa 0.2 will be out for the Guadec, packages are underway...
03:19	elmo	sorry, but what does federating mean in this context?
03:20	Uzuul	the only point is about the artwork (missing gfx designers) and the achievement of our UI goals. I've no exact idea yet!
03:20	dholbach	looks like you have lots of ideas and a lot of people in the team
03:20	dholbach	how many people are working on getting the changes you propose into Ubuntu?
03:20	Uzuul	elmo: team members, working together on the same aims...
03:21	Uzuul	dholbach: some 10 peoples really active. but we are quickly growing...
03:21	dudanogueira	Uzuul, i know a very good gfx designer. vdepizzol. he probably will be very interested in design it.
03:21	dholbach	I'm asking because the goals you propose in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MediaCenter/SoftwareSpecs look quite some work
03:22	Uzuul	dholbach: we work a lot upstream, so hitting ubuntu by side effect...
03:22	Uzuul	dholbach: Elisa team already address a lot ;-) Isn't it Kaleo
03:22	Kaleo	About the artwork, we have a graphist in the Elisa team
03:23	Uzuul	dudanogueira: thanks for this. I'll contact him...
03:23	Kaleo	Feature-wise, Elisa is meant to achieve many of the points listed in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MediaCenter/SoftwareSpecs soon
03:23	sabdfl	as i understand it, the initial step is just packaging Elisa, right?
03:24	sabdfl	that in itself would be a very good start
03:24	dudanogueira	Uzuul, he is right here: http://vdepizzol.wordpress.com/
03:24	jsgotangco	that's how i got it as well
03:24	jsgotangco	package Elisa, and have it on Ubuntu as a good platform
03:24	sabdfl	that's fine by me!
03:24	Uzuul	sabdfl: right ! I'm working, as a DD, with Loic Minier, on this point.
03:24	sabdfl	super
03:25	sabdfl	once you have a core piece of software like that in place, you can build a custom derivative easily enough
03:25	Uzuul	sabdfl: but that's just a small beginning. The big things comes then ;-)
03:25	sabdfl	well, let's take one step at a time :-)
03:26	jsgotangco	there's huge interest in having free software in the entertainment hub and having this go along with Ubuntu will definitely create a following
03:26	Uzuul	sabdfl: right, but some things can be done in // without impacting the schedule (like the LIRC improvements) ;-)
03:26	sabdfl	we get a LOT of requests for media centre functionality, so it will be great to be able to point folks at Elisa
03:26	sabdfl	LIRC?
03:26	Seveas	infrared
03:26	Seveas	remote control things
03:26	jsgotangco	ahh for all-in-one remotes
03:26	mako	sabdfl: absolutely
03:26	Treenaks	(shouldn't lirc be replaced by proper kernel input drivers?)
03:26	dholbach	I'm very happy you're keen on getting this done and are so enthusiastic about it; I'm with sabdfl here: I'd recommend splitting up the long list of goals in tiny tiny tasks, so you can easily track them and get people involved with them
03:26	Uzuul	sabdfl: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RemoteControls
03:27	Daviey	Treenaks, being worked on already
03:27	Treenaks	Daviey: \o/
03:28	Uzuul	Daviey: can you contact me back for more info? I have a task underway upstream on that...
03:28	Daviey	Uzuul, pm
03:28	Uzuul	dholbach: the tasks splitting is planned.
03:29	sabdfl	Uzuul: what do you need from us right now?
03:29	Uzuul	sabdfl: an official blessing, and a mailing list.
03:30	sabdfl	+1 from me
03:30	MikeB-	+1 from me, definitely an area Ubuntu should support
03:31	jsgotangco	there's some work to be done, but it seems there is more work being accomplished upstream, so I would give my +1 as well to have something for Ubuntu in the future
03:31	dholbach	+1
03:31	mako	if you really have ~30 members, it seems that this would be overdue
03:31	mako	+1 from me
03:32	sabdfl	elmo?
03:33	dholbach	Uzuul: it'd be nice to hear back from you team every now and then to see how you're progressing (maybe on one of the other mailing lists)
03:33	elmo	+1
03:33	sabdfl	Uzuul: i think you can proceed, elmo will likely chime in with additional comments and questions in due course
03:33	sabdfl	ok
03:33	sabdfl	congrats Uzuul! please keep us posted, and good luck building your team
03:33	jsgotangco	Uzuul: good luck along with the team!
03:33	sabdfl	ok, loco's!
03:33	Kaleo	thank you guys :)
03:33	sabdfl	kjcole: around?
03:33	Uzuul	sabdfl: thanks fellows. I'll keep you informed (any prefered ml?)
=== kjcole is here
=== rafael_carreras is here
03:34	sabdfl	Uzuul: keep the UWN folks abreast of news that the whole community will be interested in, and perhaps report back here every month or so initially
03:34	dudanogueira	Uzuul, congrats!
03:35	Uzuul	all: thanks. we'll do the necessary to succeed. see you soon. bye
=== beuno takes notes for the UWN
03:35	beuno	Uzuul: get in touch with me for the UWN
03:38	Treenaks	sabdfl: www.xs4all.nl/~johnpc/uniud/
03:46	Uzuul	beuno: ok, I'll update you asap for the first milestones.
03:34	sabdfl	dcteam!
03:34	sabdfl	let's go
03:35	kjcole	Hi. The Washington, DC LoCo Team's been around for a while but we were under the impression that we'd been formalized.
03:35	jsgotangco	anyone from DC team aside from kjcole
03:35	jsgotangco	ahh
03:35	flint	jsgotangco, I am here.
03:36	kjcole	jelkner's on, but teaching class, so attendance is spotty at best.
03:36	sabdfl	i've been aware of this team for some time, also thought they were formalised
03:36	kjcole	We've now got a forum, and are scheduling meetings.
03:36	jsgotangco	yes same here
03:36	jsgotangco	and this is a fairly active team in the US, if not the first
03:37	jsgotangco	(especially in the education front)
03:37	flint	sabdfl, I formed this group after Ubuntu Down Under. that was a while ago....
03:37	Seveas	lots of madness in there :)
03:37	kjcole	Our web site is undergoing change now, as we work with high school students, and they get the opportunity to redesign it.
03:38	sabdfl	ok, kjcole do you want anything other than a quick ack? we know and love ya :-)
03:38	jsgotangco	yes, i even got to talk to jeffrey elkner in person that they were forming something...
03:38	mako	sure, i'd be in a bunch of touch with flint and kjcole about the team
03:38	jono	the dc team looks promising
03:38	kjcole	I guess we're just looking for the official blessing / rubber stamp.
03:38	Vorian	I can vouch that the DC team does a LOT for the DC area...  Great team!
03:38	jono	membership is quite low though
03:38	mako	if anything, i think we might have really pushed the team before there was a formal procedure
03:38	sabdfl	kjcole: any recent events or highlights you can tell us about?
03:39	kjcole	We're planning the Free/Open Source Software in Education conference (FOSSED) for August.  That's the biggest thing on our plate.
03:40	jelkner	we are setting up several community computing center in the dc area using edubuntu
03:40	sabdfl	where will that be held?
03:40	flint	sabdfl, they have the yhslug meeting coming up Friday.
03:40	kjcole	Once again, we'll be doing Software Freedom Day (year 3 for us) and the Takoma Park Folk Festival (year 2) in the fall.
03:40	jono	kjcole: what plans do you have to grow the membership?
03:40	jelkner	jono: our membership doubled in the last month
03:40	jono	jelkner: right
03:40	kjcole	Gallaudet University, my place of gainful employment.  But we're aiming at K-12 primarily.
03:40	Vorian	jono, they have a new forum on ubuntu forums, that should be a big boost.
03:41	jelkner	we really need to just be more aggressive in asking folks to formalize it
03:41	jelkner	we've been a bit lax in that
03:41	flint	jono, the goal is also aimed at the U.S. high school age 11-18 years old...
03:41	jono	right
03:41	popey	sabdfl, elmo, mako, I have to disappear, but Daviey asked me to flag wave for him. Consider this a flag wave :)
03:41	mako	popey: sounds good, thanks
03:41	kjcole	For a team that's based around an area not even considered a state, how big a membership should we have?  We're trying to keep it to people who are genuinely interested enough to get signed up on Launchpad...
03:42	jsgotangco	surely you can get more people with enough exposure to local events?
03:43	MikeB-	jono: the DC area is a different beast, since it is such a commuter town.
03:44	jelkner	i have a question about this...
03:44	jelkner	we touch a lot of people
03:44	jono	team looks good to me
03:44	flint	The point of the DC LoCo is that it should be "grandfathered" in because it lead the whole LoCo concept.  Is this a numbers game, or is having representation in the US Capitol just a good idea?
03:44	jelkner	most of them will not become "members"
03:44	jono	but I would like them to concentrate on growing membership
03:44	jelkner	we think of members as activists
03:44	kjcole	Well, there are people who are interested as end-users...   And, we're starting to get local "competition" (for lack of a friendlier word).
03:44	jelkner	we will work for more members
03:45	sabdfl	i don't think there's a "necessary threshold" of numbers
=== mako nods to sabdfl
03:45	sabdfl	and the DC team has pioneered a number of great concepts in the use of free software in education
03:45	jsgotangco	it still does for sure
03:45	mako	the only reason that the DC loco isn't "official" is that they predate the official concept
03:45	sabdfl	so i'm +1 on formalising them as an Ubuntu LoCo team
03:45	dholbach	I'm personally quite happy with what the DC team did until now
03:45	jono	indeed, membership is not an identification of a good team, it just helps with sustainability, and it is clear the DC team is doing good work
03:45	kjcole	(Within a short subway ride we have the DCLUG, NOVALUG, YHSLUG, UMDLUG, DC Loco, NE US Regional Loco, MD Loco...
03:45	flint	The DC LoCo is also affiliated with no less than three LUGs in the DC area, in DC, Maryland and Virginia.
03:46	dholbach	(and thought it was formalised already)
03:46	kjcole	We were just first among LoCo's.)
03:46	mako	i think it should be *every* teams goal to grow membership in that one of the goals to spread the word
03:46	mako	that said, while the numbers of participants can be a very good sign of the activity within a loco, it shouldn't be a litmus test
03:46	jono	mako: exactly
03:46	flint	mako, we spread the code, and all else comes to pass.
03:46	dholbach	+1 from me: uo o
03:46	mako	jono: i mean, 1 person is not  much of a team :)
03:47	jsgotangco	+1 as well o
03:47	jono	mako: heh
03:47	mako	+1 from me
03:47	MikeB-	+1 from me
03:47	jono	mako: you should have seen a recent approval application I got ;)
03:48	mako	"No (Wo)Man Is A LoCo"
03:48	jsgotangco	jelkner: whatever happened to colin applegate
03:48	jelkner	he is back
03:48	jelkner	was away at college
03:48	jelkner	now back for the summer
03:48	jsgotangco	good to hear
03:48	jsgotangco	time flies
03:48	mako	although they might be loco
03:48	kjcole	Thank you all.  Does one of you update the LoCo page or shall we move ourselves?
03:48	flint	Colin is asleep as one could expect from most teenagers...
03:49	Vorian	congrats kjcole and flint!!!  uo o :)
03:49	juliux	kjcole, why are you wearing a fedora on the picture on your wikisite?
03:50	flint	juliux, I agree with you on this point.  But I think the Red Hat is worn in pity.
03:50	flint	:^0
03:51	mako	juliux, kjcole: fedoras are nice hats
03:49	jojopas	Good Evening sirs. It's getting awfully late here and I need to go home. But before I leave, I would like to endorse Mr. Dax Umaming. My name is Jojo Pascua and I attended mr. Umaming's Ubuntu Training held at Lourdes College in Daet, Camarines Norte, Philippines last April 11. I learned a lot from him and he accomplished a lot in just one day. His training was very precise and will surely help out the school. I'm now using Kubuntu. By the
03:49	jojopas	way,he managed to convert the whole school to use Ubuntu. And because of him, single-handedly, 800 Kinder, Elementary, high School, and College students will be using Xubuntu 7 this coming school year in June. Also, he'll be back by the 3rd or 4th week of June for another trainig, but this time it's for the local gov't of Daet, with gov't agencies joining him. I hope you consider him. I'm not a member of Ubuntu rarely in IRC, so my apologies if I disturbed anyone. thank you and Goodnigth!
03:49	jsgotangco	ummm jojopas bless you
03:49	jojopas	sorry
03:50	sabdfl	thanks jojopas
03:51	Seveas	(I added that to the wikipage of Dax Umaming)
03:48	Seveas	Next: beuno and the Argentina team
03:49	beuno	thanks Seveas
03:49	mako	a particiuarly appropriate comment for the argentina team?
03:49	beuno	mornin' sabdfl
03:49	kjcole	Because Ubuntu doesn't have as nice a looking hat. ;-)
03:49	beuno	I'm Martin Albisetti and I'm representing the Argentina LoCo today. The team has been active for over eight months, and in that time we've grown up to over 100 members in Launchpad alone, participated in a few Instalfests and promoted Ubuntu all over the Country. Some of us have even traveled over 400km to other locations and setup booths to talk to people in conferences (see some great pictures linked in the Wiki). We also provide *a lot* of support to users in the forums and Mailing List. Links: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArgentinaTeamApprovalApplication and https://launchpad.net/~uluga/

03:51	jono	have we not got to the catalan team yet?
03:51	rafael_carreras	Nice to meet you, Council
03:51	mako	jono: nope
03:51	jono	mako: right
03:51	sabdfl	ok, Catalan team?
03:52	rafael_carreras	here we are
03:52	sabdfl	fire away
03:52	rafael_carreras	The Ubuntu Catalan LoCo Team is a very active, fast growing group of people that gathers the Catalan-speaking users community of Ubuntu in all its varieties. The scope of the Catalan LoCo Team is mainly the Catalan Countries, that is, the territories where Catalan is traditionally spoken, where members and volunteers are scattered practically all over their geography. Its aim is to support and promote Ubuntu amongst the Catalan
03:52	rafael_carreras	speaking community as it is the most important resource of information about Ubuntu in this language. We are a very heterogeneus and varied group of people focused on spreading the free software philosophy, specially Ubuntu, and have several projects in mind that will be carried out by our different workgroups in the near future.
03:52	jono	can I just say that https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CatalanTeam/ApprovalApplication is the finest example of an approval application seen yet in the project
03:52	jono	well done
03:52	rafael_carreras	thanks
03:53	Seveas	jono, whoops, thought i didn't see rafael
03:53	mako	ok wait...
03:53	mako	i'm getting really confused
03:55	dholbach	let's stay at the catalan team now
03:55	sabdfl	mako:  happens to me quite often too
03:55	mako	i just got done reading through the stuff on the argentine team
03:56	beuno	mako: Catalan team is up first, we got confused
03:56	mako	alright
03:56	dholbach	the team seems to be up and running quite well - lots of people on the mailing list and nice wiki pages as well
03:56	jono	ok catalan
03:56	mako	dholbach: the catalan team?
03:56	dholbach	yes
03:56	jono	I think the team seems to be doing excellent work
03:56	jsgotangco	i am not to familiar with catalan or its history, but from what i understand this is a team composed of people using catalan the language so its possible to have members in spain, france and italy?
03:56	mako	alright, we're doing the catalan team, in case anyone else is confused
03:57	sabdfl	this is pretty fantastic - i love the fact that there is participation from cultural, artistic, development, linguisitic and educational sources
03:57	alex_muntada	jsgotangco: that's right
03:57	jsgotangco	this is very intereting
03:57	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CatalanTeam/En says "Define activities and objectives." on your TODO list - rafael_carreras: do you have any plans for the next weeks and months?
03:57	jono	oh
03:58	rafael_carreras	next Sunday we wil have an install--party
03:58	jono	so this is about the catalan language?
03:58	alex_muntada	dholbach: this is the roadmap, in english https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CatalanTeam/ApprovalApplication#head-894924807cb56c0fdfc7c58a49b8de0cf68b5c73
03:58	mako	jono: agreed completely
03:58	sabdfl	it's very exciting to see this level of activity in the region, two and 1/2 years after our Mataro distro summit :-)
03:58	mako	this is a fantastic application
03:58	alex_muntada	jono: what do you mean exactly?
03:59	sabdfl	+1 from me, and congratulations to the team leaders on doing such a fantastic job of building a diverse community
03:59	jsgotangco	"buntu Catalan User community gathers Catalan-speaking users of Ubuntu in all its varieties. The scope of the Catalan LoCo Team is mainly [WWW]  the Catalan Countries, that is, the territories where Catalan is traditionally spoken, where members and volunteers are spread practically all over their geography."
03:59	dholbach	alex_muntada: thanks - it looks great
03:59	jono	I am keen to see loco teams based mainly on a country or state, and then those teams to come together to form language coalitions
03:59	mako	i have been considering moving to barcelona for a bit, this is increasingly my desire to do so :)
03:59	jono	is this team for a specific country?
04:00	Seveas	jono, a specific region
04:00	rafael_carreras	mako: wellcom, then :-)
04:00	alex_muntada	jono: no, there's no Catalan country... it's about Catalan Countries
04:00	jsgotangco	Spain, Italy, France, Andorra
04:00	alex_muntada	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catalan_countries
04:00	toniher_uni	hi mako! I see you liked Vilanova
04:00	jono	alex_muntada: right, so this team spans a number of countries
04:00	jsgotangco	(or areas where catalan is spoken that is)
04:00	toniher_uni	Hi all
04:00	MikeB-	Northern Spain and Southern France mostly, I think
04:00	carlesoriol	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catalan_Countries
04:01	alex_muntada	jono: that's it... i.e. in Andorra the official language is Catalan
04:01	jono	right
04:01	mako	the ultimate sign of a great team is that makes people want to move to their community to participate, +1 from me :)
04:01	dholbach	+1 from me too - your team is amazing
04:01	jsgotangco	it is a fantastic concept +1 from me
04:01	jono	I vote a +1, the team is clearly doing excellent work
04:01	Seveas	jono, you can't vote :)
04:01	jono	and setting a standard for approval applications
04:01	rafael_carreras	thanks a lot!
04:01	jono	Seveas: not officially, but anyone can weigh in
04:01	MikeB-	+1 from me, your are setting a fantastic example for other LoCos
04:01	sabdfl	rafael_carreras: it would be amazing if you guys could write up a 1-page summary of how you inspire your team, which we could share with the rest of the comunityvia Ubuntu Weekly News
=== mako nods to sabdfl
04:02	rafael_carreras	sabdfl: ok
04:02	mako	i think a lot of other teams can learn a lot from you
04:02	beuno	rafael_carreras: get in touch with me for that, we have a "special edition" on LoCos
=== loudmouthman has taken notes already
04:02	rafael_carreras	beuno: got it
04:03	beuno	*we can have, that is
04:04	mako	beuno: ok, i guess you're up now, but we have your blurb from last time
04:04	beuno	mako: want me to paste it in again?
04:06	mako	no, no, i don't thnk that's necessary
04:07	mako	beuno: so you've been active for roughly 6 months now, it seems
04:07	jsgotangco	bueno: how many active members are there from the LP's 100 listed
04:07	jono	argentina team looks good, good to see regular meetings and different activities
04:07	jono	healthy membership
04:07	mako	reasongly consistent traffic on the list, good site
04:07	dholbach	the forum and mailing list look quite active - how's the "Support network for beginners" coming along?
=== mako nods to jono
04:07	beuno	mako: the team was created in September 2006, and it took a few months to start getting our resources together
=== mako nods to beuno
04:08	beuno	jsgotangco: I'd say around 30ish
04:08	beuno	shawarma: Support for beginners is our #1 activity on there
04:08	sabdfl	that;s not bad
04:08	dholbach	do you use a wiki for support answers? or a mailing list for questions?
04:08	sabdfl	i see the team is moderated - what criteria do you apply to allow people into the team?
04:08	beuno	we have around 10 or 12 VERY active members
04:09	beuno	dholbach: we answer on a case-by-case basis on botht he forum and mailing list
04:09	beuno	sabdfl: the team is moderated mainly just to be able to know new members when they arrive, no special requierements
04:10	beuno	I like to great them :D
04:10	sabdfl	ok
04:10	sabdfl	nice to see you using the mentorship piece in LP :-)
04:10	beuno	we've been growing pretty fast the past few months, many new members each week all over the country
04:10	sabdfl	and the web site is very slick
04:11	sabdfl	also, martin is doing amazing work on UWN
04:11	sabdfl	so, all in all, +1 from me
04:11	beuno	sabdfl: I'm trying to teach everyone to use Launchpad, I'm holding a session for everyone in the LoCo in a few weeks
04:11	beuno	sabdfl: thanks, boredandblogging, which is up for membership now has had a lot to do with that :D
04:12	beuno	a lot of the LoCo members are here right now watching, maybe they can speak up?
04:12	jsgotangco	good idea
04:12	eternal1d1	hi
04:12	marianom	Hi there. Mariano here, I'm with the Argentina Team too
04:12	spg76	hello everyone
04:12	duckman	hi!
04:12	jmorelli	Hello, thanks Ubuntu, !!!
=== beuno marianom is one of our mosta ctive members
04:12	lavaramano	hi there
04:12	eternal1d1	hi, my name is Diego, I'm from the Argentina Locoteam
04:12	duckman	here from the arg team =)
04:12	mlt	hi :)
04:13	sabdfl	welcome all
04:13	dholbach	hello Argentina! :-)
04:13	sabdfl	and great work!
04:13	lavaramano	arg member here
04:13	Florencia	Ffrom the Argentina Team
04:13	mlt	thanks sabdfl
04:13	sabdfl	anybody else from the CC care to weigh in?
04:13	jsgotangco	great to see everyone, +1 from me, i just want to ask, any major event the loco would be invoved with
04:13	mako	+1 from me as well
04:13	dholbach	+1 from me - well done everybody in the Argentina team
04:14	MikeB-	+1 here
04:14	dudanogueira	bueno, im from the ubuntu-br loco, we can exchange some ideas :) feel free to contact us :)
04:14	sabdfl	alrighty
04:14	beuno	jsgotangco: yes, we participated in the Flisol event (Instalfest all over latin america), and installed Ubuntu on close to 100 PCs
04:15	beuno	right, thanks sabdfl, mako, MikeB-, jsgotangco
04:15	duckman	thanks for the membership!
04:16	lipe_	thanks!!
04:16	beuno	dudanogueira: will get in touch with you, thanks
04:14	Seveas	Membership candidates
04:14	Seveas	We have 9 of them this time
04:15	sabdfl	is everyone on the list, here?
04:15	Seveas	boredandblogging, you're the first (Tm_T and nealcmb are missing)
04:15	boredandblogging	ok...
04:15	boredandblogging	Hi, I'm Nick. I've been a linux user on and off for about 10 years. I've been using Ubuntu exclusively since Breezy. I started getting involved in the Ubuntu community at the beginning of this year. I've been helping the Georgia US LoCo get started and helping out as much as I can on the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter (it was Corey Burger's idea for me to apply for membership). And recently I've started working on the LoCo h
04:15	boredandblogging	osting admin team. My wiki page is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NickAli
04:16	Vorian	boredandblogging, has done tremendous work for the Marketing Team, his loco team in Georgia (US) and the US teams project.  He is a diamond in the rough!
=== nixternal recognizes boredandblogging as da bomb! :)
04:17	atoponce	i'm here to show my support for boredandblogging in building the GA LoCo team. he knows what he's doing, and is very active.
=== beuno is behind boredandblogging 100%, he's been doing all the heavy lifting for UWN
04:16	slackwarelife	I'm Massimo, my launchpad id https://launchpad.net/~slackwarelife,   I started with linux 5 years ago. Thanks
04:17	dholbach	slackwarelife: hang on, it's still boredandblogging's turn
04:17	Seveas	slackwarelife, please wait your turn
04:17	jsgotangco	wiki is very informative and shows sustained contribution in UWN and documentation
04:17	slackwarelife	dholbach: ok, sorry :-[
04:17	MikeB-	boredandblogging: where at in Georgia
04:17	boredandblogging	:-)
04:17	dholbach	boredandblogging: nice wiki page
04:18	boredandblogging	MikeB-, suburbs of Atlanta, Smyrna
04:18	nixternal	CC: There isn't much boredandblogging and hasn't helped out with around here when it comes to the marketing team and with the US LoCo Teams! He is my hero, well jsgotangco is my hero, so boredandblogging would be #2 ;p
04:18	boredandblogging	nixternal, lol
04:18	nixternal	enjoy my wonderful abuse of the english language
04:18	MikeB-	boredandblogging: cool, I'm an old member of Athens CHUGALUG
04:19	boredandblogging	MikeB-, the guy who started the Georgia LoCo is a member of CHUGALUG
=== nixternal used to live in Snellville
04:19	Zelut	When I traveled to GA a few weeks ago boredandblogging setup a meet between myself and some of the team.  It was really productive I think.
04:19	Vorian	CC: Since I met boredandblogging, he has done nothing but volunteer for projects, and see them through.  He is also too modest to tell you he is a LoCo website admin appointed by the great newz2000 himself.
04:20	MikeB-	boredandblogging also does great work on the Forums
04:20	MikeB-	definitely a +1 from me
04:20	jsgotangco	I am happy to give my +1 as he is very much involved in almost all facets of community as well as the testimonials presented
04:20	jsgotangco	(seems to be long overdue even)
=== atoponce nods
04:21	Vorian	jsgotangco, true true :)
04:22	jsgotangco	others?
04:22	Seveas	how many +1s do we need?
=== mako still looking
04:22	Vorian	the other CC members are in awe of boredandblogging
04:23	Seveas	we have 8 CC members, is 4 +1s enough, or do we want 5?
04:23	mako	yes, this looks fine +1 from me
04:23	dudanogueira	im here :P
04:23	mako	Seveas: you should definitely have a majority of those present
04:23	mako	Seveas: and ideally a majority of the council
04:23	MikeB-	Seveas: I assume a majority
04:24	jsgotangco	point of order: a majority of the council would mean 5 members that means at least 5 should be present in every meeting
04:24	Seveas	we have 7 present so we need 4
04:26	dholbach	Seveas: we have 6 present, no?
04:26	dholbach	jsgotangco: yes, we should have 5 in every meeting - that's how I see it too
04:26	mako	jsgotangco: yes, that makes sense
04:27	MikeB-	corey and matthew are out
04:27	dholbach	I'm happy with boredandblogging has worked on until now, so he has my +1 too
04:28	elmo	+1
04:28	mako	+1 for board and blogging
04:28	mako	if i iddn't already
04:29	Vorian	w00t! congrats boredandblogging!!!!!
04:29	alins	com ha anat?
04:29	boredandblogging	wohoo! thanks
04:29	Seveas	dholbach, ah, sorry
04:29	Seveas	boredandblogging now has +4
04:29	Seveas	sabdfl, elmo ?
04:29	Zelut	boredandblogging: welcome
04:29	etank	good job boredandblogging
04:29	elmo	Seveas: I already voted
04:29	elmo	15:28 < elmo> +1
04:29	dholbach	Seveas: np
04:29	atoponce	boredandblogging: congrats
04:29	Vorian	Seveas, he has 5 +1's
04:30	Seveas	elmo, one of us is lagging, I saw your vote after my call :)
04:30	MikeB-	boredandblogging: congrats
04:30	boredandblogging	thanks everyone
04:30	Seveas	anyway, congrats boredandblogging
04:30	alex_muntada	alins was asking if the catalan team was approved... alins: yes!
04:30	Vorian	well deserved boredandblogging :)
04:30	Seveas	dudanogueira, you're up
04:30	dudanogueira	ok!
04:31	sabdfl	welcome, boredandblogging
04:31	dudanogueira	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DudaNogueira
04:31	mako	i might have to disappear in half an hour
04:31	boredandblogging	sabdfl, thanks
04:31	dudanogueira	im spreading the ubuntu all over i can.
04:32	sabdfl	i have to switch to a conf call, so please keep going without me, will read scrollback
04:32	dudanogueira	I'm an active member of ubuntu-br-mg, and also working to expand the Ubuntu Spirit for all over the MG state and, if possible, all over my country. My focus is on something i call "Users Profile Documentation", participating and organizing events (mainly in br-mg) and new users support.
04:32	mako	MG is minas gerais?
04:32	dudanogueira	mako, yeah!
04:32	Seveas	I'm disappearing noe
04:32	Seveas	now*
04:32	jsgotangco	thanks Seveas
04:33	Seveas	will do lp/wiki duties later
04:33	mako	Seveas: thanks!
04:33	dudanogueira	the most two active loco teams here in BR are MG (licio and me) and BA (Alexandro Silva and Fabio Nogueira)
04:33	dholbach	thanks a lot Seveas
04:33	mako	dudanogueira: MG is also one of the most populous states, right?
04:34	mako	are you in belo horizonte?
04:34	dudanogueira	mako on, SP is. we are the thrid ot second most popular
04:34	dudanogueira	mako no, SP...
04:34	mako	and are things centered around bh? i see it's a very large state
04:34	dudanogueira	yes, im in belo horizonte
04:35	dudanogueira	mako, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro is the "center" of brazil. but they loco isnt so strong
04:35	jwendell	i confirm the great job dudanogueira is doing. He's very active on IRC also, by helping people
04:36	mako	dudanogueira: i like the start you've gotten to on some of your wiki pages
04:37	jsgotangco	how active the ubuntu locos are during FISL? i see a jono pic heh
04:37	dudanogueira	mako, my next plan is to help the guys of the ubuntu games. theres a very a mount of infos, but all in english. games is very important to catch kids attention. On FISL, when we did a local lan a lot of kids was amazed with the cool games
04:38	dudanogueira	jsgotangco, ubuntu here is growing fast. on FISL i can say that we were the most active user groups, and more active then lot of commercial stands
04:38	dudanogueira	(sorry about the bad english :P)
04:38	dudanogueira	a lot of people asking for help, cds, fotos, sticks every time!
04:39	mako	i see you have testimonials on your page
04:39	mako	is anyone here to cheer for dudanogueira?
04:39	dudanogueira	jwendell, and licio, but licio is on a meeting on his work, and should be back in few minutes
04:39	dudanogueira	the other guys coudnt be here now, but let their testimonials
04:39	jwendell	mako, i confirm the great job dudanogueira is doing. He's very active on IRC also, by helping people
04:39	mako	alright
=== mako is fine with +1
04:40	mako	you've a good deal of visible activity that goes back well into last year
=== jsgotangco gives his +1 as well
04:40	mako	the documentation for some of it could be better, but with a little digging there's a pretty consistent and i suspect sustainable contribution
04:40	mako	that i think makes a real difference
04:40	mako	especially in your loco
04:40	MikeB-	+1, great work
04:41	dudanogueira	mako, im good with interviews and all. on FISL i talked for the main TV Station as the a community member
04:41	dholbach	+1 from me too
04:42	jsgotangco	ok looks good then
04:42	dholbach	elmo?
04:42	jsgotangco	elmo?
04:42	jsgotangco	:D
04:42	mako	who's up next
04:42	mako	i turn into a pumpkin soon
04:42	elmo	+1
04:42	jsgotangco	ok DPic
04:42	dudanogueira	right now im unemployed (on my own) and working with a UFMG project. last week i installed ubuntu on 20 pcs on their lab, and will continue into the secretary area
04:42	jsgotangco	welcome dudanogueira!
04:42	dudanogueira	UFMG == Federal College
04:42	jwendell	congrats, and welcome, dudanogueira
04:42	Belutz	jsgotangco, hi... and congrats :D
04:42	dudanogueira	greaaaat!
04:42	nealmcb	I"m sorry I missed my spot earlier, but am ready any time.
04:42	mako	Dpic?
04:42	dholbach	congratulations dudanogueira
04:43	mako	Danny Piccirillo?
04:43	MikeB-	congrats dudanogueira
04:43	jsgotangco	seems not here
04:43	dudanogueira	thank you all! Soon i'll be here again asking for a maling for the ubuntu games and sharing some other news :)
04:43	mako	ok, moving on
04:43	mako	the ominimously named, slackwarelife...
04:43	jsgotangco	lol
04:43	slackwarelife	I'm Massimo, I'm a Italian lan admin, I work in a Banck and I have started to use linux 5 years ago with Red Had. After I met Slackware using server and there was a big love. Now I'm helping in launchpad answer (I'm a member of Ubuntu support team) and I try to manager some bug. This is my wiki page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Slackwarelife (The first part in Italian, the second in English). Sorry for my Engl
04:44	slackwarelife	I write this before, hi all
04:44	mako	is it possible to grant membership on the condition of a nick change ;)
04:44	dholbach	hehe
04:44	jsgotangco	lol
04:44	mako	nah, slackware was my first too :)
04:44	dholbach	what about bddebian then? ;-)
04:45	mako	my first love.. the only problem was finding 50 floppy disks :)
04:45	dudanogueira	slackware, as jono saw, is a very strong community here in brazil nowdays
04:45	jono	indeed
04:45	dholbach	slackwarelife: you are quite busy on the answers tracker it seem
04:45	slackwarelife	mako: I start with Slack my linux experience, I love it too
04:45	jsgotangco	impressive karma
04:45	jsgotangco	19205 in answer tracker
04:46	mako	this is true, almost all answers
04:46	slackwarelife	dholbach: I like to help who I can
04:46	jsgotangco	but there has been a flurry of activity yetersday
04:46	mako	slackwarelife: you seem to do a pretty impressive job of it :)
04:46	mako	slackwarelife: how long have you been involved in ubuntu?
04:46	slackwarelife	mako: I do all I can. Yesterd my wark was very big
04:47	slackwarelife	mako 3 weeks
04:47	mako	slackwarelife: ok, i'm going to ask that you come back in a couple months
04:47	mako	slackwarelife: the requirement for membership is significant and sustained contributions
04:47	mako	you've got hte first part, but not the second yet
04:47	mako	i presonally like to see at least 3 months of contributions to the project
04:48	mako	we want members to people who have put in a long term invement and gotten to know people, etc etc
04:48	slackwarelife	mako: ok, I understand
04:48	mako	slackwarelife: so my advice would be, KEEP IT UP! :)
04:48	mako	you're doing a great job
04:49	dholbach	slackwarelife: I'm very happy to see you helping out with answers and bugs, but I agree with mako.
04:49	mako	lets see you in a couple months and, if your history is any indiciation, it will be a very easy decision :)
04:49	mako	slackwarelife: cool, see you soon!
04:49	mako	Knightlust: you around?
04:49	Knightlust	My name is Dax Solomon Umaming. Been using Ubuntu since 2005 (Hoary). I'm most involved in advocacy. Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DaxSolomonUmaming Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~knightlust
04:49	jsgotangco	same here, keep up those answer tracker performance
04:50	mako	Knightlust: if your full name really Dax Solomon Umaming?
04:50	Knightlust	yes
04:50	mako	because i have to say, that's the coolest name ever :)
04:50	jsgotangco	lol
04:51	mako	Knightlust: you're lucky
04:51	Knightlust	mako: my dad's a hippie, that;s why
04:51	mako	i get stuck with the Benny Hill's name.. you don't want to know about my father ;)
=== Jucato cheers for Knightlust's local FOSS advocacy and training projects
04:51	kjcole	We had a guy working here named DejaVu Harmony...  Seriously.
04:52	dholbach	Knightlust: it seems you're involved in a lot of different Launchpad teams - what have you been focusing on?
04:52	jsgotangco	Knightlust: coming from Baguio city, i am not surprised
04:52	`23meg	kjcole, that's more like a font name :)
04:52	Knightlust	kubuntu a few months and laptop. but now i'm really into xubuntu and edubuntu
04:53	Knightlust	well mostly xfce on edubuntu
04:53	jsgotangco	can you elaborate more on your community contribution?
04:53	dholbach	Knightlust: did you chat with ogra and janimo/gpocentek already?
04:54	Knightlust	I'm now involved with the government of baguio. we'll be installing LTSP on edubuntu in the next few months
04:54	Knightlust	elections in the philippines, got it easy with the politicians
=== dudanogueira need to go. Thank you all!
04:54	Knightlust	dholbach: not yet
04:55	jsgotangco	"got it easy with politicians" ?
04:55	Knightlust	i actually got back from a talk. engineering society of saint louis university, 2 hours talk a while ago
04:56	ogra	Knightlust, oh, i'd appreciate if someone could care for the xfce stuff we have on the edubuntu addon CD now :)
04:56	Knightlust	jsgotangco: it's easy convincing them, they need my vote
04:56	ogra	feel free to pop in to #edubuntu at any time :)
04:56	Knightlust	will do ogra
04:56	ogra	:)
04:56	jsgotangco	Knightlust: i am not sure I'd like to take that in a nice way
04:57	sabdfl	+1 from me, belatedly, for dudanoguiera, for contributions to the IRC, lists and local team building
04:57	Knightlust	hehe, well, they love to take credit for it. and Gov. Domogan loved the idea
04:58	sabdfl	mako: which TZ are you in?
04:59	sabdfl	+1 from me for slackwarelife, on the back of a superb contribution to community support and QA
05:00	sabdfl	oh, noting the 3 week track record, support the suggestion to come back in a month or so
05:00	mako	sabdfl: utc-4
05:00	slackwarelife	sabdfl: thanks, but i understand mako's idea
05:00	Belutz	jsgotangco, have a time to chat? :)
05:01	jsgotangco	Belutz: feel free to PM
05:01	Belutz	jsgotangco, ok
=== BenC muscles in for the kernel team meeting
=== Belutz praise sabdfl :D
05:01	MikeB-	+1 for me Knightlust, if it is not too late, seem to be lagging
05:01	mako	no, we didn't decide on Knightlust
05:01	BenC	you guys take your time though, we have a light agenda
05:02	mako	at least lets finish with Knightlust
05:02	sabdfl	Knightlust: how long have you been contributing to the project?
05:02	mako	Knightlust: are you associated with a loco?
05:03	Knightlust	since January 2007, but my previous work at a call center, its' 2 years but not really focused into Ubuntu
05:03	Knightlust	in our call center, we focus on all distros.. mako: ubuntu-ph
05:05	jsgotangco	well what i can say about Knightlust is that he has been very enthusiastic on helping out to organizations that need some sort of orientation towards ubuntu or free software
05:05	dholbach	it seems that most of your advocacy actions will be in the next weeks
05:06	jsgotangco	that as well
05:06	jsgotangco	from what I know, he has been pretty involved in having good webcam support
=== mako nods jsgotangco
05:07	dholbach	Knightlust: have you been involved with ubuntu-ph for your advocacy work?
05:08	Knightlust	yes, my work at our lady of lourdes college
05:09	dholbach	have you been working together with other team members for the presentations?
05:10	Knightlust	dholbach: no, i got them mostly from the research and the presentation wiki
05:10	mako	dholbach: yeah,  that's what i'm trying to get at
05:10	mako	you've obviously done great work
05:11	sabdfl	+1 from me for knightlust
05:12	MikeB-	+1 for knightlust
05:12	mako	yeah +1 fro mme
05:12	jsgotangco	i would give my +1 as well as I've seen him take action effectively, but am not sure about the politicians thing ;-)
05:12	mako	Knightlust: but i think your work will benefit from hooking up with others more frequently
05:13	mako	jsgotangco: we can each have our own battles :)
05:13	dholbach	+1 from me too
05:13	Knightlust	mako, will do that
05:13	mako	since there's another meeting scheduled here, it might be worth postponing the last two on the list
05:13	jsgotangco	i just don't like the idea, we just had our elections yesterday, and its not really a pretty sight
05:13	Daviey	mako, :(
05:13	nealmcb	:(
05:13	dholbach	and it'd be nice to hear how your presentations go
05:13	`23meg	:( indeed
05:13	Knightlust	thanks all
05:14	mako	Daviey and `23meg, i guess that's you
05:14	`23meg	yep :)
05:14	nealmcb	Again, sorry to miss my spot earlier - it's early here....
05:14	jsgotangco	and nealmcb
05:14	Daviey	mako, one of my supporters has made a special effort to be here - late for a new job! :(
05:14	mako	well, you'll be first next time :)
05:14	mako	Daviey: we're already 15 minutes into another meetings time
05:14	`23meg	I think the kernel team isn't in much hurry
05:14	kjcole	Ta-ta then...
05:14	superm1	BenC, would it be okay to at least squeeze one more?
05:15	mako	superm1: two more, and with our current timing that might be half an hour
05:15	BenC	I think we can do with 30 minutes for our meeting, just wondering if there's anyone waiting for it besides the ones that are paid to :)
05:15	zul	me but I can wait
05:16	mbt	Same here.  I just like to watch.  :)
05:16	superm1	me, i'm a bit late for work in trying to wait on this -
05:17	BenC	How about this, I'll move kernel team meeting to #ubuntu-kernel, you guys finish up with CC, that's more important
05:17	mako	BenC: ok
05:17	mako	BenC: thanks for being accomidating
05:17	BenC	no problem
05:18	mako	`23meg: go, quickly
05:18	`23meg	Hello. I'm a 26 year old hybrid of a freelance designer, graduate student and starving artist living in stanbul, Turkey. I've been using Ubuntu full time since the mid-Warty period, and my most significant contributions have been providing support and writing guides in the forums, where I signed up in March 2005, and doing translations in Rosetta. I'm also one of the leaders of the newly formed Forum Ambassadors team, which is working
05:18	`23meg	on improving the connection between the forums and the rest of the community.
05:18	mako	i need to disappear in -15 minutes
05:18	`23meg	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MuratGunes
05:19	jsgotangco	any forum ambassadors advocating for `23meg
05:19	mako	holy crap, that's a lot of posts to the forums
05:19	`23meg	:)
05:19	MikeB-	I would like to say that 23meg is one of the true leader in the forums. He does a fantastic job there
05:19	dholbach	mako: yeah, definitely agreed
05:20	mako	`23meg: i'm impressed with the bredth of your contributions, and with the depth of your work in the forums
05:20	dholbach	`23meg: you want to join the MOTUs? anything you'd like to work on?
05:20	mako	any other testimonials?
=== PriceChild cheers for `23meg about work on the forums.
05:21	Hobbsee	from what i see, doing a bit fo FA stuff, he seems pretty clueful
05:21	PriceChild	Very active member, helpful :)
05:21	mako	or other people from the forums that can speak to the nature of `23meg's contributions as a hole
05:21	jsgotangco	"hole"
05:21	nealmcb	sounds more like a mountain than a hole
05:22	mako	whole, whole
05:22	`23meg	dholbach, I'm planning to look into stuff missing from Universe that gets popular requests in the forums; whatever part of it I can maintain
05:23	dholbach	`23meg: let me know how your way into MOTU goes :-)
05:23	sabdfl	+1 from me for `23meg on forums contribution!
05:23	`23meg	dholbach, will do :)
=== jsgotangco is happy to vote +1 as well for forum leadership and contribs
05:23	dholbach	+1 from me too
05:23	MikeB-	+1 for me, only because I can't give a +2 or more
05:23	dholbach	MikeB-: hehe
05:23	`23meg	:) thanks everyone.
05:24	Daviey	me?
05:24	mako	well +1 from me, not a hard decisoin
05:24	mako	Daviey: yes, you're up
05:24	sabdfl	Daviey: fire away :-)
05:24	Daviey	Hi, I'm Dave Walker and i would like to be considered to become a Ubuntu Member.  My wikipage is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/davewalker .  I'm currently involved mainly with the Mythtv for Ubuntu and actively contribute to my LoCo (Ubuntu-uk).  Currently I'm No2 contributor to #ubuntu-uk (I'm sure popey is a bot).   I also contribute towards advocacy towards FOSS with my highlight being a recent letter being printed in a UK national newspaper.
05:24	nealmcb	mako: and if there is time, me also?
=== orestesmas [n=orestes@oersted.upc.es] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:24	Daviey	Everything else should be on the wiki :)
05:25	Daviey	popey couldn't be here, but sang a song for me (scroll up)
05:25	mako	nealmcb: we'll see
05:25	mako	popey: i saw it
05:25	MikeB-	Daviey: I saw it
05:25	mako	sorry, Daviey i aw it
05:25	loudmouthman	And the Loudmouthman chimes in with Daviey is a fine addition and exemplary community member to the UK and UK irc group.
05:26	Daviey	(and the UK in general) :)
05:26	mako	anyone else from the uk loco
05:26	superm1	Daviey has been a great help with the -mythtv team and newly starting mythbuntu team as well
05:26	dholbach	Daviey: you're part of ubuntu universe contributors? what have you been up to? also the BugSquad - how did it go in there?
05:26	Daviey	mako, I think only popey and loudmouthman are aware I'm standing
=== loudmouthman looks at Daviey, funny I thought you were in a chair, hmm okay !
05:27	loudmouthman	whoops wrong channel !
05:27	superm1	these last few months he's in the channel as much as possible helping out with support to users coming in and providing more ideas for the team
05:27	Daviey	dholbach, At this stage i have only contributed one package of my own work, but have worked on joint efforts for some other packages
05:28	dholbach	Daviey: great, which one is that? have you helped out with reviewing or how have the joint efforts worked out?
05:28	Daviey	dholbach, There is a link at the bottom of the wiki to the package.
05:29	dholbach	ah ok
05:29	dholbach	what about the bugsquad? what did you do in there? did you find it easy to contribute?
05:29	Daviey	not at all!  It can be quite difficult the interact with the bugreporter
05:30	Daviey	Especially trying to get dumps and other crash reports from users
05:32	mako	well, you've done a wide variety of different types of work and have been around and active for a long time
05:32	sabdfl	Daviey: do you have any feedback on tools we can build to improve that, for example, apport?
05:32	mako	i'm happy with membership, +1 from me
05:32	superm1	Daviey,  has been quite instrumental in mythbuntu's start, and managed to go the extra mile in getting us our domain.  He ended up having to phone someone half way across the world who had already purchased it, and got him to join our team. (you can see the site in the works at www.mythbuntu.org )
05:32	X3N	I love Daviey
05:33	Daviey	sabdfl, certainly - i think if amport could be interactive
05:33	sabdfl	and could you give us a quick status report on mythbuntu?
05:33	Daviey	sabdfl, i suspect there are triagers who are happy to man 1-1 at inital report... We are a big enough community with timezones and such
05:33	superm1	atm we have an alpha ready
05:33	superm1	that works as a live cd frontend
05:33	superm1	and a basic frontend/backend installation
05:34	superm1	what remains is a lot of work to the installer
05:34	superm1	to handle the different types of installations
05:34	Daviey	sabdfl, we do have an alpha image avaliable - currently our next task is to get a grip on ubiquity installer
05:35	dholbach	Daviey: you also seem to be quite interested in asterisk - do you think there's anything we could improve there?
05:35	Daviey	dholbach, definitely - we need FreePBX in universe
05:35	dholbach	Daviey: it'd be nice to have a ubuntu-voip team taking care of that
05:35	Daviey	That is on my todo list of packages for MOTU
05:36	Daviey	dholbach, that's definitely a team i'd like to join.  Myth team might not like me sharing resources tho :)
05:36	superm1	:)
05:36	sabdfl	+1 from me for Daviey
05:37	jsgotangco	+1 from me as well for Daviey
05:37	dholbach	+1 from me too - it'd be nice to have your input for a ubuntu-voip team :)
05:37	Daviey	dholbach, also UDS seville VOIP improvements :)
05:38	MikeB-	+1 for me
05:39	Burgundavia	anybody working on asterisk is a +1 from me :)
05:39	dholbach	nealmcb: still around?
05:39	Daviey	Wooo... thanks guys!  And especially thanks to superm1 for making himself late for work to say what he did
05:39	dholbach	are you the last on our list?
05:39	nealmcb	yup
05:40	nealmcb	I woke up a bit late...
05:40	superm1	congrats Daviey .  catch up with you later
05:40	loudmouthman	Congrats Daviey
05:40	sabdfl	i have to step afk, good luck nealmcb, welcome aboard Daviey
05:40	nealmcb	I'm Neal McBurnett.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NealMcBurnett   I've been an Ubuntu user, promoter, contributor and distributor since the first release in 2004, on servers and desktops, for myself and several non-profit organizations. I've been active with *nix since 1977 (at Bell Labs) and have never had Windoze on my desktop.
05:40	nealmcb	if there's time...
05:40	Daviey	thanks sabdfl and cc
05:40	jsgotangco	1977! I was just 3 years old!
05:40	nealmcb	I know you want to go, mako....
05:41	nealmcb	jsgotangco: :-)
05:41	mako	nealmcb: it's fine. i brought my laptop to the meeting :)
05:41	nealmcb	I've been active in the Colorado LoCo, having helped Joey start it a year ago.  I've edited a bunch of wiki pages, authored the identity-selector spec and commented on others.  Some examples are linked to from my wiki page.
05:41	nealmcb	I'm now working on an Ubucon for Colorado, having helped organize two Barcamps, and beginning to get my feet wet with code contributions via bzr and Launchpad. I'd like to also use my enterprise Linux/Solaris experience from Internet2 and Bell Labs to contribute to the NetworkAuthentication efforts.  And I'm hoping to participate in a Colorado education conference where one of our members is presenting an Ubuntu demo: https://wiki.edubuntu.org/TIE
05:42	nealmcb	What I didn't do was get testimonials from joey stanford, nixternal, ajmitch or some others I can think of
05:42	nealmcb	I've been "slow but steady" in my contributions....
05:44	jsgotangco	anyone from the colorado team at the moment?
05:45	mako	it looks grewat
05:45	mako	but i would really like to hear from some people in your loco if that's where you locate most of your contributions
05:45	nealmcb	On his page, joey says "These folks are worth getting to know.    Neal McBurnett - Invented the Internet and speaks Esperanto  "
05:46	nealmcb	He looked my page over and gave me advice but I forgot to ask him for a testimonial....
05:46	dholbach	ajmitch might be well sleep now
05:46	Burgundavia	indeed
05:47	Burgundavia	nealmcb: any esperanto people here to comment on that translation work?
05:47	nealmcb	Mi dubas... :-)
05:47	nealmcb	I doubt it
05:47	dholbach	nealmcb: you're involved in a lof of specifications - are there any where you'd like to get involved in?
05:47	nealmcb	The network auth area is the place
05:48	Burgundavia	I see you contributed code to n-a
05:48	nealmcb	See e.g. my spec for identity-selector (above)
05:48	Burgundavia	anything else aside from the linked code?
05:48	nealmcb	Not yet in n-a
05:49	Burgundavia	hmm, not having any endorsements makes it hard to judge
05:49	nealmcb	ajmitch included it, but it was just better doc for the README :-)
=== nealmcb nods
05:49	mako	nealmcb: why don't you just have the loco people send testimonials
05:49	mako	i'm happy to make a decision by email
05:49	nealmcb	:-)
05:49	dholbach	and the network-authentication people too
05:49	mako	i don't suspect it will be problematic
05:49	mako	right
05:50	Burgundavia	that works for me as well
05:50	jsgotangco	same here should be easy enough
05:50	dholbach	yeah, I'm happy with that too
05:50	nealmcb	mail to who?
05:50	mako	nealmcb: just have folks email community-council@lists.ubuntu.com
05:50	jsgotangco	(not to mention i gotta crash as well)
05:50	mako	yeah, this meeting has gone on too long
05:50	nealmcb	will do - thanks - I'll let you go....
05:50	mako	thanks everyone
05:50	dholbach	thanks a lot nealmcb
05:50	mako	one last thing
05:50	dholbach	thanks
05:50	mako	next meeting
05:50	mako	two weeks from today, how about a bit later
05:50	mako	22UTC, lets say?
05:50	Burgundavia	that works
05:51	jsgotangco	should work for me if i get up early
05:51	mako	5/29 22UTC
05:51	dholbach	20 utc maybe? else it will be ~2-3 in the morning for me when the meeting finishes :)
05:51	mako	sounds good
05:51	mako	dholbach: 2 hours meeting
05:51	mako	i think we should get facist about this
05:51	dholbach	so 2 in the morning, when it finishes
05:51	mako	especially now that we're just a much larger group
05:51	mako	ok
05:52	mako	can 21UTC work?
05:52	dholbach	wfm
05:52	jsgotangco	ok not bad i will still be able to do my morning run
05:52	mako	dholbach: the whole point is to make it possible for different group
05:52	dholbach	yeah
05:52	mako	dholbach: like west coast users
05:52	dholbach	right
05:52	mako	USers
05:52	mako	not users
05:52	MikeB-	21 or 22 UTC works for me
05:53	jsgotangco	holy cow that's 5am for me heh we'll see
05:53	mako	alright, i'll mail seveas
05:53	mako	jsgotangco: yeah, you don't have to make it :)
05:53	mako	that's why we're a big group
05:53	jsgotangco	yup
05:54	mako	so, this is the first meeting with the new council, right?
05:54	jsgotangco	yup
05:54	dholbach	yeah :)
05:54	mako	well, then THANK YOU NEW COUNCIL
05:54	MikeB-	seems to be
05:54	nealmcb	Thanks to you all for volunteering!!
05:54	orestesmas	Thank you all from Orestes - CatalanTeam
05:54	rafael_carreras	thank you all
05:54	carlesoriol	Many thanks - catalan team
05:54	arualavi	thank you all!
05:54	papapep__	People from CC, many, many thanks from Catalunya -CatalanTeam
05:54	jsgotangco	our pleasure OLD COUNCIL
05:54	jsgotangco	:D
05:54	alex_muntada	thank you all and congrats to new members and teams!
05:54	mako	i think this is a quiet but a major major milestone for the council and for the community more broadly
05:54	MikeB-	thanks mako, and congrats to new Locos and members
05:55	boredandblogging	thanks everyone
05:55	mako	canonical employees are now in a minority on our highest governing board
05:55	jsgotangco	thanks good one
05:55	mako	;)
05:55	MikeB-	mako: lol
05:55	mako	thanks everyone, see you all next time
05:55	dholbach	:-)
05:55	dholbach	thanks - see you}}}
