{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   09:59 mdz      everyone present?
   === mvo is here
   09:59 Riddell  hi all
   09:59 Keybuk   I'm not
   09:59 Riddell  someone go and text Keybuk then
   10:00 iwj      Yes.
   10:00 dholbach I'm here
   10:00 BenC     I was here
   10:00 Kamion   here
   10:00 mvo      I think Keybuk is missing
   10:00 heno     here
   10:00 infinity I jiust dragged myself out of bed to be present, but am still sick as a dog and wishing I weren't. :)
   10:01 mdz      seb is on holiday, ogra and mvo were excused
   10:02 dholbach mvo is here :)
   10:02 mdz      doko,Mithrandir,Kinnison,JaneW?
   10:02 doko     here
   10:02 mdz      mvo: hey, you said you couldn't make it!
   10:02 mvo      mdz: I'm here, I said "I may not make it" ;)
   10:02 mvo      I left early and did not shower *phear*
   === mdz stands away from mvo
   10:03 dholbach YAY for mvo, he made it home living from the soccer court! :-)
   10:03 mdz      ah, tollef is excused as well
   10:03 mdz      busy night
   10:03 Keybuk   can I be excused too? :p
   10:03 BenC     did you fart? :)
   10:03 fabbione so let's keep it fast
   10:03 fabbione and we can all go back to sleep :)
   10:03 mdz      that's everyone we're expecting, then
   === BenC waits for it
   10:04 Keybuk   BenC: mmm, beans
   10:04 mdz      BenC: GO
   10:04 BenC     Kernel: Security updates for warty/hoary/breezy. New kernel upload with mostly bug fixes. Update of note, new ipw3945 driver is finally in.
   10:04 BenC     and that's all I have to say about that
   10:04 mdz      BenC: is ipw3945 fixed now?
   10:04 mdz      last I looked it was in-but-broken
   10:04 BenC     bugs are back at the top of my todo list
   10:04 BenC     broken?
   10:05 BenC     I still need to catch up on email, so that's news to me
   10:05 infinity What's broken about it?
   10:05 BenC     the only thing I know that's "broken" is that it isn't on the installer
   10:05 mdz      https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/35215
   10:05 Ubugtu   Malone bug 35215 in linux-source-2.6.15 "ipw3945 driver required for functionality on new Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Mini-PCI Express Adapters" [Normal,In progress]
   10:05 BenC     will check it out
   10:05 mdz      ok
   10:06 mdz      it would be worthwhile to spend some time with sfllaw talking about kernel bugs
   10:06 mdz      help him help you to stay on top of that bug list
   10:06 BenC     ok
   10:06 sfllaw   BenC: Hi.
   10:06 mdz      BenC: feeling OK about the kernel freeze date of May 18?
   10:07 mdz      that's to be a hard freeze, final kernel in dapper by then
   10:08 mdz      barring Very Bad Things
   10:08 BenC     mdz: yep
   10:08 pitti    not even security updates?
   10:08 BenC     sfllaw: /m me after the meeting, we can get something going
   10:08 mdz      the sooner the bug list can be correctly prioritized, the better chance we have of nailing the worst of the bugs in time
   10:08 mdz      BenC: thanks
   10:08 mdz      dholbach: next?
   10:08 dholbach Bugs: HugDay next week wednesday, slowly catching up with bugs, delighted to see more and more community members helping out, still the bug explosion is terryfying
   10:08 dholbach IconMission: getting more and more icons in, g-p-m upload next, sent (our bugs as) requests to Dave, will poke some more
   10:08 dholbach this week: MOTU mass bug filing about unmet deps, bug triage, random fixing
   10:08 dholbach next week: HUG DAY, more bug fixing, more bug triage
   10:08 dholbach question: Do we have the infrastructure for test-rebuilds already? Is that something I can push in the MOTU direction as well?
   10:09 mdz      dholbach: you've been planning the b^Hhug day with sfllaw, yes?
   10:09 mdz      in there a specific focus for this one?
   10:09 dholbach mdz: absolutely, jhe'll tell us more about it :)
   10:09 dholbach I didn't want to steal his show :)
   10:09 mdz      ok, we'll talk about it during his slot then
   10:09 dholbach :-)
   10:09 mdz      dholbach: how is your bug count doing?
   10:10 dholbach i think I have around 700 unread desktop-bugs mails
   10:10 mdz      and open desktop bugs?
   10:10 Surak    dholbach: I triaged some of them for you this week. hope it helps.
   10:10 dholbach thanks Surak
   10:10 iwj      I keep reading `sfllaw' as an abbreviation for Eben Moglen's latest excellent project.
   10:11 sfllaw   Well, I'm not Moglen's.  But my parents consider me an excellent project.
   10:11 dholbach mdz: 906 assigned, 2751 subscribed
   10:11 iwj      sfllaw: *grin*
   10:11 Keybuk   iwj: reminds me of a sneeze
   10:11 mdz      dholbach: eek.  approximately how many are serious and/or targeted for dapper?
   10:12 dholbach there are lots of duplicates, lots of old needsinfo and lots of already fixed ones
   === jjesse [n=jjesse@mail.ftpb.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:12 seb128   mdz: I think we are good on the dapper milestone list though ;)
   10:12 mdz      seb128: you are on holiday!
   10:12 seb128   ups
   10:12 seb128   right :)
   10:12 mdz      /kick seb128
   10:12 seb128   he
   10:12 dholbach 19-39 milestones
   10:12 mdz      ok, I'll review those next week
   10:12 dholbach and some have pending patches already
   10:12 seb128   I'm just here for the meeting and I'll go back to my holidays, don't worry ;)
   === dholbach hugs seb128
   10:12 mdz      thanks dholbach
   10:12 mdz      doko: next?
   === seb128 hugs dholbach
   10:13 doko     - openoffice.org: ia32 updates, OOo updated from ooo-build, new translations, two complete build sets uploaded, rosetta is importing the message strings. OOo now on the Xubuntu CD's. Now forwarding Ubuntu changes upstream. TODO's: Kubuntu love, -l10n packages with Rosetta data (hopefully LP doesn't check if the diff.gz is larger than the orig.tar.gz ;)
   10:13 doko     - fonts: spent some time with fontconfig configuration for OOo, waiting on feedback from Diziet (the idea is to never match DejaVu and Bitstream when asking for exact metrics for font replacements).
   10:13 doko     - printing: gnome-cups-manager updates, hplip updates, new ttf-dejavu with the most important font bug for our gnome guys fixed (touching circles) TODO's: g-c-m could need much more love from a gnome hacker (or a rewrite), upstream seems to be dead.
   10:13 doko     - other: various bug fixing, building OOo breezy packages with idle CPU cycles, azureus (weekend work)
   === pitti cheers doko for his g-cups-mgr work
   10:13 mdz      doko: are both oo.o and firefox happy with their fonts now?
   10:13 dholbach um... nobody answered my question - i guess i'll just talk to infinity and Kinnison about that later on
   10:14 doko     mdz: yes, but we could better, see (the idea is to never match DejaVu and Bitstream when asking for exact metrics for font replacements).
   10:14 pitti    doko: yes, g-c-m is indeed dead upstream
   10:14 mdz      dholbach: what question?
   10:14 dholbach about test rebuilds
   10:14 seb128   doko: printing has been moved to GTK for 2.10, I expect them to have stopped any print work on the other API to not have to do the work again
   10:14 seb128   (ie: libgnomeprint(ui) will be deprecated)
   10:14 dholbach apropos fonts: there's a new pango pending (just fyi)
   10:14 iwj      doko: Err, I seem to be missing that mail.  Let me check again.
   10:14 doko     ok, so just get it somewhat working ...
   10:14 mdz      doko: what's your plan regarding Kubuntu?
   10:14 doko     iwj: no, my pings during the last 48 hours ;-P
   10:15 iwj      doko: Yes, I don't have that mail.
   10:15 infinity dholbach: Sorry, I missed it.  We have test-rebuild magic, and it's being turned on.
   10:15 iwj      Oh.  IRC is not a reliable medium !
   10:15 mdz      is oo.o-kde in need of love?
   10:15 dholbach infinity: rock on!
   10:15 Riddell  on amd64 it is
   === dholbach hugs infinity
   10:15 doko     mdz: install it and check for the crashes, I never did see them with a KDE installation on top of Gnome
   10:15 iwj      doko: Want to chat now (well, when you're done with your report) in #ubuntu-devel or privmsg ?
   10:15 mdz      iwj: generally we do expect that if someone is logged into IRC, they will read messages addressed to them there (eventually)
   10:15 doko     iwj: sure, after the meeting
   10:16 mdz      doko: as far as Dapper, are you relatively satisfied with the printing packages now, after this last batch of updates?
   10:16 iwj      mdz: I do try to search for my nick when I arrive in the morning and periodically.
   10:17 mdz      dholbach: new bugfix pango, presumably?
   10:17 dholbach yeah
   === Kyral [n=kyral@ubuntu/member/kyral] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:17 dholbach I just wanted to tell doko beforehand
   10:17 doko     mdz: not yet, network printers could be better, naming of printers could be better (but seems to be major work), will address duplicate HP printers in the seleciton
   10:17 mdz      doko: are any of those regressions from breezy?
   10:17 pitti    ivoks did some nice work wrt network printers
   10:17 doko     dholbach: "interesting"
   === melon__ [n=melon@eog129.neoplus.adsl.tpnet.pl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:18 pitti    I still have to take a look at his patches
   10:18 dholbach doko: it fixes stuff, I know it means work for you.
   === Howdy125 [n=Howdy125@c-71-231-68-54.hsd1.or.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:18 pitti    mdz: the one doko mentioned aren't regressions, they have always been that bad IIRC
   10:18 doko     pitti: yes
   10:18 mdz      ok
   10:19 mdz      doko: thanks
   10:19 mdz      fabbione: next?
   10:19 fabbione * server-candy: Missing/buggy: apache2 for "central snakeoil SSL setup".
   10:19 fabbione * ubuntu-cluster: should be done. It needs one last global review before going gold.
   10:19 fabbione * last week: almost ill all week.
   10:19 fabbione * next week: X bug squashing.
   10:19 pitti    however, with a few easy changes, we can make network printers much nicer
   10:19 mdz      fabbione: what's wrong with apache2?
   10:19 fabbione mdz: the same it has been for the last 2 meetings.
   10:19 fabbione mdz: it needs ssl love
   10:19 fabbione and infinity has been ill too
   10:19 mdz      pitti: if it's straightforward and low-risk, just do it, otherwise send me details to discuss
   10:19 fabbione so nobody gave him love
   10:19 fabbione did i mention i hate X?
   10:20 fabbione if not. it's official... I hate X :)
   10:20 mdz      people who touch apache are dying
   10:20 mdz      fabbione: how are you feeling today?
   10:20 pitti    mdz: yes, it's easy, just a matter of time
   10:20 fabbione mdz: worked 12 hours more or less.. so i would say good... killed 20 bugs or so
   === zell1983 [n=zell1983@host42-123.pool875.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:20 zell1983 .
   10:21 mdz      fabbione: arrange to spend some time talking with sfllaw about X bug triage
   10:21 fabbione mdz: will do
   10:21 mdz      thanks
   10:21 mdz      heno: next?
   10:21 heno     * accessibility: working with Luke on broken config stuff seen in Live CD beta testing; did a fair bit of work with upsteam on shaping a new Orca and general a11y configuration system. Also wrote some specs for a11y SoC projects.
   10:21 heno     * winfoss: continued work on the kubuntu version; looking to upload on Monday
   10:21 heno     * other: some firefox bug triage
   10:22 mdz      heno: are there further accessibility fixes that you intend to land for dapper?
   10:22 dholbach enable brltty again - I have to do that
   10:22 dholbach and we're going to split the gnome-a11y-themes package
   10:22 heno     yes, some of the gconf setting don't quite work yet
   10:22 dholbach that's all I can think of for now
   10:22 mdz      brltty scares me
   10:22 heno     I think it's been submitted though
   10:23 dholbach (re: brltty - we have the memleak patch) and I asked Keybuk to look at udev rules for it
   10:23 infinity Oh, pff, it only ate 1.5GB of RAM in 2 days over here, that's not scary.
   10:23 Keybuk   you did, yes
   10:23 mdz      I don't think it should run by default
   10:23 mdz      only if the accessibility mode is enabled
   10:23 mdz      is that possible?
   10:23 dholbach ok, I'll talk with TheMuso to think how we achieve that in an easy way
   10:23 mdz      i.e., if the user boots the live cd in accessible mode and does an espresso install, they get it, otherwise no
   10:23 Keybuk   dholbach: the main problem with the rules you suggested is that it wouldn't ever stop
   10:24 mdz      ok
   10:24 mdz      heno: thanks
   10:24 mdz      infinity: next?
   10:24 dholbach Keybuk: ok, if you could explain after the meeting, that'd be nice
   10:24 infinity last week: was sick (still am) most of the week, but managed to keep on top of build failures, uploading some fixes, pinging maintainers about others, otherwise taking orange juice inteavenously and following doctor's orders (mostly)
   10:24 infinity next week: nail the samba segv I introduced in my last upload, attack some pending security updates, then hit my bug list and reduce it by half (or more), time permitting.
   10:24 mdz      infinity: what's the doc's prognosis?
   10:25 infinity I'm not dying, I just need to sleep and back away from the computer for a bit.  Upcoming weekend should solve that for good, I suspect.
   10:25 mdz      ok, rest up
   10:26 mdz      infinity: thanks
   10:26 mdz      iwj: next?
   10:27 iwj      Firefox: 1.5.0.2 finally uploaded following various faff.
   10:27 iwj      Evince vs firefox fonts problem: you'll have seen my uploads, perhaps, after moderately extensive delving into fontconfig and pango.  Anyone got any more feedback about this ?  The current situation is still not 100% correct but it gives the right outcome in most of the key cases AFAICT.
   10:27 iwj      Firefox: pango slowness: have `fix' script, just installing Dapper in various languages to test it.  I'm really looking forward to doing an install in Japanese or Chinese :-/.
   10:27 iwj      Firefox: other bugfixes will go in RSN, FYI.  If you have favourite bugs you want me to fix, please ping me about them and I'll put them on my list.  The Malone bug pile for Firefox is still rather unmanageable despite the very helpful triage assistance I'm getting.
   10:27 iwj      Ghostscript bugs: that'll be next weeks' task.
   10:27 iwj      AutomatedTesting,DeveloperDocumentation: on hold because I want to fix all the bugs I'm going to as soon as possible.
   10:27 iwj      UK public holiday this coming Monday.
   === Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   10:27 mdz      iwj: what's the basic issue with evince vs. firefox?
   10:27 mdz      they're both behaving fairly sanely for me at the moment
   10:27 iwj      This is the thing I invented anymetrics=1 for.
   10:27 mdz      ok, right
   10:27 iwj      Indeed, because of my fix :-).
   10:27 mdz      so printing vs. screen fonts
   10:27 iwj      Exactly.
   10:28 iwj      That's what doko wants to talk to me about, too.
   10:28 melon__  hp omnibook xe4500 hibernation/suspend makes display black. is there any link how to fix this (I've googled around with no luck)
   10:28 mdz      are there any test cases folks might be able to try?
   10:28 iwj      mdz: That's tricky.
   10:28 mdz      melon__: there's a meeting in progresss here (which is the purpose of this channel, not bug reports)
   10:28 pitti    melon__: #ubuntu, please, we are in a meeting
   10:28 mdz      melon__: try #ubuntu-laptop
   10:28 iwj      The best answer is to do all the weird things that only you do, and if they go wrong in a fonty way, get in touch.
   10:29 iwj      I seem to have started to `understand' how fontconfig `works' so I might be able to help with other kinds of things, although it's a bit of a swamp really.
   10:29 melon__  ok, thank you (sorry for interrupting)
   10:29 mdz      I think most of us print things so rarely that we don't notice these things so much
   10:29 iwj      mdz: Right, but previews count as printing for these purposes (well, for anymetrics=1, anyway, though of course gs and evince might use different fonts for the same file ...)
   10:29 mdz      iwj: it would be worthwhile to get in touch with epiphany upstream regarding that list of languages and how they chose it; seb128 may be able to help with that (AFTER his holiday)
   10:30 iwj      OK.
   10:30 iwj      I was going to deploy it with that list and see who complained.
   10:30 iwj      Omissions will be quite obvious I imagine.
   10:30 mdz      iwj: as you go through gs bugs, it's probably a good idea to subscribe ubuntu-printing to them, to group them with the other printing bugs
   10:30 iwj      The alternative would be a whitelist instead of a blacklist - ie list languages we know pangoless is safe with.
   10:30 seb128   iwj: epiphany upstream are on #epiphany (irc.gnome.org), you probably want to speak to chpe
   10:30 iwj      mdz: Willdo.
   10:30 iwj      seb128: Noted.
   10:31 mdz      iwj: thanks
   10:31 mdz      Kamion: next?
   10:31 seb128   (other way I'll be available after my holidays as pointed by mdz :p)
   10:31 Kamion   this-week: Renamed espresso to ubiquity, hopefully keeping most people relatively happy. Post-beta madness, fixing up lots of ubiquity bugs, especially partitioner-eats-your-disk; beta 2 nearly done.
   10:31 Kamion   next-week: High-priority ubiquity bugs (more partitioner crashes, mostly); go through Malone hoovering up patches I need to apply.
   10:31 Kamion   ue-partitioning-tool: I'd like to discuss deferring the remaining specced changes to the partitioner. Modulo crashes, the partitioner we have now at least structurally works, and I'm loath to mess around with its structure much more before release.
   10:32 mdz      Kamion: the rename seems to have gone rather quietly; is that a fair impression?
   10:32 Kamion   mdz: yep
   10:32 mdz      Kamion: how are you feeling about the ubiquity bug list?
   10:32 Kamion   the Germans complain they can't spell it mind
   10:32 Kamion   mdz: holding steady around 70 bugs, maybe 10-20 serious; I think I can get through the worst of them in the next two weeks
   10:32 pitti    we'll learn it :)
   10:33 mdz      it was a bit of a fright to learn that we had such a serious bug in beta that none of us saw
   10:33 iwj      How many eats-your-disk bugs were there ?
   === ranf [n=ralfm@dslb-084-058-167-106.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:33 Kamion   yes, definitely; I knew about the general bug but not its implications
   10:33 Kamion   iwj: just one, AFAIK
   10:33 Kamion   well, one root cause
   10:33 iwj      Oh, right.  Not _so_ bad then (unless it was your disk).
   10:33 Surak    Kamion: can I transfer all bugs assigned to espresso to ubiquity? there were some this week.
   10:33 Surak    from espresso to ubiquity, i mean
   10:33 Riddell  Kamion: beta 2 out tonight?
   10:34 Kamion   Surak: I already did so for nearly all of them; there's one left which I'll do now
   10:34 Kamion   Surak: feel free to reassign any further ones that arrive
   === zell1983 [n=zell1983@host42-123.pool875.interbusiness.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["L']
   10:34 mdz      Kamion: of the 70, you've mostly looked at all of them regarding their severity?
   10:35 Kamion   mdz: I've looked at all the bugs, but my mental notion of their severity isn't necessarily reflected in Malone; I'll try to rectify that ASAP
   10:35 mdz      ok
   10:35 mdz      Kamion, meet sfllaw ;-)
   10:35 Kamion   :-)
   10:35 sfllaw   Kamion: We've already met.
   10:35 sfllaw   Kamion: And please fix them.  It will be good for all of us.  :)
   10:35 mdz      thanks
   10:35 Kamion   the quality of bugs since I added that crash handler has risen dramatically, too, so I have medium-to-high hopes
   10:35 mdz      Keybuk: next?
   10:35 Keybuk   * udev: in good shape, not aware of any open bugs
   10:35 Keybuk   * initscripts: NFS mounting race condition, just got to move it to a network event, but want to make sure I don't break /usr as NFS; have plan
   10:35 Keybuk   * network-manager: been starting to go down the bug list and have tracked down a few of them, and getting the rest sent upstream
   10:35 Keybuk   * misc: been going through all the packages checking for /var/run and /var/lock issues and also looked for packages still using /etc/hotplug or shipping udev rules wrong, etc.
   10:35 Keybuk   * plans: start going through bugs in other packages looking for things I can fix
   === fabbione suggests X to Keybuk
   10:36 Keybuk   "X" ?
   10:36 fabbione xorg
   10:36 mdz      Keybuk: I was looking at that ifupdown "Network is down" bug the other day, the one with all the unrelated (and probably obsolete) reports of network interfaces not being brought up
   === Keybuk knows so little about X, I'm not sure I'd be any help
   10:36 mdz      Keybuk: is there an issue there?
   10:36 Keybuk   mdz: got a bug# to refresh me
   10:37 Keybuk   there isn't one on ifupdown
   10:37 mdz      I think it was on n-m or someplace else silly
   10:37 Keybuk   I fixed the one that was about network interfaces not being brought up
   10:37 mdz      it struck me as a tangled web that needed unweaving
   10:37 Keybuk   which was also the same bug that caused it to hang on boot at "Configuring network interfaces" sometimes
   10:37 Keybuk   I may have missed a dup or two of that
   10:38 Keybuk   it was evil
   10:38 doko     there was one nasty debhelper bug ignoring errors when servies are restarted on upgrade (means reupload of these packages is needed)
   10:38 Keybuk   a "minor" udev change we snuck in from upstream just before I froze it (so months ago) meant that ifup was called with the original name of an interface, not its renamed name
   10:38 mdz      this one looked different, though; it had lots of unrelated reports but the original issue wasn't clearly addressed
   10:38 Keybuk   hmm, I'll have to find that one -- if you come across it again, subscribe me to it and ping me on it
   10:38 mdz      Keybuk: bug 21563
   10:38 Ubugtu   Malone bug 21563 in dhcp3 dhcp3-client "Network doesn't come up after boot" [Normal,Needs info]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/21563
   10:38 mdz      you're already subscribed and have commented much
   10:39 Keybuk   oh, *that* one
   10:39 mdz      but I think it got lost in a sea of unrelated stuff
   10:39 Keybuk   yeah, that one we have *no* clue about
   10:39 Keybuk   we've had that since, oh, warty I think
   10:39 mdz      er, no, that's not the one I meant
   10:39 Keybuk   I certainly came across it in breezy
   10:39 Keybuk   oh
   10:39 mdz      ah
   10:39 mdz      bug 19740
   10:39 Ubugtu   Malone bug 19740 in dhcp3 dhcp3-client "unexplained failure to obtain DHCP address" [Normal,Needs info]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/19740
   === pitti suggests to go on, we are a bit short in time
   10:39 mdz      SIOCSIFFLAGS: Permission denied
   10:39 mdz      ...
   10:39 mdz      receive_packet failed on eth0: Network is down
   10:39 mdz      ...
   10:39 mdz      send_packet: Network is down
   10:39 mdz      that one
   10:39 Keybuk   mdz: yeah, that's still the general thought of bug
   10:39 mdz      pitti: yes, but we're also short on people, so it will go quickly :-)
   10:39 Keybuk   I frequently blame pitti <g>
   10:40 pitti    mdz: hm, right; so, sorry :)
   10:40 mdz      Keybuk: let's chat about it another time
   10:40 Keybuk   gah, we still have to confirm we want to subscribe
   10:40 doko     yeah, but pitti doesn't belong to the short people
   10:40 mdz      saw the NFS mount thing, that definitely needs addressing for the release (set the milestone if it isn't already)
   10:40 mdz      Keybuk: thanks
   10:40 mdz      Kinnison: next?
   10:41 pitti    he's alive again?
   10:41 Keybuk   Kinnison is very dead
   10:41 pitti    yesterday he was still ill
   10:41 Keybuk   <rjek> Poor Kinni.  He's got a chest infection.  Been given the largest possible dose of Amoxicillin, and he has to take 6 steriods a day for a week.
   10:41 mdz      oh, did I miss an email on that?
   === mvo wonders if the plague has come back
   10:42 zul      probably
   10:42 mdz      I don't see a mail, hrm
   10:42 mdz      Mithrandir: on to you, then
   10:42 mdz      er
   10:42 mdz      except that he's not here
   10:42 mdz      mvo: you're up
   10:43 mvo      Did:
   10:43 mvo      - uploaded the backported update-manager to breezy-updates
   10:43 mvo      - dist-upgrade testing (amd64, i386)
   10:43 mvo      - dist-upgrade tool work
   10:43 mvo      - bug triage/reporting/fixing
   10:43 mvo      - lots of cd testing
   10:43 mvo      - some apt work (merging/bugs overview/proxy issues)
   10:43 mvo      Will do:
   10:43 mvo      - more bugfixing/bug triage
   10:43 mvo      - some improvments to the upgrade tool (sources.list rewriting)
   10:43 mvo      Blocked:
   10:43 mvo      - sysadmin setup for the auto-dist-upgrade testing
   10:43 mdz      mvo: have there been any issues arising from the upgrade testing where we might want to customize the upgrade process further?
   10:44 mvo      mdz: yes, the sources.list rewriting needs some further love, I improved the mirror detection and will offer a fallback when no official sources was detected
   10:44 mvo      I use the mirror from wiki.ubuntu.com/Archive now
   10:44 mvo      to detect if its a official ubuntu source
   10:44 mdz      mvo: but no other obsolete packages to remove, etc.?
   10:45 mdz      mvo: and is the metapackage fixup code working well?
   10:45 mvo      mdz: it seems to be, the reports are encouraging
   10:45 mvo      when it fails it seems to fail because of sources.list rewriting problems
   10:45 mvo      and of course during post-inst failures
   10:45 mdz      mvo: the auto-dist-upgrade testing just needs a chroot, right?
   10:45 Keybuk   (interrupts) oh, and I hopefully solved the complaints about network intefaces getting odd names after upgrade -- iftab is "fixed" by the udev postinst (in a nice way)
   10:46 mvo      I found some amd64 specific problems recently I looked more into this
   10:46 mvo      can't test ppc myself
   10:46 mvo      mdz: yes, just a chroot and pulling a special package
   10:46 mdz      mvo: ping admins and let them know you are blocked; it should be quick to set up
   10:46 pitti    mvo: ping me for ppc stuff
   10:46 fabbione mvo: and the demotion thingy :)
   10:46 fabbione mvo: remind me tomorrow to test ppc
   10:47 mdz      Keybuk: iirc it was something like "turns wrong iftabs into correct iftabs" ;-)
   10:47 pitti    mvo: oh, is there work in progress for dealing with packages that become unsupported after dist-upgrade?
   10:47 mvo      fabbione: yeah, fabbione came up with the problem that packages moved from main to universe during the breezy->dapper will be considerd obsolete if the user only has main in his sources.list
   10:47 mdz      oh
   10:47 Keybuk   mdz: yeah  (mvo just reminded me -- I was going to put it in the update manager, but decided postinst was better)
   10:47 mdz      Kamion: I think we're due for an anastacia session
   === Kamion nods
   10:47 mvo      pitti: that is a special case of fabbiones problem, I think we can solve it with the same solution
   10:47 Kamion   I've been doing bits, but nothing concentrated
   10:47 Kamion   Scott has done a few bits too
   10:48 Keybuk   yeah, I've got the hang of this ftp stuff
   10:48 mdz      Keybuk: let's spend some quality time with anastacia
   10:48 Keybuk   when would you like to do that?
   10:48 mvo      pitti: fabbione had the idea to include a list of all demotinons so that we can tell the user about them
   10:48 mdz      it should be close to empty at this point, modulo some remaining xubuntu bits
   10:48 Kamion   Keybuk: PLAGIARISM
   10:48 pitti    mvo: right
   10:48 mdz      Keybuk: after the meeting, if you're staying up
   10:48 Keybuk   sure
   10:48 mdz      mvo: anything alarming on the apt bug list?
   10:48 Keybuk   Kamion: who am I plagiodfiodasjfdjksf(can't spell that one)ising?
   10:49 mvo      mdz: BADSIG errors from transparent/bad proxies
   10:49 mvo      that seems to be the only issue
   10:49 mvo      we are plagued by this since some time :/
   10:49 mdz      what can we do?
   10:49 Kamion   Keybuk: http://xanna.livejournal.com/51821.html
   10:49 mvo      stub is helping by testing my various patches
   10:49 Keybuk   Kamion: ahh, wrong window? :)
   10:49 mvo      mdz: not sure, I'm pretty sure we are rfc compliant and the proxy is not
   10:49 mdz      mvo: would it help at all to try to disable caching with cache-control entirely?
   10:50 Keybuk   Kamion: I'll paste that to Jen :p
   10:50 mvo      but that dosn't help a lot
   10:50 mvo      mdz: interesstingly not, stub has to run apt-get update twice (he is behing a very aggressive proxy apparently)
   10:50 Kamion   Keybuk: oh, whoops, yeah
   10:50 mdz      hmm, ok
   10:50 mdz      mvo: thanks
   10:50 mvo      mdz: he runs with -o Acquire::http::No-Cache=true
   10:50 mdz      ogra is out, but sent this:
   10:50 mdz      * general: beta preparation, manpages for ltsp, further work on the
   10:50 mdz      edubuntu getting started guide, still no final artwork yet (and a very
   10:50 mdz      unhappy community about the chalkboard decision :( ), beta2 preparation
   10:50 mdz      and tests, bug triage (dhcp, ltsp, edubuntu bugs), lots of community
   10:50 mdz      work, preparing the new edubuntu council
   10:50 mdz      * next-week: bughunt. more doc work, more bug triage, hopefully final
   10:50 mdz      artwork for edubuntu, first edubuntu council meeting, writing the tech
   10:50 mdz      chapters for the cookbook, checking the new edubuntu testplans with the
   10:50 mdz      new edubuntu test team.
   10:51 mdz      pitti: next?
   10:51 pitti    reducing-duplication: kdegraphics dropped imlib b-dep, which gets us rid of imlib (yay) and another gtk+1.2 r-dep. no other progress; php5-sqlite transition to sqlite3 still needs to happen for dapper
   10:51 pitti    general stuff done in the past two week:
   10:51 pitti    * security updates: firefox, mozilla, mysql, ruby, cyrus-sasl; coordinated kernel update with BenC, will release probably tomorrow
   10:51 pitti    * bug triage and bug fixing
   10:51 pitti    * much cupsys love
   10:51 pitti    * new language packs
   10:51 pitti    * CD testing
   10:51 pitti    * cleaned up main inclusion queue a fair bit
   10:51 pitti    plan for next week:
   10:51 pitti    * celebrate EOL of Warty :)
   10:51 pitti    * tbird security update
   10:51 pitti    * torture infinity with PHP security update
   10:51 pitti    * bugs, bugs, bugs
   10:51 mdz      pitti: is gtk1.2->universe a possibility for dapper?
   10:52 pitti    mdz: nontrivial
   === mvo hugs pitti for EOL of warty
   10:52 pitti    mdz: libdv and some odbc stuff still need it
   10:52 infinity php5-sqlite requires me to do a couple of sync from Debian, and a bit of futzing, but it'll be trivial.
   10:52 infinity s/sync/syncs/
   10:52 pitti    mdz: libdv, libiodbc2, smpeg, xmms
   10:52 pitti    xmms can be demoted, the rest is some serious work
   10:53 mdz      ok, best to leave it for now, then
   10:53 doko     pitti: can't the odbc stuff be splitted into two sources?
   === freemanen [n=freemane@c83-248-211-3.bredband.comhem.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:53 mdz      pitti: is the new cups working out ok?  any testing feedback?
   10:53 pitti    mdz: yes, it didn't break the world at least
   10:53 mdz      pitti: gee, that's very encouraging to hear post-beta ;-)
   10:53 pitti    mdz: I got a fair number of new bug reports, but I don't know whether they already applied to earlier versions
   10:54 mdz      pitti: language packs seem to be looking good according to the stats
   10:54 pitti    mdz: I think I can do something about some bugs, when I find some time after tbird, and such
   10:54 mdz      I wonder how we are doing with translations in the default desktop
   10:54 pitti    mdz: indeed; I'm working with carlos for more convergence
   10:55 pitti    oh, I need to fix some packages for building POTs; help would greatly be appreciated
   10:55 mdz      pitti: it's a short list, yes?
   10:55 pitti    mdz: 15ish
   10:55 janimo   pitti, the 6 xfce ones I'll do asap
   10:55 mdz      mvo: can you help with the .pot fixes?
   10:56 pitti    great
   10:56 mvo      mdz: sure
   10:56 mdz      mvo: thanks
   10:56 pitti    coping with the rest will be relatively easy, and it's nonintrusive, so I'll defer it a bit
   10:56 mdz      thanks pitti
   10:56 mdz      Riddell: next?
   10:56 Riddell  done: bugfixes, kde ubiquity, beta 1 & 2 testing, new koffice
   10:56 Riddell  todo: kde ubiquity, bugfixes, make sure i18n works for kubuntu-docs
   10:56 Riddell  good news: KDE now largely working with CUPS 1.2, thanks to mh21
   10:56 pitti    I urgently need to find time to look into some dhcp bugs
   10:56 mvo      pitti: let talk about it after the meeting (or tomorrow morning)
   10:56 mdz      Kamion,Riddell: how is kde ubiquity looking?
   10:57 pitti    Riddell: I'll tell mh21 the great news :)
   10:57 Riddell  mdz: working well for me
   10:57 Riddell  mdz: still a number of things to fix, but certainly on target
   10:57 mdz      Riddell: there are a lot of untriaged kubuntu bugs around
   10:57 Riddell  qstring/unicode is a bit of a mystery I need to solve
   10:57 mdz      Riddell: I suggest a session with sfllaw to see how he can help
   10:58 Riddell  mdz: about 25 marked as major
   10:58 mdz      Riddell: there seem to be a lot which haven't been looked at yet, so it's hard to say how many serious ones there could be
   10:58 Riddell  main problem app is knetworkconf which Lure has been doing some fixes for
   10:58 Kamion   mdz: I fixed up a fair few over the last couple of days, since I was getting the bugs anyway and wanted to have a clue about them
   10:59 Kamion   Riddell: I think I've mostly got a handle on the qstring/unicode thing now - I don't really like how pyqt does it but I think at least I know how to handle it now
   10:59 Riddell  mdz: the serious ones should have a priority set
   10:59 mdz      Riddell: you know that priority is going away, right?  better to use severity (since that's usually more meaningful anyway)
   11:00 Riddell  or do I mean severity?  The one with Major/Critial/Wishlist etc
   11:00 mdz      yes, severity :-)
   11:00 mdz      thanks Riddell
   11:00 mdz      seb128: YOU ARE ON HOLIDAY
   === seb128 [n=seb128@ubuntu/member/seb128] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
   11:00 pitti    you scared him
   11:00 mdz      rightly so
   11:00 doko     we should have kicked him ;)
   11:00 mdz      so last order of business, everyone welcome sfllaw
   11:01 Riddell  hi sfllaw
   11:01 sfllaw   Hi everybody!
   === dholbach pets his seb128 plush figure.
   11:01 zul      hi simon
   11:01 pitti    sfllaw: welcome
   11:01 doko     sfllaw: welcone
   11:01 doko     s/n/m/
   11:01 sfllaw   Did:
   11:01 sfllaw   - Bug triage
   11:01 sfllaw   - Talking to #ubuntu-bugs volunteers
   11:01 sfllaw   - Wiki editing
   11:01 sfllaw   - Learning about my surroundings.
   === Sura1 [n=ubuntu@20150104064.user.veloxzone.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:01 sfllaw   Will do:
   11:01 sfllaw   - More of the above
   11:01 Kamion   hello QA man extraordinaire
   11:01 sfllaw   - Next week, we'll be having a HUG day that concentrates on crasher bugs.  We're planning on using GDB and valgrind.
   11:01 mvo      hello sfllaw
   11:01 sfllaw   Please feel free to chat with me about how our new QA department can make life easier for you.  I can't promise miracles, but I'll do my best.
   11:01 sfllaw   Also, I also want to thank dholbach, who's done a great job looking out for me, as I bumble around.
   11:01 Keybuk   sfllaw: welcome
   === Sura1 is now known as Surak
   11:01 dholbach sfllaw: It was a pleasure. It's good to know you're around.
   === raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:02 pitti    Kamion: can you please give a quick status about new breezy images? still blocked by some soyuz issue?
   11:02 ajmitch  sfllaw: welcome :)
   11:02 mdz      simon will be working through our unconfirmed bugs and culling duplicates, set severities, and otherwise separating the wheat from the chaff
   11:02 sfllaw   dholbach: Was?  I'm still going to bother you for help.
   11:02 dholbach sfllaw: Don't worry.
   11:02 sfllaw   mdz: Yup.  That's the plan.
   11:02 sfllaw   I do a little bit of verification on Unconfirmed bugs to see if I can quickly confirm them, or find them in other BTSes.
   11:02 Kamion   pitti: need to check up with cprov/Kinnison whether it can deal with d-i uploads to pockets now; after that I plan to bodge katie until she submits
   11:03 mdz      and we're out of time
   11:03 sfllaw   We have a lot of unconfirmed bugs right now, so I can't dig too deeply.
   11:03 mdz      so, thanks everyone
 
</pre>
