{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
(04:03:29 PM) mdz: we're missing a few people but need to get started
(04:04:12 PM) mdz: welcome all

(04:04:14 PM) mdz: heno: you're up first
(04:04:43 PM) heno: * Approved: access-gdm, braille-support, color-filters, common-at-conf, orca-laptop-support
(04:04:43 PM) heno: * Drafting: multilingual-speech -- this will be taken forward by Gilles Casse from Oralux. I've also created orca-espeak as a prerequisite to this.
(04:04:43 PM) heno: feisty-speakup -- Depends on involvement from the speakup community. The next week or so will tell.
(04:04:43 PM) heno: * Abandoned: atspi-testing-by-default -- seb128 had issues with this and I see his point.

(04:05:10 PM) cjwatson: atspi-testing-by-default> yeah, I wasn't all that keen either
(04:05:28 PM) heno: yeah, I can see why
(04:05:29 PM) mdz: heno' apart from atspi-*, are those targeted for feisty?
(04:06:04 PM) heno: oh, I don't think so. Need to look at how LP does that
(04:06:31 PM) mdz: heno: ok, please see that the ones which should be on the roadmap are targeted. the link is labeled 'set release goal' I think
(04:06:43 PM) heno: I'll do that now, thanks
(04:07:11 PM) mdz: heno: are there assignees for all of those?
(04:07:33 PM) heno: all except the feisty speakup one
(04:07:41 PM) heno: which is still uncertain
(04:07:56 PM) heno: I'm assignee for most of them
(04:08:17 PM) mdz: ok; if you can find someone who will aim for feisty, then go ahead and target it, otherwise leave it off

(04:08:34 PM) mdz: fabbione: next
(04:08:43 PM) fabbione: feisty-toolchain (approved): fixed a couple of minor glibc things.
(04:08:43 PM) fabbione: sparc64-installer (approved): not started. Waiting Herd 1 to settle before starting on it.
(04:08:43 PM) fabbione: spart64-niagara-ssl-accelerator (approved): wrote down some pseudo code and read a few times the hw specs to understand how it is supposed to work. This should be object of real coding during sparc sprint in Seattle.
(04:08:43 PM) fabbione: integrity-check (approved): fixed the infrastructure to go https://. waiting Herd 1 and d-i merge before moving it in main/cd.
(04:08:43 PM) fabbione: ubuntu-feisty-ha-cluster (approved): extremely good progress here. Received even emails from IBM India that confused us as upstream. OCFS2 has been updated and needs testing. GFS1 has been updated to the new FS API but it's not working properly (needs fixing). GFS2 has been updated and it's working almost ok. It fixes a bunch of problems from edgy but it seems i am still one of the few that can crash it :)
(04:08:51 PM) fabbione: sparc64-64bit-apps and sparc64-desktop: left to the community. no progress.
(04:08:53 PM) fabbione: Done
(04:08:55 PM) fabbione: * SRU for lvm2 completed.
(04:08:57 PM) fabbione: * working on SRU for mdadm in edgy (almost ready).

(04:09:11 PM) mdz: fabbione: what are the dates for the sprint again?
(04:09:40 PM) fabbione: mdz: 16 -> 23 Dec.
(04:10:08 PM) fabbione: mdz: 16 is fly out so nothing will happen other than sitting 12 hours on a plane ;)
(04:10:31 PM) mdz: what could be more fun?
(04:09:13 PM) cjwatson: fabbione: d-i merge is done
(04:09:51 PM) fabbione: cjwatson: yes i saw it but it was too late today to start :)
(04:10:02 PM) cjwatson: right, just saying you aren't waiting for it any more :-)
(04:10:06 PM) cjwatson: got to defend my honour etc.
(04:10:30 PM) fabbione: cjwatson: your honour is untouchable d-i god
(04:10:38 PM) mdz: fabbione: how does sparc look for herd 1?
(04:10:47 PM) fabbione: mdz: i am running it on both my machines
(04:10:54 PM) mdz: fabbione: I mean installability
(04:10:56 PM) fabbione: mdz: i only need to test the installer tomorrow
(04:11:27 PM) fabbione: mdz: i think it's blocked on d-i :P
(04:11:02 PM) cjwatson: sparc d-i FTBFS
(04:11:05 PM) cjwatson: I have a fix in hand
(04:11:18 PM) cjwatson: I'll upload it soonish so fabio can test
(04:11:36 PM) cjwatson: (but Mithrandir had said he didn't care so I was skipping it in favour of more urgent things)
(04:11:59 PM) mdz: ok, we'll get a full herd 1 update from Mithrandir a bit later
(04:12:11 PM) mdz: fabbione: thanks

(04:12:19 PM) mdz: dholbach: next
(04:12:26 PM) dholbach: Done:
(04:12:26 PM) dholbach: * merges
(04:12:26 PM) dholbach: * started bug mailbox cleaning *whine*
(04:12:26 PM) dholbach: * gnome updates
(04:12:26 PM) dholbach: Todo:
(04:12:26 PM) dholbach: * implement top prio art builder goals
(04:12:28 PM) dholbach: * more bug cleaning
(04:12:30 PM) dholbach: * GNOME 2.17.3
(04:12:32 PM) dholbach: * more merging
(04:12:34 PM) dholbach: Specs:
(04:12:36 PM) dholbach: * art-builder-improvements: approved, started.
(04:12:38 PM) dholbach: * feisty-telepathy: approved, started: landell and telepathy-wilde still need packaging.
(04:12:40 PM) dholbach: * code-review: pending approval, needs one TB sign-off.
(04:12:42 PM) dholbach: * motu: pending approval, needs one TB sign-off.

(04:13:01 PM) mdz: dholbach: is the art team actively using the art-builder repo now?
(04:13:21 PM) dholbach: mdz: no, they're not - Troy mailed on how to use bzr and I gave some instructions.
(04:13:41 PM) mdz: dholbach: please set me as approver on those TB specs so that I get email; I'll give them a second pass
(04:13:51 PM) dholbach: ok - thank you
(04:14:01 PM) mdz: dholbach: is there a wiki page for them which explains how to use it?
(04:14:21 PM) dholbach: mdz: no not yet, I'll do that.
(04:14:50 PM) dholbach: mdz: (done, set the approver of the specs)
(04:14:51 PM) mdz: ok
(04:14:56 PM) mdz: thanks dholbach

(04:14:59 PM) mdz: kylem: next
(04:15:11 PM) kylem: done:
(04:15:11 PM) kylem: * ubuntu-dapper-security.git: up to date with kernel-sec svn
(04:15:11 PM) kylem: * ubuntu-edgy-security.git: up to date with kernel-sec svn
(04:15:11 PM) kylem: * ubuntu-{dapper,edgy}-updates.git: enable bnx2 in nic-modules
(04:15:11 PM) kylem: * backported squashfs patch for dapper-security.git
(04:15:13 PM) kylem: * backported ocfs2 patches for dapper-security.git
(04:15:16 PM) kylem: * backported sky2 v1.9 for edgy-updates.git for #68338
(04:15:18 PM) kylem: * fixed up hdaps for edgy-updates.git
(04:15:21 PM) kylem: * looked into msi implications for #73815
(04:15:23 PM) kylem: * trawled stable trees for patches
(04:15:26 PM) kylem: * debugged why i can't push to rookery
(04:15:28 PM) kylem: todo:
(04:15:31 PM) kylem: * get the 4 trees uploaded
(04:15:33 PM) kylem: * look into getting git updated so i can push to rookery

(04:15:55 PM) fabbione: kylem: we will need ocfs2 also in edgy
(04:16:16 PM) kylem: fabbione, it's fixed in edgy, but i didn't have to do any work just apply it. in dapper i had to make sure it still worked because i had to hand apply.
(04:16:31 PM) fabbione: kylem: ah ok
(04:16:34 PM) fabbione: thanks
(04:16:38 PM) kylem: np
(04:17:01 PM) mdz: kylem: you're all set up with the access you need to do your work now, yes?
(04:17:12 PM) kylem: mdz, yup
(04:17:52 PM) mdz: kylem: ok, thanks
(04:17:55 PM) cjwatson: kylem: is bnx2 urgent? if so we need a d-i update
(04:18:10 PM) cjwatson: well, er, maybe, depending on the installation method
(04:18:11 PM) kylem: cjwatson, well, i'm sure elmo would appreciate it. :)
(04:18:25 PM) cjwatson: kylem: check with me tomorrow?

(04:17:54 PM) mdz: BenC: next
(04:18:00 PM) BenC: driver-device-manager: Approved, work in progress.
(04:18:00 PM) BenC: driver-backports: Pending Approval (just finished this last minute spec this morning).
(04:18:00 PM) BenC: Kernel work this past week:
(04:18:00 PM) BenC: * Lowlatency kernel/lrm added. Joy to the world.
(04:18:00 PM) BenC: * 2.6.19 released, our tree is moving on with 2.6.20 as planned.
(04:18:01 PM) BenC: * Merged some ubuntu kernel patches upstream.
(04:18:03 PM) BenC: Kernel work for next week:
(04:18:05 PM) BenC: * Initial 2.6.20 patches rolling into upstream. Will get out a new kernel based on this ASAP.
(04:18:07 PM) BenC: * Moving all linux-source-2.6.19 lp bugs to linux-source-2.6.20 after this upload. All traces of 2.6.19 will disappear.
(04:18:10 PM) BenC: * Revamp of the kernel-team git repository to enable better security patch handling (embargoed patches, etc), and better collaboration between myself and Kyle.

(04:18:28 PM) mdz: BenC: I'll have a look at driver-backports after the meeting
(04:19:08 PM) zul: heh dont forget me in the kernel-team git repository ;)
(04:19:36 PM) BenC: zul: likely it will be on a canonical machine, so might not get that
(04:19:41 PM) mdz: BenC: any kernel blockers for herd 1?
(04:19:56 PM) BenC: mdz: No, kernel is uploaded and stable for herd-1
(04:20:05 PM) mdz: and d-i up to date with it?
(04:20:07 PM) BenC: lrm and linux-meta synced as well
(04:20:13 PM) BenC: cjwatson: ^^
(04:20:22 PM) cjwatson: mdz: yes
(04:20:39 PM) cjwatson: done today
(04:20:40 PM) mdz: ok, thanks BenC
(04:20:41 PM) BenC: we have a few udeb quirks to work out, but colin says herd-1 is good
(04:20:41 PM) kylem: cjwatson, https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/73647 <- bnx2.
(04:20:42 PM) Ubugtu: Malone bug 73647 in linux-source-2.6.17 "Broadcom NetXtreme II BCM5708 not detected on install" [Undecided,Fix committed]
(04:21:07 PM) cjwatson: BenC: well, it builds anyway - haven't *tested* yet

(04:20:50 PM) mdz: mvo: next
(04:21:02 PM) mvo: Did:
(04:21:03 PM) mvo: - specs
(04:21:03 PM) mvo: - merges
(04:21:03 PM) mvo: - work on the auto-dist-upgrade testing (better control scipt, most-of-main install profile
(04:21:03 PM) mvo: - release-upgrader for edgy->feisty uploaded
(04:21:03 PM) mvo: - prototype/experiments for apt mirror method
(04:21:05 PM) mvo: - SRU xorg uploaded to edgy-updates
(04:21:07 PM) mvo: Will do:
(04:21:09 PM) mvo: - merges
(04:21:11 PM) mvo: - LSB face-to-face meeting berlin
(04:21:13 PM) mvo: Feisty specs approved:
(04:21:15 PM) mvo: - auto-dist-upgrade-testing, binary-driver-education, common-customizations, dist-upgrader-fixes, enabling-additional-components, dynamic-mirror-decisions, server-upgrade-tool, apt-sha256

(04:22:05 PM) mdz: mvo: auto-dist-upgrade-testisg doesn't seem to be targeted?
(04:22:12 PM) mdz: please target it to feisty
(04:22:15 PM) mvo: mdz: oh, I fix that
(04:22:59 PM) mdz: mvo: is the dist-upgrader ready for herd 1 testing?
(04:23:19 PM) mvo: mdz: yes, it should be fine
(04:23:35 PM) mdz: mvo: so we can include update-manager instructions in the announcement and start real world upgrade testing?
(04:23:53 PM) mvo: mdz: yes, I can update the announcement in the wiki
(04:23:58 PM) mdz: ok, great
(04:24:06 PM) mdz: thanks mvo

(04:24:09 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: next
(04:24:16 PM) Mithrandir: network-roaming: not started; will have to read up on this again, it seems to have changed a bit from the bof discussion
(04:24:20 PM) Mithrandir: changelog-closes-bugs: not started
(04:24:22 PM) Mithrandir: misc: herd 1 fixing, getting there slowly
(04:24:25 PM) Mithrandir: next week: herd 1 release, get changelog-closes-bugs done
(04:24:27 PM) Mithrandir: herd 1: getting there, was blocked on d-i stuff and some bits of cdimage not being updated to know that feisty is current. I'll roll CDs and test them tomorrow. Bug status isn't too good, I've tried to chase people up about the "later"-targetted bugs, but not being too successful about this. Ideas for making this happen better welcome

(04:25:29 PM) cjwatson: IME "later" has been entirely snowed under by merges and getting the world working at all
(04:25:30 PM) seb128: Mithrandir: when you say "next week", that's tomorrow? ;)
(04:25:40 PM) cjwatson: I think first milestone may have been a bit ambitious for "later"
(04:25:40 PM) mdz: cjwatson: agreed
(04:25:46 PM) Mithrandir: seb128: next week is what happens from today until next distro team meeting.
(04:25:55 PM) mdz: we should figure a realistic date for closing them, but it should be soon
(04:26:23 PM) cjwatson: although obviously ambitious targets mean we're more likely to hit the realistic targets
(04:26:24 PM) Mithrandir: cjwatson: I've intentionally not chased you down due to you being ideal in too many places already.
(04:26:39 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: perhaps mail -devel-announce with a summary of 'later' in concert with herd 1 and aim for herd 2
(04:26:47 PM) Mithrandir: mdz: I'll do that.
(04:27:10 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: do you have a date for herd 2?
(04:27:44 PM) Mithrandir: mdz: hmm, I thought we put those on the release schedule, but apparently not. I'll find some dates.
(04:28:01 PM) mdz: I thought so too, but they didn't make it into the version on the wiki
(04:28:15 PM) Mithrandir: dec 14th might work
(04:28:30 PM) mdz: I think we said every 2-3 weeks?
(04:28:55 PM) Mithrandir: yeah, but I'm on xmas vac from the 19th, and I suspect bits of the rest of the team will be starting their vacation that week too
(04:28:57 PM) mdz: at any rate, yes, please add milestone dates to the schedule
(04:29:02 PM) Mithrandir: I'll do that.
(04:29:26 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: please make notes about the edgy->feisty bits of cdimage etc. and add them to the checklist
(04:29:45 PM) Mithrandir: ReleaseProcess?
(04:29:45 PM) cjwatson: I think they're already there (just DIST=feisty)
(04:29:57 PM) cjwatson: but we'll check
(04:30:00 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: perhaps a new page linked from there, for opening a new release
(04:30:06 PM) cjwatson: hmm, no, perhaps not
(04:30:19 PM) cjwatson: I should probably write that; I know the guts of it
(04:30:20 PM) mdz: or on the page itself, I'm not fussed so long as they're not forgotten at the end of the previous release
(04:30:23 PM) mdz: cjwatson: please do
(04:30:32 PM) mdz: thanks Mithrandir
(04:30:34 PM) Mithrandir: ok, I'll do the skeleton, Colin did most of the meat of it this time around so he should fill it in.

(04:30:34 PM) mdz: seb128: next
(04:30:41 PM) seb128: Done:
(04:30:41 PM) seb128: * merges with Debian
(04:30:41 PM) seb128: * GNOME updates
(04:30:41 PM) seb128: * DesktopTeam talk for Ubuntu OpenWeek
(04:30:41 PM) seb128: * catching up with mails
(04:30:42 PM) seb128: * a bunch of edgy-proposed and edgy-updates updates
(04:30:44 PM) seb128: * bug triage, bug triage, bug triage
(04:30:46 PM) seb128: .
(04:30:50 PM) seb128: To Do:
(04:30:52 PM) seb128: * keep merges with Debian
(04:30:54 PM) seb128: * bug triage, bug triage, bug triage, bug triage, you got the idea by now :p
(04:30:56 PM) seb128: * GNOME 2.17.3
(04:30:58 PM) seb128: * get tracker uploaded
(04:31:00 PM) seb128: * updated desktop team
(04:31:02 PM) seb128: .
(04:31:04 PM) seb128: Specs:
(04:31:06 PM) seb128: * easy-codec-installation: approved, waiting on gstreamer upstream changes
(04:31:08 PM) seb128: * tab-consistency: pending approval, not started
(04:31:09 PM) seb128: * desktop-slab: review, that's a "small" spec, basically getting promotion for the gnome-main-menu package and maybe looking at a panel profiles switcher
(04:31:12 PM) seb128: "updated desktop team" = "update wiki for desktop team"

(04:31:25 PM) mdz: seb128: I'm not keeping up with so many SRUs
(04:31:43 PM) cjwatson: I'm trying to do them about weekly, so tomorrow is the next round
(04:31:51 PM) seb128: mdz: you only have to approve them
(04:31:59 PM) seb128: think how much work it takes me filling them :p
(04:32:01 PM) mdz: seb128: I need to read and understand them first :-)
(04:32:04 PM) ogra: only ...
(04:32:23 PM) seb128: mdz: most of mine are fairly easy patches though ;)
(04:32:25 PM) mdz: seb128: we should only be doing these for critical issues, since they create work for others
(04:32:46 PM) mdz: I would like to do them for trivial fixes as well, but in reality it may not be worth it
(04:32:49 PM) seb128: right, I've adjusted for that
(04:33:05 PM) cjwatson: seb's have been pretty good in that regard from what I've seen
(04:33:17 PM) seb128: we got some not so cool bugs to edgy though due to the short cycle and the flood of bugs we didn't manage very well before edgy
(04:33:19 PM) cjwatson: they've all been "oh god, we released with that?" to one extent or another
(04:33:24 PM) mdz: it looks like it from the ones I've read, but as I said, I'm behind
(04:33:54 PM) mdz: cjwatson: I'd like for you to take primary responsibility for those for now; perhaps you and pitti can discuss sharing it
(04:34:00 PM) seb128: I should probably not have done the "libgnomeprintui has 2 strings not translatable", I noticed today, it's not worth the work
(04:34:02 PM) cjwatson: mdz: ok
(04:34:07 PM) mdz: it's not realistic for me at present
(04:34:11 PM) seb128: but that was in the pipe before I really think about it
(04:34:22 PM) cjwatson: I would like people to put more effort into writing descriptions of bug impacts
(04:34:26 PM) cjwatson: (for SRUs)
(04:34:41 PM) cjwatson: I've had several where that wasn't really there and I had to go back and distill one
(04:34:41 PM) mdz: does that need more emphasis in the documentation?
(04:34:45 PM) seb128: cjwatson: what sort of description?
(04:34:48 PM) mdz: it was explicitly part of the process
(04:34:53 PM) cjwatson: seb128: how the bug affects users. see the wiki page
(04:34:56 PM) mdz: to describe the impact of the bug on users, justifying the update
(04:35:08 PM) mdz: "this bug causes babies to be eaten"
(04:35:25 PM) dholbach: or 250 duplicates in gnome bugzilla (and counting)
(04:35:31 PM) mdz: right
(04:35:32 PM) seb128: cjwatson: I've read the wiki page, I'm not sure if you want "what the bug is doing" or "how many people it's annoying"
(04:35:32 PM) ***dholbach hugs seb128
(04:35:33 PM) cjwatson: maybe just send out another reminder or something - I'll see what irritates me tomorrow
(04:35:41 PM) ***seb128 hugs dholbach
(04:35:47 PM) seb128: dholbach: I actually did some of those
(04:35:55 PM) seb128: "upstream has over 100 dups and asked us to push the crash fix"
(04:36:00 PM) cjwatson: seb128: I'd prefer its effect on end users; the latter doesn't hurt but the former is what we need to justify ourselves in the event that something goes wrong
(04:36:02 PM) mdz: seb128: both; "this bug causes foo to crash for many users"
(04:36:04 PM) dholbach: seb128: I know
(04:36:05 PM) cjwatson: "we chose to do this because ..."
(04:36:20 PM) seb128: cjwatson, mdz: ok, noted
(04:36:27 PM) mdz: it's not only for the benefit of the SRU team but to remind you to think about whether the work of an update is justified before you go further
(04:36:52 PM) mdz: seb128: we need to take a decision regarding beagle/tracker
(04:37:03 PM) mdz: seb128: what is upstream doing?
(04:37:07 PM) seb128: mdz: nothing
(04:37:14 PM) mdz: neither is going to be part of gnome?
(04:37:17 PM) seb128: beagle has not been proposed
(04:37:35 PM) seb128: and tracker will not be accepted since it has not being deployed by any distro yet and they are not sure about it neither
(04:37:53 PM) seb128: no, GNOME is pretty conservative
(04:38:20 PM) mdz: seb128: have CCed you on followup re: gstreamer
(04:38:46 PM) sfllaw: Can we update the SRU policy to get people to put this stuff in the Description?
(04:38:48 PM) seb128: ok
(04:38:55 PM) sfllaw: Reading long strings of comments is amusing, but inefficient.
(04:38:57 PM) mdz: sfllaw: that's fine with me
(04:38:57 PM) sfllaw: Especially for you.
(04:39:02 PM) cjwatson: sfllaw: please go ahead
(04:39:12 PM) seb128: mdz: why do we need to decide now for beagle or tracker, feature freeze is not good?
(04:39:28 PM) seb128: did you read my reply to your mail?
(04:39:32 PM) mdz: seb128: do you expect things to become clearer before then?
(04:39:39 PM) mdz: seb128: I did, but haven't replied yet
(04:39:39 PM) seb128: yes
(04:39:41 PM) cjwatson: sfllaw: that also makes it easier for users of stable releases to look up the bug and figure out why we changed it, which is a significant part of the point of the process too
(04:39:42 PM) mdz: it sounded indecisive :-)
(04:39:45 PM) seb128: I'm in contact with tracker upstream
(04:39:53 PM) seb128: and I think we will get tracker uploaded next week
(04:40:03 PM) seb128: I can't speak for tracker before getting user feedback on it
(04:40:11 PM) seb128: it looks a better choice on the paper
(04:40:14 PM) mdz: seb128: is it possible to use both in parallel?
(04:40:19 PM) seb128: C, smaller, extra features, good community
(04:40:42 PM) seb128: no
(04:40:47 PM) mdz: jdub said there was some discussion on desktop-devel-list
(04:40:59 PM) seb128: tracker has been proposed for GNOME 2.18
(04:41:04 PM) seb128: it's not likely to be accepted though
(04:41:08 PM) seb128: and beagle has not been proposed
(04:41:25 PM) mdz: ok, well the first step is to get them both in so that they can be tested, then send an announcement to -devel-announce to ask for testing and start a discussion about which works better for users
(04:41:35 PM) seb128: yeah that was my plan
(04:41:35 PM) mdz: will you do that?
(04:41:37 PM) mdz: ok ,thanks
(04:41:40 PM) seb128: yep, I'm on it
(04:41:42 PM) seb128: np
(04:41:47 PM) mdz: no word from doko?
(04:41:55 PM) mdz: (he was next)
(04:42:02 PM) mvo: I have tried to call him today without success
(04:42:12 PM) mvo: got the mailbox only on his mobile
(04:42:18 PM) mdz: mvo: will you try him tomorrow also? I hope he is OK
(04:42:26 PM) mvo: mdz: yes
(04:42:32 PM) mdz: keep me updated
(04:42:33 PM) ***mvo is slightly worried too
(04:42:37 PM) ogra: he joined for a short minute in #canonical on tuesday
(04:42:55 PM) dholbach: maybe I should do my morning run to his place tomorrow and bang on his door
(04:43:07 PM) mvo: ogra: I talked to him at the start of the weel
(04:43:14 PM) ogra: ah, right
(04:43:15 PM) mvo: week even

(04:43:18 PM) mdz: sfllaw: you're next then
(04:43:49 PM) sfllaw: Done:
(04:43:49 PM) sfllaw: * Taught two classes for UbuntuOpenWeek
(04:43:49 PM) sfllaw: * Verified many StableReleaseUpdates
(04:43:49 PM) sfllaw: * Bug triage
(04:43:49 PM) sfllaw: * Decided on two interns for the Montreal office
(04:43:52 PM) sfllaw: * scalable-installation-testing spec is drafted
(04:43:54 PM) sfllaw: To do:
(04:43:57 PM) sfllaw: * Interview more interns on Friday
(04:43:59 PM) sfllaw: * Start getting thin clients for interns
(04:44:01 PM) sfllaw: * Write documentation on Wiki about Ubuntu QA and TestPlans/TestCases.
(04:44:04 PM) sfllaw: Blocked:
(04:44:06 PM) sfllaw: * synaptic SRU is waiting in the edgy-proposed NEW queue
(04:44:09 PM) sfllaw: Specs:
(04:44:11 PM) sfllaw: * bug-reporting-tool (Approved)
(04:44:14 PM) sfllaw: * scalable-installation-testing (Discussion)
(04:44:17 PM) sfllaw: * We should probably implement some form of scalable-installation-testing, even if it isn't sufficiently general. The Testing/Current wiki page must die.

(04:45:41 PM) mdz: sfllaw: was the decision positive or negative on the interns?
(04:46:17 PM) mdz: sfllaw: I talked with pitti this morning about scalable-installation-testing; I think it may need some revision
(04:46:29 PM) sfllaw: mdz: Ah. Interviewed five interns. Picked two.
(04:47:00 PM) mdz: what I've proposed is a small but fundamental change
(04:47:20 PM) sfllaw: mdz: Can this change be done for the Feisty timeline?
(04:47:22 PM) mdz: it's essential that we be able to collect feedback from people outside of the formal testing framework
(04:47:23 PM) sfllaw: mdz: If so, I agree.
(04:47:42 PM) mdz: yes, I think it's not significantly more complex
(04:48:08 PM) sfllaw: mdz: OK. Either talk to me or pitti after the meeting and we'll update the spec until you're happy.
(04:48:32 PM) mdz: ok
(04:48:46 PM) mdz: sfllaw: when do the interns start?
(04:48:51 PM) sfllaw: January.
(04:49:00 PM) seb128: what are they going to do? ;)
(04:49:04 PM) sfllaw: We have desks for them, but we'll need stations.
(04:49:06 PM) mdz: bugs!
(04:49:07 PM) seb128: new hands to help on bug triage? ;)
(04:49:10 PM) sfllaw: seb128: Yes.
(04:49:11 PM) seb128: WAOUH
(04:49:13 PM) ogra: YAY
(04:49:14 PM) ***seb128 hugs mdz
(04:49:17 PM) dholbach: YEEEHAA
(04:49:17 PM) sfllaw: And verification if they can handle it.
(04:49:23 PM) mdz: their start should be a good opportunity to review and improve the bug documentation as well
(04:49:32 PM) sfllaw: Yeah.
(04:49:35 PM) mdz: so that it can be used to train future interns
(04:49:41 PM) sfllaw: We should be able to source free people from Jan-Apr.
(04:49:47 PM) mdz: sfllaw: great work
(04:49:51 PM) sfllaw: Some free people Sep-Dec.
(04:49:59 PM) sfllaw: But summer months will be lean.
(04:50:03 PM) sfllaw: Kids expect pay from summer jobs.
(04:50:16 PM) mdz: if someone has proven themselves in an internship, we can consider them for a summer arrangement
(04:50:21 PM) sfllaw: That'd be cool.
(04:50:25 PM) seb128: sfllaw: that's why we have SoC :p
(04:50:33 PM) ogra: hahaha
(04:50:40 PM) sfllaw: Let's talk about this in two or three months.
(04:50:43 PM) mdz: sfllaw: thanks

(04:50:46 PM) mdz: ogra: next
(04:50:50 PM) ogra: * last-week:
(04:50:50 PM) ogra: - travelling the wild wild east
(04:50:50 PM) ogra: - merging
(04:50:50 PM) ogra: - prepared new ltsp feisty branch
(04:50:50 PM) ogra: - prepared --workstation plugin for ltsp-fat-clients (running fine, only network auth bits are missing)
(04:50:52 PM) ogra: - seed merge
(04:50:53 PM) ogra: - OpenWeek edubuntu Q&A session
(04:50:57 PM) ogra: * next week:
(04:51:00 PM) ogra: - herd1
(04:51:01 PM) ogra: - merge debian ltsp patch backlog
(04:51:03 PM) ogra: - finishing the parts of ltsp-fat-clients that work without network auth
(04:51:05 PM) ogra: - start working on edubuntu-network-auth-server/client
(04:51:09 PM) ogra: * approved specs:
(04:51:11 PM) ogra: - ltsp-fat-clients - nearly implemented (a full ubuntu runs awesome in 196M/500Mhz, 32M nbd swap ;) )
(04:51:14 PM) ogra: - edubuntu-network-auth-server - not started
(04:51:16 PM) ogra: - edubuntu-network-auth-client - not started
(04:51:18 PM) ogra: - edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound - started
(04:51:20 PM) ogra: - ltsp-management-gui - started
(04:51:22 PM) ogra: - student-control-panel-upgrade - not started
(04:51:24 PM) ogra: - edubuntu-on-two-cds - not started
(04:51:28 PM) ogra: - ltsp-persistent-home - started by sbalneav (actually implemented during MTV, just not merged yet)

(04:52:08 PM) mdz: ogra: your specs don't seem to be targeted for feisty yet
(04:52:23 PM) mdz: ogra: have you reviewed them with RichEd?
(04:52:24 PM) ogra: they are proposed for it ... anything else i need to do ?
(04:52:30 PM) ogra: yes
(04:52:33 PM) ajmitch: ogra: I'll try & find some time to talk to you tomorrow or so about e-n-a-c/s
(04:52:52 PM) mdz: ogra: and all 8 are feisty targets? are their priorities set appropriately?
(04:52:57 PM) ogra: ajmitch, try to do it at a time where we can get moquist to attend (US time)
(04:53:18 PM) ajmitch: right, tomorrow is weekend for me, I'll track him down
(04:53:20 PM) ogra: mdz, the edubuntu-auth ones would be more appropriate with high status
(04:53:22 PM) finalbeta: mdz they are visible to me on the Feisty spec page.
(04:53:38 PM) mdz: ogra: they are not proposed for it; if you are in -core-dev they should go straight through anyway
(04:53:47 PM) ogra: weird
(04:53:48 PM) mdz: ah, there they are
(04:53:54 PM) mdz: ogra: you must have done them since the meeting started :-P
(04:54:01 PM) finalbeta: He did.
(04:54:05 PM) ogra: yeah
(04:54:12 PM) ***ogra blushes
(04:54:19 PM) dholbach: just in time
(04:54:36 PM) mdz: ok, thanks ogra
(04:54:48 PM) mdz: anyone heard from Keybuk?

(04:55:34 PM) mdz: iwj: next
(04:55:51 PM) iwj: Approved:
(04:55:51 PM) iwj: gnome-app-install-codecs: Started looking at g-a-i database generation.
(04:55:51 PM) iwj: udev-lvm, consistent-login-screen: Implementation not yet started.
(04:55:51 PM) iwj: package-dependency-field-breaks: Beta Available. Should be ready for full deployment now; I will rerun my search-for-candidates.
(04:55:54 PM) iwj: automated-testing-deployment: parts of implementation deferred from edgy. Work will continue.
(04:55:57 PM) iwj: Approved but problem:
(04:56:00 PM) iwj: usb-adsl-modems: lacking an Assignee. It would be nice to assign this to someone who understands the subject.
(04:56:03 PM) iwj: Drafting:
(04:56:05 PM) iwj: dbus-restarts: This needs discussion. Ideally we could discuss it at the next UDS or perhaps at a sprint, to write a clear and correct spec for feisty+1. Upstream disapprove but we all agree they're wrong.
(04:56:09 PM) iwj: New - needed (and still need) discussion, but not scheduled at uds-mtv:
(04:56:12 PM) iwj: winmodem-support: IMO should be deferred to feisty+1.
(04:56:15 PM) iwj: edgy-fontconfig: There is no spec. IMO should be deferred (or rejected).

(04:56:32 PM) mdz: iwj: we don't have an expert on hand for usb-adsl-modems; you'll need to learn about it
(04:56:43 PM) mdz: iwj: hardware and service can be provided if needed
(04:56:48 PM) iwj: I'll see what I can do.
(04:57:01 PM) mdz: iwj: let me know what you need and how much it costs
(04:57:44 PM) mdz: iwj: same goes for winmodem-support. there is no formal spec, but there is a wealth of information from the community
(04:58:03 PM) iwj: OK, I'll look into both of those. I don't want to make any promises ...
(04:58:05 PM) mdz: it deserves a proper review to identify which bits can be automated, which are licensing issues, etc.
(04:58:06 PM) cjwatson: for winmodem-support I think we need to be careful to select what we do
(04:58:17 PM) cjwatson: it's in danger of being a bit of a rabbit-hole
(04:58:27 PM) iwj: It did look quite open ended.
(04:58:50 PM) cjwatson: I agree it should be reviewed, just would like the time to be spent wisely
(04:58:54 PM) mdz: we should make sure we're doing the best we can with the available software to enable the hardware
(04:59:13 PM) mdz: it isn't more than a day's work to review what's out there, and that would be time well spent
(04:59:13 PM) iwj: I'll see what I can do to improve the situation. (I already have a winmodem in my laptop in fact ...)
(04:59:27 PM) iwj: review> OK, I'll do that.
(04:59:49 PM) mdz: iwj: ok, let me know what you find out
(05:00:06 PM) mdz: iwj: edgy-fontconfig was a discussion placeholder for UDS; should be marked informational and not targeted
(05:00:14 PM) iwj: OK.
(05:00:32 PM) mdz: dbus-restarts sounds like something which needs discussion, especially with some upstreams
(05:00:54 PM) mdz: not urgent for feisty
(05:00:58 PM) iwj: mdz: I don't think discussing it with upstreams will get us anywhere.
(05:01:07 PM) iwj: not urgent for feisty> Indeed.
(05:01:11 PM) iwj: We just need to fix it.
(05:01:15 PM) mdz: it's a lot of work and a large delta for us to take on; we shouldn't do it without some buy-in elsewhere
(05:01:28 PM) iwj: So I'd like to actually talk to people about what would be a good thing to do so we have a clear plan.
(05:01:34 PM) iwj: Without that it's hard to get buy-in.
(05:01:42 PM) iwj: I think Debian would take sane changes at least.
(05:01:45 PM) cjwatson: iwj: not dbus upstream themselves, perhaps, but upstreams of packages using dbus
(05:01:50 PM) iwj: cjwatson: Mmmm.
(05:02:02 PM) mdz: ->ubuntu-devel then, CCing relevant upstreams for the packages we'd be modifying
(05:02:03 PM) iwj: marked informational> Err, how do I do that in LP ?
(05:02:19 PM) mdz: it's under 'title and summary' or such
(05:02:33 PM) iwj: Aha.
(05:02:54 PM) mdz: iwj: breaks isn't targeted for feisty; if it's ready to go then target it
(05:03:01 PM) iwj: mdz: Right.
(05:03:11 PM) mdz: automated-testing-deployment needs targeting also; I think it's still set to edgy
(05:03:15 PM) iwj: Willdo.
(05:03:30 PM) mdz: ok, thanks iwj

(05:03:33 PM) mdz: cjwatson: next
(05:03:38 PM) cjwatson: Specifications:
(05:03:39 PM) cjwatson: setup-console-under-usplash: Approved, beta available; apparently broke though (#73955) so need to investigate.
(05:03:42 PM) cjwatson: intel-mac-support, ubiquity-advanced-partitioner, ubiquity-automation, ubiquity-driver-updates, ubiquity-release-notes: Approved.
(05:03:45 PM) cjwatson: feisty-ubiquity: Approved. Part bite-size tasks for new developers, and part stuff that I need to do; who should be the assignee?
(05:03:48 PM) cjwatson: ubiquity-slideshow: Approved. Part artwork and part me; who should be the assignee?
(05:03:51 PM) cjwatson: increase-hwdb-participation: Approved. Assignee probably shouldn't be me.
(05:03:54 PM) cjwatson: ubiquity-more-user-config: Still drafting, but mostly there on the condition that it satisfies the requirements, which I'm not sure about; sent to sabdfl for review. Need to talk to sysadmin too.
(05:03:58 PM) cjwatson: simplify-oem-installation: Still in requirements gathering. There are some fairly obvious things we can do listed at the bottom of the brain-dump, but I don't know how far we can take this without better commercial input.
(05:04:02 PM) cjwatson: ubiquity-oem: Not written up, and probably not happening.
(05:04:04 PM) cjwatson: Other:
(05:04:07 PM) cjwatson: Installer all merged, and more or less ready for Herd 1 bar the bug-fixing.
(05:04:10 PM) cjwatson: Who volunteered to be distro->LP-meeting delegate? I thought it was sfllaw, but I don't remember for sure, and the LP meeting is not obviously conveniently timed for him.
(05:04:13 PM) cjwatson: <SteveA> I like the idea of having a delegate from the distro team
(05:04:16 PM) cjwatson: <SteveA> one way to manage this with simon is to have simon talk with me or kiko on wednesday
(05:04:19 PM) cjwatson: <SteveA> and feed points / topics of concern to us for the meeting
(05:04:20 PM) cjwatson: (the bit at the end was because I chipped into the LP meeting with something random and SteveA /msged me to thank me for contributing)

(05:04:45 PM) mdz: cjwatson: feisty-ubiquity: primary assignee should be you, but please farm out the bite-size bits. maybe talk to dholbach or jono if no one in the core team is interested
(05:04:51 PM) cjwatson: ok
(05:05:36 PM) sfllaw: As for the LP delegate, it should probably be me. As I basically spend all day using LP.
(05:05:40 PM) cjwatson: I know sivang expressed interest
(05:05:48 PM) cjwatson: sfllaw: time sucks for you, doesn't it? it's always noon UTC
(05:05:49 PM) sfllaw: sivang: Ping?
(05:05:51 PM) mdz: cjwatson: ubiquity-slideshow is yours but low priority; would be great to find someone else to take it and be able to bump it up, but your others are more important
(05:05:58 PM) cjwatson: sfllaw: I mean in ubiquity work
(05:06:16 PM) sfllaw: Yeah, that time is terrible.
(05:06:31 PM) cjwatson: mdz: understood; shortly I'll be putting together some kind of guide for installer development and mailing it out in the hope of generating some interest
(05:07:12 PM) cjwatson: sfllaw: but, as SteveA says, if you want to feed info to him and kiko on Wednesday, and read the logs/summaries afterwards, that would work fine
(05:07:28 PM) sfllaw: When are their meetings? Thursday?
(05:07:30 PM) cjwatson: yes
(05:07:36 PM) mdz: let's take that discussion to distro-team@
(05:07:36 PM) sfllaw: I might do that.
(05:07:58 PM) mdz: distro-team@ and launchpad@, even
(05:08:06 PM) mdz: it might be that that person doesn't need to attend the meetings
(05:08:08 PM) cjwatson: I mentioned increase-hwdb-participation at last week's meeting too. Mithrandir expressed some interest then, but I think he thought it was in casper, which it doesn't really seem to be
(05:09:18 PM) mdz: any volunteers for increase-hwdb-participation?
(05:09:30 PM) cjwatson: (it's basically a desktop notification plus a few other bits)
(05:10:02 PM) ogra: yeah, its only a notification bubble and a change of the .desktop file status ...
(05:10:13 PM) pitti: doesn't sound too scary, I can take a look at it, but I don't know the spec yet
(05:10:22 PM) mdz: pitti: please have a look and let me know
(05:10:26 PM) cjwatson: I think it's fairly trivial, if you have time.
(05:10:40 PM) mdz: cjwatson: does that cover all the non-limbo specs of yours?
(05:10:40 PM) pitti: the time is the problem here, but that applies to everyone
(05:10:44 PM) ogra: it mentions apport as well ;)
(05:10:53 PM) pitti: heh
(05:11:03 PM) ***mvo would be interessted as well, but time is certainly a issue :/
(05:11:12 PM) cjwatson: mdz: I believe they're all covered above. ubiquity-more-user-config, simplify-oem-installation, ubiquity-oem are the only ones not targeted.
(05:11:37 PM) mdz: *oem* I think has to be targeted for feisty+1 after proper requirements definition
(05:11:49 PM) sladen: if increase-hwdb-participation is really that minor, I'll consider it
(05:11:50 PM) mdz: more-user-config is blocked on IS?
(05:11:53 PM) lifeless: I need to finish the hwdb client changes too - pitti can we coordinate please
(05:11:58 PM) cjwatson: ubiquity-slideshow> I expect that my side of it will be pretty small, FWIW. I agree it's less important than the others
(05:12:01 PM) pitti: lifeless: of course
(05:12:02 PM) cjwatson: mdz: yes
(05:12:04 PM) cjwatson: will send mail about that
(05:12:28 PM) mdz: ok, should probably be in RT
(05:12:31 PM) mdz: cjwatson: thanks
(05:12:33 PM) Burgwork: cjwatson: email marketing team asking for content
(05:12:35 PM) lifeless: pitti: great. I have have it working, just needs to be made pretty.
(05:12:49 PM) cjwatson: Burgwork: art team too I think
(05:12:52 PM) cjwatson: Burgwork: but ok

(05:12:38 PM) mdz: pitti: next
(05:12:49 PM) pitti: Done:
(05:12:49 PM) pitti: * lots of package merges
(05:12:49 PM) pitti: * spec reviews, discussions, and approvals; my own (assignee/drafter) feisty specs are all approved; I approved most of the specs I'm approver for, except:
(05:12:49 PM) pitti: - simple-x-mode-selection: still in drafting, pinged rodarvus yesterday
(05:12:49 PM) pitti: - scalable-installation-testing: was approved this morning with our original design; mdz had a different idea which got discussed shortly this morning, but which requires more intrusive changes in ubiquity, the db design, and other components, so I set it back to discussion for now
(05:12:52 PM) pitti: - ltsp-local-apps: utterly complex and a quick discussion with cjwatson revealed that this needs much more thought (this one is not marked for feisty)
(05:12:57 PM) pitti: * Note: bug-reporting-tool is currently assigned to sfllaw, but since it's mainly apport work, I should probably the assignee.
(05:13:00 PM) pitti: * cleanup-audio-jumble: tested pulseaudio and attempted to create the mentioned (in spec) patch to not hog the audio device; this failed due to the principal design of pulse; upstream works on a cleaner and more generic solution, but this will not be ready for feisty; since I do not want to break compatibility with commercial OSS apps and the multiuser case, I did not continue working on this for now
(05:13:05 PM) pitti: * zero-configuration-networking:
(05:13:07 PM) pitti: - did the required changes to base-files, avahi-autoipd, avahi, libnss-mdns, and ifupdown, so that the stuff works OOTB now when using dhclient
(05:13:10 PM) pitti: - filed bug for zeroconf package removal
(05:13:12 PM) pitti: - still missing: fix network-manager to not clobber the avahi-autoipd address (so that .local name resolution works with n-m), teach network-admin about the new ifupdown method (not that urgent, though, most people will not use the new /e/n/interfaces method and just rely on n-m or dhclient), and seed avahi-autoipd to ubuntu-desktop (after herd freeze)
(05:13:17 PM) pitti: * apport-improvements: got apport bits in for intercepting Python crashes, discussed a battle plan for Mono with slomo
(05:13:20 PM) pitti: * two OpenWeek talks
(05:13:22 PM) pitti: * started discussion and coding for automated package tests (mainly to improve QA of securi
(05:13:24 PM) pitti: ty updates so far, but this topic seems to grow and grow)
(05:13:28 PM) pitti: Todo:
(05:13:30 PM) pitti: * finish zero-configuration-networking implementation
(05:13:32 PM) mdz: pitti,sfllaw: happy for pitti to take bug-reporting-tool if you two agree
(05:13:32 PM) pitti: * fix feisty's and edgy's gnome-system-tools authentication problem
(05:13:34 PM) pitti: * change dapper's and edgy's ~/.xsession-errors rotation handling to new plan
(05:13:36 PM) pitti: * dive into bug triage

(05:13:58 PM) mdz: consider cleanup-audio-jumble deferred for now
(05:14:00 PM) sfllaw: pitti: Agreed.
(05:14:01 PM) pitti: sfllaw: if you want to hack on apport, go ahead, of course; but I guess I'll give a hand with that anyway
(05:14:06 PM) cjwatson: pitti: ltsp-local-apps> do you mean the ssh Cipher=none thing?
(05:14:08 PM) pitti: mdz: audio> I agree
(05:14:13 PM) sfllaw: pitti: When I get not busy. :)
(05:14:18 PM) sfllaw: In the meantime, you can hack on it.
(05:14:23 PM) pitti: cjwatson: yes, that still seems to be an issue, I didn't hear an update so far?
(05:14:26 PM) ogra: cjwatson, ssh Cipher=none isnt in any spec
(05:14:45 PM) cjwatson: pitti: haven't looked at it yet, I didn't realise it was blocking this spec rather than just random would-be-nice-if
(05:14:48 PM) ogra: thats a whishlist thing from upstream ltsp ... to not having to switch to xdmcp
(05:15:02 PM) mdz: pitti: Mithrandir is going to be working on n-m, so coordinate with him re: zero-conf-net
(05:15:06 PM) pitti: cjwatson: well, it's not the only thing; the spec lacks verbosity in general
(05:15:20 PM) ogra: if it shouws up in that spec it needs to be taken out, it has nothing to do with local-apps
(05:15:20 PM) pitti: mdz: yes, we already had a quick talk
(05:15:26 PM) cjwatson: pitti: ok; if it's something else then I'm afraid I've entirely forgotten our discussion ;)
(05:15:49 PM) cjwatson: I need to look at scalable-installation-testing
(05:15:50 PM) mdz: pitti: automated package tests -> iwj's stuff or something different?
(05:15:55 PM) pitti: cjwatson: I mainly needed that
(05:16:06 PM) pitti: mdz: eventually it would merge with that, yes
(05:16:23 PM) pitti: mdz: keescook and I had a discussion on the allhands how to improve our security update QA process
(05:16:34 PM) mdz: lifeless: ^^
(05:16:47 PM) pitti: mdz: and we agreed to testing security updates at least by two people, and writing automated tests where appropriate
(05:17:00 PM) pitti: sfllaw, lifeless, keescook, iwj, and I had a small discussion recently
(05:17:19 PM) pitti: since it turned out that these tests should be applicable to QA team as well, and might be integrated into autopkgtest
(05:17:51 PM) lifeless: mdz: yup
(05:18:16 PM) iwj: There's a reasonably good fit; most of my stuff is infrastructure and there are quite a few actual tests there that it would be nice to glue in.
(05:18:26 PM) mdz: ok
(05:18:55 PM) mdz: pitti: thanks
(05:18:58 PM) pitti: I didn't yet take a look at autopkgtest, I just wanted some initial bits to play with, but I definitively want to make it fit there

(05:18:54 PM) mdz: tkamppeter: ok, you're next then
(05:19:06 PM) tkamppeter: ACCEPTED FEATURES (for Feisty):
(05:19:06 PM) tkamppeter: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/people/till-kamppeter/+specs
(05:19:06 PM) tkamppeter: UDS outcomes:
(05:19:06 PM) tkamppeter: - "Easy configuration of printer sharing"
(05:19:06 PM) tkamppeter: - "Replace gnome-cups-manager by printerdrake"
(05:19:07 PM) tkamppeter: - "Automatic download of printer drivers through the internet"
(05:19:09 PM) tkamppeter: - "Automatic hotplug printer configuration"
(05:19:44 PM) tkamppeter: - Answered to bug report
(05:19:44 PM) tkamppeter: - Re-submitted EDgy update for foo2zjs bug 65618
(05:19:44 PM) Ubugtu: Malone bug 65618 in foo2zjs "Firmware upload to LJ 1000/1005/1008/1020 broken (fix to be proposed as Edgy update)" [Medium,Fix committed] http://launchpad.net/bugs/65618

(05:19:47 PM) mdz: pitti's concerns with printerdriverautodownload were addressed?
(05:19:54 PM) pitti: mdz: yes
(05:20:02 PM) pitti: (from my POV, that is)
(05:21:07 PM) tkamppeter: Also discussed how to save space with the PPDs bug 39847
(05:21:07 PM) Ubugtu: Malone bug 39847 in foomatic-db "Getting (more) manufacturer-supplied PostScript PPDs onto the Ubuntu desktop CDs" [Undecided,Confirmed] http://launchpad.net/bugs/39847
(05:21:11 PM) mdz: tkamppeter: 65618 -> cjwatson
(05:21:34 PM) mdz: automatic hotplug printer configuration is not for feisty, correct?
(05:21:51 PM) cjwatson: the SRU team is subscribed to 65618, so I'll catch up on it tomorrow
(05:22:04 PM) cjwatson: sorry for the delay
(05:22:14 PM) tkamppeter: Yes, this I wanted to say, too.
(05:22:22 PM) mdz: ok
(05:22:26 PM) mdz: thanks tkamppeter
(05:22:40 PM) mdz: did I miss anyone, or is there any other business to discuss (briefly)?
(05:22:47 PM) zul: just me..

(05:22:52 PM) fabbione: distro sprint?
(05:22:58 PM) pitti: ^ any dates yet?
(05:23:05 PM) fabbione: we are about 7 weeks and no dates have been confirmed
(05:23:08 PM) mdz: fabbione: please mail distro-team@
(05:23:21 PM) mdz: fabbione: we do need to finalize that soon

(05:22:57 PM) mdz: zul: go ahead
(05:23:02 PM) zul: this week
(05:23:02 PM) zul: ---------
(05:23:02 PM) zul: * xen kernel update
(05:23:02 PM) zul: * kernel security for breezy.
(05:23:02 PM) zul: * bug triaging
(05:23:04 PM) zul: next week
(05:23:07 PM) zul: ---------
(05:23:09 PM) zul: * big xen/kernel push
(05:23:11 PM) ogra: ^ any places yet ?
(05:23:12 PM) zul: * bug triaging
(05:23:14 PM) zul: * merges
(05:23:17 PM) zul: Specs
(05:23:19 PM) zul: ----
(05:23:22 PM) zul: * xen-fesity spec apprvoed (approved), started

(05:23:59 PM) mdz: zul: are you comfortable with how xen-feisty turned out?
(05:24:29 PM) zul: yes i am

(05:24:56 PM) mdz: zul: will xen support paravirt-ops?
(05:25:16 PM) zul: it looks like it from what i been seeing ive asked the upstream developers
(05:25:43 PM) mdz: that would make it a candidate for main
(05:25:54 PM) zul: thats what im hoping for
(05:25:56 PM) mdz: we'll see what happens

(05:24:54 PM) ajmitch: mdz: what do do with any other specs that may be stuck at needs review or pending approval?
(05:25:14 PM) mdz: ajmitch: review -> review team, approval -> technical-board
(05:26:07 PM) ajmitch: mdz: right, thanks, wasn't sure if it was too late

(05:26:11 PM) mdz: we're well over time
(05:26:26 PM) zul: thanks everyone
(05:26:41 PM) mdz: yes, thanks all
(05:26:46 PM) mdz: until next week
(05:26:50 PM) mdz: adjourned
(05:26:57 PM) seb128: thank you mdz
(05:26:59 PM) dholbach: thanks
</pre>
