{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 15 Dec at 16:03 &mdash; 16:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-12-15-16.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

==== Xenial Development ====
The discussion about "Xenial Development" started at 16:04.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:04)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1514731 
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1514482 
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1510345 
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1499620 
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1510108 
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1516085 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:07.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)" started at 16:08.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:08.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:09.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:09.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:10.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:14.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jamespage (53)
* teward (20)
* ubottu (6)
* meetingology (3)
* matsubara (1)
* smb (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:03 <jamespage> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Dec 15 16:03:19 2015 UTC.  The chair is jamespage. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03 <meetingology> 

 16:03 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:03 <jamespage> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 * jamespage looks

 16:03 <jamespage> hmm no action points...

 16:03 <jamespage> moving on

 16:04 <jamespage> #topic Xenial Development

 16:04 <jamespage> lets take a look at the release schedule

 16:04 <jamespage> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:04 <jamespage> Nothing this month apart from alpha-1 on the 31st - but server won't be participating

 16:04 <jamespage> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:04 <jamespage> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:05 <teward> o/  (late)

 16:05 <jamespage> updating to

 16:05 <jamespage> http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:05 <jamespage> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1514731

 16:05 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1514731 in neutron (Ubuntu Xenial) "OpenStack Installation Guide for Ubuntu in Installation Guide Executable not found: conntrack (filter match = conntrack)" [High,Incomplete]

 16:05 <jamespage> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1514482

 16:05 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1514482 in walinuxagent (Ubuntu Xenial) "walinuxagent udev should be included in initramfs" [High,Confirmed]

 16:05 <jamespage> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1510345

 16:06 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1510345 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Xenial) "[SRU] Cloud Images do not bring up networking w/ certain virtual NICs due to device naming rules" [High,Triaged]

 16:06 <jamespage> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1499620

 16:06 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1499620 in python-oslo.log (Ubuntu Wily) "[SRU] Unintended assignment of "syslog"" [High,In progress]

 16:06 <jamespage> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1510108

 16:06 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1510108 in lxc (Ubuntu Xenial) "pre-installed lxc in cloud-image means loss of access to 10.0.X.0/24" [Medium,Triaged]

 16:06 <jamespage> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1516085

 16:06 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1516085 in cinder (Ubuntu Wily) "quotas calls fail when CONF.keymgr.encryption_auth_url is not configured" [High,In progress]

 16:06 <jamespage> two unassigned - dosaboy is dealing with the oslo.log bug

 16:07 <jamespage> and I need to follow up on the missing conntrack dependency thing

 16:07 <jamespage> ok

 16:07 <jamespage> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:07 <jamespage> caribou is not around - but probably worth noting we have a haproxy SRU regression inflight - haproxy in trusty can't tell whether its running any longer

 16:08 <jamespage> fix awaiting acceptance into proposed, but that is breaking ha deployments of openstack right now on icehouse.

 16:08 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)

 16:08 <jamespage> matsubara, anything from you?

 16:08 <matsubara> jamespage, no news from me this week

 16:08 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:08 <smb> No news except that due to the coming end of the year there will be even less news in near future...

 16:08 <jamespage> \o/

 16:09 <jamespage> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:09 <jamespage> anything? FOSDEM is late Jan - anyone submitted talks?

 16:09 <jamespage> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:09 <jamespage> Christmas!

 16:09 <jamespage> awesome

 16:10 <jamespage> #topic Open Discussion

 16:10 <jamespage> anyone else got anything else to discuss?

 16:10 <teward> hiya!

 16:10 <jamespage> hey teward

 16:10 <teward> nginx 1.9.6 is likely going to finally land as part of a merge now, though without HTTP/2 due to security team mandates currently in place

 16:11 <teward> and i expect some headaches from users testing Xenial already hoping for that feature

 16:11 <jamespage> glad to hear that - what are the limitaions with enabling http/2 ?

 16:11 <teward> jamespage: security team concerns over the implementatio

 16:11 <teward> n

 16:11 <teward> blah

 16:11 <teward> implementation*

 16:11 <jamespage> so tricky to get through MIR right now?

 16:11 <teward> sarnold is the one who sent the mandate down to me, watching -server and such for my noting to rbasak the merge was being worked on today

 16:11 <jamespage> teward: ack - thanks for the update!

 16:12 <teward> jamespage: i'd poke the Sec team with that question, AIUI they want it to go through some more 'world use'

 16:12 <teward> so it's less 'fuzzy' (it's still being developed after all)

 16:12 <jamespage> teward: I guess implemented != ready for production use...

 16:12 <teward> note Apache has a similar mandate against it, confirmed by sarnold

 16:12 <jamespage> okies

 16:12 <teward> jamespage: nginx upstream says it 'is usable' but security team has their own concerns

 16:12 <teward> and while I understand them, the merge delta is increased

 16:13 <jamespage> teward: do you need support from anyone in the wider team around nginx?

 16:13 <teward> jamespage: just a sanity-check of my latest debdiff.  and $50 in retroactive funding for the coffee I needed.

 16:13 <teward> my note here was for situational awareness more than call for support

 16:13 <jamespage> teward: lol

 16:13 <jamespage> ok

 16:13 <jamespage> anyone else for open discussion elements?

 16:14 <jamespage> teward: btw that was an appropriate topic to raise in "Xenial development" IMHO

 16:14 <teward> jamespage: i was late

 16:14 <teward> :)

 16:14 <jamespage> hehe

 16:14 <jamespage> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:14 <teward> not my fault wifi here blew up

 16:14 <teward> (will remember for future)

 16:14 <jamespage> I'd suggest we adjorn for two weeks and start off the new year with a server team meeting on the 5th of January

 16:15 <jamespage> so have a nice christmas and new year everyone!

 16:15 <jamespage> 1600 UTC 5th January 2016

 16:15 <jamespage> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
