{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC-4
{{{
((09:05:44 AM) Keybuk: ok, the others can catch up
(09:05:47 AM) Keybuk: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2008-04-03
(09:05:59 AM) Keybuk: I put together the agenda, pitti had a small bunch of agenda items - did I miss any from anyone else?
(09:06:54 AM) pitti: Keybuk: there are a few outstanding action points from the last two meetings
(09:06:55 AM) seb128: Keybuk: no but I'll have a quick one to add about the gvfs libarchive backend and whether we want to use it in hardy or not
(09:07:05 AM) Keybuk: pitti: do you have them to hand, I didn't spot one?
(09:07:37 AM) pitti: Keybuk: they shuold be in the 'action points' from last one
(09:07:47 AM) mvo: Keybuk: yes
(09:07:50 AM) mvo: sorry
(09:07:58 AM) pitti: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2008-03-27
(09:08:00 AM) ***mvo was in deep hacking mode
(09:08:17 AM) pitti: ah, nautilus share transition is an important one to discuss IMHO
(09:08:21 AM) Keybuk: oh yes
(09:08:22 AM) Keybuk: sorry
(09:08:22 AM) seb128: mvo: napping you mean? ;-)
(09:08:29 AM) Keybuk: * Sebastien to initiate a discussion about shares-admin -> nautilus-share
(09:08:29 AM) Keybuk: upgrade migration with slangasek on u-devel@
(09:08:42 AM) Keybuk: seb128: how did that discussion go?
(09:08:42 AM) mvo: seb128: isn't that the same ;)
(09:08:52 AM) seb128: we discussed it on #ubuntu-devel
(09:08:56 AM) seb128: no migration possible
(09:09:10 AM) seb128: he doesn't think that's an issue and we will write about it in the upgrade notes
(09:09:18 AM) Keybuk: what needs migrating?
(09:09:31 AM) seb128: shres-admin does "normal" smb sharing
(09:09:35 AM) seb128: adding things to smb.conf
(09:09:39 AM) mvo: anything we can do in update-mangaer?
(09:09:46 AM) seb128: nautilus-share uses net usershare
(09:09:57 AM) seb128: and store things in /var/lib/samba/usershare
(09:10:14 AM) seb128: basically slangasek said that migration is not possible
(09:10:29 AM) seb128: because there is no way to know which shares have been added using shares-admin or in a other way
(09:10:30 AM) Keybuk: if they have things in smb.conf, will they still work?
(09:10:40 AM) seb128: and migrating those to useshare could be a security issues
(09:10:49 AM) seb128: because other people will have access to thing they should not
(09:10:59 AM) seb128: and there is no way to know which ones should be public or not
(09:11:03 AM) seb128: Keybuk: yes
(09:11:12 AM) seb128: Keybuk: we just remove the way to graphically edit this list
(09:11:19 AM) Keybuk: so it only really affects people wanting to modify shares they had in the past?
(09:11:23 AM) seb128: yes
(09:12:00 AM) Keybuk: can they just install shares-admin?
(09:12:14 AM) seb128: not now, I dropped the binary to not get duplication etc
(09:12:16 AM) pitti: it's not a separate package
(09:12:19 AM) Keybuk: ah right
(09:12:24 AM) seb128: but I think I'll do a separate binary
(09:12:30 AM) pitti: maybe we can just drop the .desktop file?
(09:12:30 AM) Keybuk: so was steve happy with that?
(09:12:34 AM) seb128: xubuntu users would like that too I think
(09:12:49 AM) pitti: or use NotShowIn to hide it?
(09:12:56 AM) seb128: pitti: either new binary package or drop nautilus integration and menu entry
(09:13:17 AM) seb128: pitti: I suggested that to steve but he seemed to no see the point
(09:13:27 AM) seb128: and I would prefer to not have to still maintain this code
(09:13:36 AM) seb128: it's written in perl, ugly and upstream stopped maintaining it
(09:13:37 AM) pitti: ok
(09:13:46 AM) Keybuk: ah, that thing
(09:14:09 AM) seb128: Keybuk: steve said he's happy to drop shares-admin and write something in the hardy notes about the old shares
(09:14:11 AM) Keybuk: seb128: it sounds like you've had generally good feedback from your plans and no significant concerns raised?
(09:14:14 AM) seb128: since we can't migrate anyway
(09:14:20 AM) seb128: it's either we do that or never change
(09:14:31 AM) seb128: and we don't want to never change so better to bite the bullet now
(09:14:36 AM) Keybuk: *nods*
(09:14:48 AM) seb128: Keybuk: right, I think everything is on track
(09:14:55 AM) Keybuk: sounds like a no-brainer then :-)
(09:15:55 AM) Keybuk: * Sebastien to prepare theme change back to ubuntulooks
(09:15:58 AM) Keybuk: I think I saw that get done?
(09:16:11 AM) seb128: yes, kwwii and mvo took care of the theme changes
(09:16:19 AM) Keybuk: * Sebastien to rename the tracker menu item
(09:16:41 AM) seb128: we had some random discussions on the list about menu changes, etc
(09:16:55 AM) seb128: and I think we should better wait next cycle to do those cleanup, that's late now to break translations
(09:17:22 AM) Keybuk: ok
(09:17:29 AM) ***pitti raises hand
(09:17:37 AM) pitti: IMHO we should still fix at least "transmission"
(09:17:43 AM) pitti: nobody knows what that means
(09:17:51 AM) seb128: right, need to ping jdong about this one again
(09:18:01 AM) seb128: they were working on updating or backporting changes
(09:18:09 AM) seb128: and dunno why that has not been uploaded yet
(09:18:28 AM) Keybuk: do we need a UDS session for menu changes?
(09:18:50 AM) mdz: janebot noticed some of the menu inconsistencies
(09:19:00 AM) mdz: pitti: agreed re: "transmission"
(09:19:01 AM) seb128: well, I think menus changes discussions will lead nowhere
(09:19:04 AM) ***tedg thinks Keybuk will get the room to himself ;)
(09:19:07 AM) seb128: we already had those
(09:19:32 AM) kwwii: that kind of thing should really be done by usability people, or?
(09:19:36 AM) seb128: I think we should think about change the menu to use gnome-main-menu or consider using the gnome-control-center shell and improve it
(09:19:45 AM) seb128: s/change/changing
(09:19:47 AM) Keybuk: ok
(09:19:51 AM) Keybuk: let's follow up on this later
(09:20:00 AM) Keybuk: * Ken to look into updating important bits of example-contents for Hardy, primarily release name
(09:20:31 AM) seb128: mdz: right, we discussed it at previous meeting, there is also an inconsistancy about using or not the software names in the menus entries, that's being discussed upstream too
(09:20:56 AM) kwwii: Keybuk: haven't gotten around to that yet
(09:21:02 AM) ***Keybuk still has nightmares about a street of shops all names "Shoes"
(09:21:35 AM) Keybuk: ok
(09:21:39 AM) Keybuk: * (pitti) libgphoto gvfs: keep and fix, or ditch?
(09:22:02 AM) pitti: oh, I added that before I discussed it with Seb, sorry
(09:22:13 AM) pitti: I think we pretty much agreed on disabling it, since it's too buggy
(09:22:14 AM) Keybuk: ah, what was the result of the discussion ooi
(09:22:18 AM) Keybuk: what replaces it?
(09:22:21 AM) pitti: any objections?
(09:22:32 AM) pitti: Keybuk: f-spot-import
(09:22:40 AM) pitti: similar to gthumb import from rpevious releases
(09:22:49 AM) Keybuk: ah
(09:22:53 AM) pitti: the libgphoto gvfs backend is cool, but it's not ready yet IMHO
(09:22:56 AM) Keybuk: this is the thing where the camera appears accessible to the gnome vfs
(09:23:07 AM) Keybuk: instead of needing to spawn a program to deal with it?
(09:23:26 AM) pitti: it appears in places and computer:///, but clicking on photos doesn't work (missing eog gvfs integration), it's not automounted, and if it's mounted, it blocks f-spot
(09:23:29 AM) seb128: it does mount your camera
(09:23:39 AM) seb128: and you can use it as a standard mount
(09:23:42 AM) Keybuk: ah, and doesn't get the photos into f-spot?
(09:23:50 AM) pitti: Keybuk: no, you just get a file browser
(09:24:03 AM) pitti: (which might not be what most people want to do with their camera, dunno)
(09:24:06 AM) seb128: well, it makes you gphoto camera being seen as a removable disk
(09:24:14 AM) Keybuk: got it
(09:24:17 AM) pitti: so, I think it would be great to use in intrepid
(09:24:23 AM) Keybuk: if you're both happy with disabling for now and reviewing later, that's fine
(09:24:23 AM) seb128: you can copy directly from the folder if your app use gvfs
(09:24:25 AM) pitti: when we'll switch f-spot/gthumb to file-based import
(09:24:26 AM) seb128: which is not the case yet
(09:24:29 AM) pitti: and 'mount' the camera
(09:24:33 AM) seb128: right
(09:24:36 AM) pitti: then you can have both
(09:24:42 AM) pitti: *shiny* *shiny* :)
(09:24:57 AM) Keybuk: "This folder contains pictures from a camera. [ Import into F-Spot ]"
(09:25:00 AM) pitti: but I guess for that it needs a real fuse mount, otherwise you can just see it from gvfs-enabled apps
(09:25:34 AM) Keybuk: I half expected someone to write an LD_PRELOAD wrapper that wrapped open(), creat(), etc. with gvfs calls :p
(09:25:44 AM) awalton__: that should already work fine if you have gvfs-fuse installed and working.
(09:25:54 AM) Keybuk: but anyway, digressing into dangerous territory ;)
(09:26:00 AM) Keybuk: * (seb128) gvfs libarchive backend, use in hardy?
(09:26:03 AM) awalton__: there's just not a way yet to make that "apparent" to users.
(09:26:18 AM) Keybuk: is this "open tar files as a folder" ?
(09:26:28 AM) seb128: Keybuk: ok, where we stand now is that the current gvfs in hardy has the libarchive backend
(09:26:34 AM) seb128: we promoted libarchive for that
(09:26:44 AM) seb128: it's not used now but I've the change ready, fedora is using it
(09:27:11 AM) seb128: that's basically added a .desktop to nautilus which gives you a "mount archive" context menu option on zip, iso, etc
(09:27:17 AM) seb128: s/added/adding
(09:27:30 AM) seb128: and the mounted archive is listed as mount then
(09:27:40 AM) seb128: you can browse it, copy from it, etc
(09:27:53 AM) mvo: what about file-roller then? its no longer needed with that?
(09:27:54 AM) Keybuk: does it work?
(09:28:03 AM) seb128: Keybuk: it works fine yes
(09:28:14 AM) seb128: I think the "have to mount and then use" user experience is not optimal
(09:28:33 AM) pitti: so ideally it would work like file-roller, but look like nautilus?
(09:28:34 AM) Keybuk: yeah, I guess you just want to double-click
(09:28:35 AM) seb128: but it's not exposed a lot and easy to use for those who want the feature
(09:29:05 AM) seb128: mvo: file-roller is needed because libarchive does only cpio, zip, iso
(09:29:05 AM) Keybuk: Why isn't it the default action?
(09:29:10 AM) pitti: zip:///home/martin/foo.zip/path/inside/zip.txt nautilus window would be cool :)
(09:29:34 AM) seb128: another thing is that libarchive does reading only
(09:29:37 AM) seb128: Keybuk: ^
(09:29:44 AM) Keybuk: ahh
(09:29:47 AM) seb128: which means you can't add files to a zip for example
(09:29:50 AM) Keybuk: any plans for it to expand its format support or be writable?
(09:30:10 AM) seb128: and it doesn't support rar, ace, and other formats which are used
(09:30:13 AM) Keybuk: any downsides to activating it? does it break anything else?
(09:30:32 AM) pitti: libarchive itself supports writing, but I doubt that it gets support for other formats anytime soon
(09:30:36 AM) seb128: Keybuk: Company is speaking about it, but not sure how much work that is and if that's going to happen soon
(09:30:56 AM) seb128: Keybuk: no, the gvfs backend is already activated
(09:31:01 AM) Keybuk: ok
(09:31:06 AM) Keybuk: do you think we should activate it?
(09:31:07 AM) seb128: that just adds a context menu item and a string to translate
(09:31:18 AM) mvo: sounds like its harmless because file-roller is still the default and its just a optional new feature
(09:31:22 AM) seb128: the downside is to have to support libarchive for the lts
(09:31:31 AM) Keybuk: will we have to support it for intrepid?
(09:31:37 AM) seb128: yes
(09:31:46 AM) Keybuk: then we'll be supporting it anyway
(09:32:18 AM) Keybuk: seb128: your decision :-)
(09:32:30 AM) seb128: well, I've difficulties to evaluate how many users are wanting to browse isos
(09:32:38 AM) Keybuk: _o/
(09:32:57 AM) seb128: there was some users on the brainstorm website asking for a such feature
(09:33:01 AM) Keybuk: actually, I hear quite a bit that being able to use .dmg files is a killer mac feature
(09:33:06 AM) Keybuk: yeah, indeed
(09:33:14 AM) Keybuk: so taking a step towards that for us seems good too
(09:33:30 AM) Keybuk: (of course, running programs from inside isos will mean that ld.so will need gvfs support <g>)
(09:33:38 AM) seb128: ok, so my vote would be to activate it, my concern was just adding extra load on the security team for something not really required
(09:33:53 AM) Keybuk: seb128: check with kees, but if it's already in main, it sounds like he's approved it
(09:34:03 AM) seb128: yeah, we discussed it on friday
(09:34:09 AM) pitti: Keybuk: (note that file-roller browses ISOs just fine, too)
(09:34:17 AM) seb128: that was basically "if you really want it, alright"
(09:34:34 AM) Keybuk: :-)
(09:34:44 AM) Keybuk: * (pitti) Coordination of fixing /etc diff for upgrades (Michael started to provide diffs now, thanks a lot!)
(09:35:07 AM) pitti: right, so http://people.ubuntu.com/~mvo/automatic-upgrade-testing/kvm/profile/lts-ubuntu/etc.diff is a nice and handy 5.2 MB (!!) diff
(09:35:18 AM) pitti: between /etc/ upgraded from dapper and a fresh hardy installation
(09:35:30 AM) pitti: I think there are probably many bombs and bugs inside
(09:35:44 AM) mvo: it dosn't purge obsolete packages currently though
(09:35:47 AM) pitti: so we should at least go through it with a fine comb, and turn errors into bug reports
(09:36:01 AM) pitti: mvo: do you think you can regenerate it with purged uninstalled packages?
(09:36:22 AM) pitti: although I suppose stuff like the /etc/cron.daily/find bug wouldn't have appeared then
(09:36:29 AM) mvo: I will create a run with purge later, but my test-machine is running out of space to do too many of those in parallel (I "only" have a 320GB hdd for this)
(09:36:57 AM) pitti: mvo: anyway, I think we just need to check newly added files in /etc/rc*.d/ for now, and can ignore others, right?
(09:37:03 AM) pitti: that should make it easier
(09:37:42 AM) pitti: I'm willing to work on that and turn it into a bug list, but I might need some more hands to fix all of them
(09:37:50 AM) Keybuk: pitti: is that changes between /etc from dapper to hardy?
(09:37:58 AM) Keybuk: ah yes, you said that
(09:37:59 AM) mvo: probably, at least a exlucd list for stuff like /etc/altneratives should be added to the diff generator
(09:38:03 AM) pitti: Keybuk: between a dapper->hardy upgrade and a hardy fresh install
(09:38:04 AM) seb128: pitti: are those changes really an issue?
(09:38:09 AM) Keybuk: oh, right
(09:38:10 AM) pitti: yes, probably
(09:38:23 AM) pitti: in the last weeks I fixed a few bugs which e. g. totally broke hal on dapper->hardy upgrade
(09:38:34 AM) pitti: missing or wrong transitions in postinsts, etc.
(09:38:35 AM) mvo: seb128: some are, /etc/cron.daily/find caused trouble for example with diversion in slocate under some circumstances
(09:38:43 AM) pitti: or obsolete configuration files which don't match the new version any more
(09:38:57 AM) Keybuk: mvo: are you planning to review and file bugs?
(09:39:02 AM) pitti: so, we don't need to get the diff down to 0, but we need to watch out for real bugs
(09:39:22 AM) mvo: Keybuk: yeah, I plan to review them (and did to some extend)
(09:39:25 AM) pitti: mvo: shall we attack it together?
(09:39:26 AM) Keybuk: pitti: or are you?
(09:39:33 AM) mvo: sure, together is even better
(09:39:55 AM) pitti: mvo: we could start at opposite ends of the file and work towards meeting i n the middle or so
(09:40:17 AM) Keybuk: :)
(09:40:22 AM) seb128: seems that quite some issues are packages not cleaning conffiles on upgrade when they stop shipping those
(09:40:33 AM) seb128: dpkg should really do that automatically
(09:40:34 AM) pitti: we have similar diffs for gutsy->hardy and a few other cases, but I guess this is the biggest/worst one
(09:40:51 AM) seb128: having to add maintainer scripts to do that is annoying
(09:40:59 AM) mvo: seb128: yeah, the amount of copied rm_conffile is really anoying
(09:41:05 AM) Keybuk: :-)
(09:41:06 AM) pitti: at least if they weren't modified, yeah
(09:41:14 AM) Keybuk: just be glad we *have* a relatively standard function for it now <g>
(09:41:21 AM) mvo: we should ship common snippets like rm_conffile or mv_conffile in some central package so that they can be sourced at least IMHO
(09:41:21 AM) pitti: I do see the point for keeping modified ones, but there is *no* reason for unmodified ones
(09:41:29 AM) seb128: mvo: indeed
(09:41:40 AM) Keybuk: mvo: I've been arguing for ages that they should be debhelper things
(09:41:51 AM) mvo: yeah, that would be fine as well
(09:41:56 AM) Keybuk: since even when people use them, they forget prep_rm_conffile, undo_rm_conffile, finish_rm_conffile in preinst and postrm :)
(09:42:09 AM) seb128: pitti: well, usually that's maintainers not knowing they need a snippet or not not been careful about that
(09:42:13 AM) pitti: TBH, most of the time I just remove them in postinst
(09:42:30 AM) Keybuk: pitti: then they show up as an obsolete file in dpkg
(09:42:33 AM) seb128: what I do too
(09:42:37 AM) pitti: erm, preinst I mean
(09:42:54 AM) Keybuk: pitti: then if the unpack fails, the file vanishes forever ;)
(09:43:12 AM) pitti: it's just too painful to get it 100% right without introducing other bugs FWIW
(09:43:13 AM) Keybuk: anyway, dpkg sucks
(09:43:35 AM) Keybuk: mvo, pitti: you're both happy to go through that file together and file bugs?
(09:43:36 AM) mvo: at least this bit in it :P
(09:43:39 AM) pitti: Keybuk: ack
(09:43:43 AM) mvo: Keybuk: yeah
(09:43:46 AM) Keybuk: I'm sure I can probably be blamed for some of them
(09:44:00 AM) Keybuk: * (pitti) next week I'll be at the LinuxFoundation collaboration summit in Austin; anything I should do/ask/tell/promote there?
(09:44:02 AM) mvo: I will also keep the regular kvm tests running here and report issues
(09:44:06 AM) pitti: ^ good to know for the default assignee :-P
(09:44:14 AM) mvo: liw was doing some work here too recently, that is pretty cool
(09:44:18 AM) pitti: oh, that's not really something to discuss here, just a general question to the team
(09:44:39 AM) Keybuk: ok, if you have things for pitti to do at the LF summit next week, please tell him ;-)
(09:44:48 AM) Keybuk: pitti: beware of "The Tilted Kilt"
(09:44:52 AM) mvo: buy me some hardware :P
(09:45:28 AM) ***pitti ponders what to bring as a souvenir - a Colt, a barrel of oil, or a cactus
(09:45:30 AM) Keybuk: ok
(09:45:31 AM) Keybuk: * Final call for UDS Agenda topics
(09:45:47 AM) Keybuk: I'll be putting together the draft agenda (ie. list of topics to discuss and a paragraph summary of each) tomorrow
(09:45:54 AM) seb128: - rethink the menus?
(09:45:55 AM) tedg: Is there a list of UDS agenda topics?
(09:45:59 AM) Keybuk: you've all given me a list, but if you have anything else, please e-mail it me
(09:46:06 AM) Keybuk: tedg: that's what I'll be writing <g>
(09:46:36 AM) ogra_cmpc: pitti, take the colt, thats likely the most exciting at customs :)
(09:47:01 AM) tedg: Keybuk: Okay, I don't have any others to add :)
(09:48:11 AM) Keybuk: ok
(09:48:20 AM) Keybuk: http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/
(09:48:49 AM) Keybuk: mvo: bug #210173
(09:48:49 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 210173 in transmission "Transmission does not use .desktop translations from Rosetta" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/210173
(09:49:24 AM) mvo: will take care of it
(09:49:31 AM) Keybuk: Riddell: bug #207863
(09:49:31 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 207863 in qt4-x11 "assert in qbrush.cpp on LPIA (skype)" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/207863
(09:50:04 AM) Riddell: hmm, proprietry software on a platform i can't test
(09:50:33 AM) Keybuk: sure, but if it's in the sponsoring queue, it means someone's already done a ptach
(09:50:45 AM) Keybuk: you just need to check that, and upload
(09:50:58 AM) pitti: Keybuk: "ptach" is a Klingon name-calling...
(09:51:12 AM) Riddell: yep, sponsorship queue is on my todo
(09:51:13 AM) Keybuk: pitti: it's slightly worrying that you know that ;)
(09:51:32 AM) MacSlow: pitti, I'm amazed :)
(09:51:33 AM) pitti: nuQneH?
(09:51:54 AM) pitti: don't tell me you guy's didn't watch Star Trek TNG/Voyager
(09:52:11 AM) MacSlow: sure I did/do
(09:52:20 AM) Keybuk: seb128: bug #199402 looks like it was fixed and got re-opened ?
(09:52:21 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 199402 in metacity "gnome-appearance-properties crashed with SIGSEGV in meta_theme_get_frame_style()" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/199402
(09:52:23 AM) MacSlow: and waiting for the new StarTrek-movie
(09:52:30 AM) kwwii: it just takes a special kind of person to learn klingon :-)
(09:52:38 AM) seb128: Keybuk: yeah, I just unsubscribed the sponsors
(09:52:48 AM) seb128: Keybuk: I don't think the guy who reopened has the same issue
(09:53:00 AM) seb128: the bug was a crash, and he has a lack of preview in the capplet
(09:53:12 AM) seb128: anyway nothing to sponsor there
(09:53:27 AM) Keybuk: *waits for LP*
(09:53:34 AM) ***Keybuk sits down and starts singing about gold
(09:53:47 AM) Keybuk: mvo: bug #104553
(09:53:51 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 104553 in fontconfig "upgrade failed when fontconfig cache dirs are newer than system date" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/104553
(09:53:56 AM) Keybuk: I remember that one came up before?
(09:54:49 AM) mvo: I'm not happy with the patch, I would rather want to fix it in fontconfig (and I believe its fixed there already)
(09:55:03 AM) Keybuk: ok
(09:55:09 AM) Keybuk: can you unsubscribe u-m-s
(09:55:12 AM) mvo: my bad, I need to remove it from u-m-s
(09:55:43 AM) Keybuk: ooh look one for me
(09:55:45 AM) Keybuk: :-)
(09:55:57 AM) Keybuk: mvo: also new patch on #87914
(09:56:07 AM) Keybuk: mdz: since you're here ... bug #15051 <g>
(09:56:07 AM) seb128: bug #87914
(09:56:08 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 15051 in pcre3 "grep -P is not supported" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/15051
(09:56:10 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 87914 in update-manager "Progress bar refers to "1 minutes" or "1 hours"" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/87914
(09:56:16 AM) mvo: dholbach: could you please unsubscribe ubuntu-main-sponsors from #104553
(09:56:31 AM) Keybuk: dholbach: likewise, please unsub from #94120
(09:56:39 AM) dholbach: I can add you both to the team
(09:56:50 AM) Keybuk: I don't want to be a member of the team
(09:56:50 AM) ***mvo check 87914
(09:56:57 AM) dholbach: grmbl
(09:57:01 AM) mvo: dholbach: yeah, please add me
(09:57:12 AM) dholbach: thanks mvo
(09:57:23 AM) seb128: lol
(09:57:40 AM) dholbach: Keybuk: done (#104553)
(09:57:51 AM) Keybuk: I'm doing everything I can to cut down my bug mail to levels where I can actually read and respond to the incoming bugs
(09:58:04 AM) dholbach: Keybuk: you're not getting bug mail - it goes to a list :)
(09:58:06 AM) Keybuk: so don't really want to join lp teams
(09:58:47 AM) Keybuk: (also it'll make people think I'm able to do sponsorship requests)
(09:59:00 AM) dholbach: fine with me
(09:59:00 AM) Keybuk: http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html
(09:59:19 AM) Keybuk: doesn't look like there's anything new on there
(09:59:21 AM) Keybuk: or any changes from last time
(09:59:28 AM) Keybuk: pedro_: ?
(09:59:36 AM) pedro_: no there's nothing new on there
(10:00:16 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:00:18 AM) Keybuk: AOB?
(10:00:22 AM) pedro_: leann add the date reported column to it and also if the report is less than 10 days old it will mark it as yellow
(10:00:45 AM) Keybuk: ah, then there are two new things on there
(10:00:48 AM) Keybuk: both for human-theme
(10:01:00 AM) Keybuk: ah, just tasks on bug #99508
(10:01:02 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:01:03 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 99508 in compiz "Window titlebar displayed not right with compiz enabled" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/99508
(10:01:04 AM) mvo: two of the compiz ones require a new upstream snapshot, I guess I need to talk with steve about this
(10:01:09 AM) pedro_: change of state IIRC
(10:01:28 AM) mvo: the "Wrongly placed maximized window with cloned display" ones
(10:01:33 AM) Keybuk: I didn't see any additions to ReportingPage today? nothing to report for the last week?
(10:01:43 AM) pitti: nothing fancy from me
(10:01:55 AM) pitti: "bug fixing, and more of it"
(10:02:24 AM) mvo: upgrade test from gutsy->hardy is running, 20.000 pkgs, VM needs 2.8Gb ram to run smoothly and is 24h later at 15%
(10:02:54 AM) Keybuk: ok, adjourned
(10:03:03 AM) Keybuk: thanks all
(10:03:20 AM) mvo: thanks
(10:03:20 AM) pitti: thansk all
(10:03:25 AM) seb128: thanks
(10:03:56 AM) kwwii: thanks
(10:04:12 AM) MacSlow: obrigado}}}
