{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
 
   08:59         Keybuk         ok
   08:59         Keybuk         let's get this show on the road
   08:59         Keybuk         sabdfl is at dinner, so won't be coming
   08:59         Keybuk         and mdz has buggered off on holiday
   09:00         mjg59          Ok
   09:00         mjg59          So what have we got lined up for us today?
   09:00         jdong          the crowd ain't as big compared to CC
                                meetings, huh?
   09:00         jbailey        Keybuk: So as in, you don't have quorum
                                anyway?
   09:00         Keybuk         is Jani Monoses here?
   09:00         janimo         here
   09:00         Keybuk         jbailey: we've always considered two a quorum
   09:00         jbailey        Ah, cool.
   09:01         Keybuk         janimo: you've proposed yourself for main
                                upload privileges
   09:01         janimo         yes, for xfce/xubuntu packages
   09:01         janimo         mainly for that
   09:01         Keybuk         would you like to make your case
   09:01         Keybuk         well, I can certainly say you've been doing a
                                lot of work on them
   09:02         Keybuk         have you been doing much work with the
                                existing MOTU team?
   09:02         janimo         I'd like xubuntu to be supported and CDs
                                built for it for dapper
   09:02         janimo         Keybuk, not much MOTU work recently
   09:02         janimo         only xfce related uploads
   === Burgwork [n=corey@S010600131016cf6f.gv.shawcable.net] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   09:02         Keybuk         how would you like to improve xfce's
                                integration with ubuntu?
                                Janimo: the point is that once you get main
   09:02         fabbione       upload privileges, you can theoretically
                                upload everything
   09:02         janimo         it is well integrated already, but a few more
                                things to add
   09:03         fabbione       there is no distinction at the moment
   09:03         janimo         add gdm and make it a CD
   09:03         janimo         fabbione I know
                                I have uploaded an informationa
   09:03         janimo         XubuntuDapperRoadmap spec today with more
                                details
   09:03         mjg59          janimo: So, what does Xubuntu involve?
   09:04         janimo         ubuntu standard + x +xfce packages
   09:04         janimo         + a few other apps
   === ogra would welcome xcfe in main as well as someone who cares for it
   like janimo does, in edubuntu the question for a slim desktop comes up a
   lot
   09:04         janimo         right now we have xubuntu-desktop
   09:04         janimo         the mmain gripe of usres is missing a CD
                                install
   09:04         janimo         that would be alot easier if all packages
                                were in main
   09:05         mjg59          janimo: Is the aim to be as well-integrated
                                as Ubuntu?
   09:05         janimo         mjg59, rigth
   09:05         mjg59          That is, should Xubuntu aim to fulfil the
                                same specifications?
   09:05         janimo         easy to use, always free things like that you
                                mean? sure
   09:05         janimo         or technical specs?
   09:05         fabbione       janimo: both
                                janimo: I was thinking more in terms of
   09:05         mjg59          NetworkMagic, power management, that sort of
                                hting
   09:05         janimo         well then answer is yes for both
   09:06         fabbione       it needs to match the same quality and
                                consistency
   09:06         janimo         yes, I intedn to work on power mgmt
   09:06         Keybuk         how would you plan to get others to help with
                                the packaging work?
   09:06         janimo         and most of the related specs as I cab
   09:06         janimo         Keybuk, it is not much packaging involved, as
                                we use debian packages
                                I certainly think that the aim for anything
   09:06         mjg59          in the *ubuntu namespace should be to provide
                                roughly the same level of user experience,
                                but it sounds like you're aiming for that
   09:06         janimo         I intend to work with them
   09:07         Keybuk         have you had to make many modifications to
                                the packages yourself so far?
   09:07         mjg59          janimo: Have you been working with them so
                                far?
                                mjg59, yes aiming for that but xfce is not
   09:07         janimo         the same user experience as gnome/kde even
                                upstream so that transaltes here too
   09:07         janimo         Keybuk, yes a few
   09:07         mjg59          janimo: Sure, I realise that there are
                                limitations
   09:07         janimo         to packaging and to code in packages
                                so you feel you know your way around
   09:08         Keybuk         Debian/Ubuntu packaging?  have you done much
                                else besides XFCE?
   09:08         janimo         Keybuk, some of the changes are not yet in
                                debian, some are not upstream xfce either
   09:08         janimo         but pushing them actively
                                there are even heavy technical differences
                                between edubuntu/ubuntu (i.e. edubuntu
   09:08         ogra           installs a bunch odf server stuff which
                                doesnt comply with the "no open ports"
                                directive)
   09:08         ogra           so i wouldnt see the binding to tight
   09:08         janimo         Keybuk, I have been a MOTU since about before
                                Hoary and worked on some merges back then
   09:09         janimo         but since then it is mostly xfce related
                                changes or new packages
   09:09         janimo         all starting with xubuntu-
   09:09         mjg59          janimo: Is there a reasonable xfce userbase
                                right now?
   09:09         Keybuk         dholbach, ogra: have you worked with janimo
                                much?
   09:09         janimo         some in universe some only in REVU
   09:09         janimo         mjg59, I don;t know how to estimate that :)
   09:09         ogra           Keybuk, yes, for a while, he's a longstanding
                                member of MOTU
   09:09         mjg59          janimo: Heh. Well, do you get bugs filed?
   09:09         janimo         I'd say 10%-15% of linux users?
   09:10         janimo         duno honestly
   09:10         janimo         yes
   09:10         janimo         but xfce has a _lot_ less bugs then gnome/kde
                                even upstream, it is a lot simpler
   09:10         mjg59          Sure
   09:10         Keybuk         anyone else got any questions for janimo ?
                                But it sounds like there are people using the
   09:10         mjg59          packages, and from what ogra says it sounds
                                like there would be good reason to have them
                                in main
   09:10         janimo         mjg59, yes
   09:11         fabbione       janimo: are you familiar with security?
                                I get the occasional thank you eamail from
   09:11         janimo         time to time , with the request for CD images
                                :)
   09:11         fabbione       if so how much?
   09:11         fabbione       how much can you commit for it?
                                mjg59, absolutely ... we had a lightweight
   09:11         ogra           target for hoary already which wasnt
                                completed, xubuntu might fill that gap
   09:11         janimo         fabbione, not much besides occasional peeks
                                at bugtrack but I am cautios
   09:11         pitti          btw, there has been one XFCE related
                                vulnerability so far, in 2000
   09:11         janimo         fabbione,commit for security?
   09:12         janimo         pitti, another code base xfce3
   09:12         janimo         so 0 actually :)
   09:12         pitti          janimo: right, what I wanted to say is,
                                that's damn few
                                janimo: if xubuntu enters main, it also means
   09:12         fabbione       providing -security support. are you ready to
                                commit to it?
   09:12         janimo         shame on them
   09:12         ogra           heh
   09:12         janimo         fabbione, yes both secutiry and updates
   09:12         ogra           according to pitti that might be a boring job
                                :)
   09:13         janimo         indeed :)
                                janimo: does xfce ship with any suid programs
   09:13         pitti          for doing hardware magic? does it handle
                                hardware at all?
   09:13         janimo         no suid programs
   09:13         pitti          janimo: like automounting, networking, etc.?
   09:13         jdong          pitti: I believe it uses g-v-m to handle
                                those things
                                my one comment is that we work very much as a
                                team, and so far you've been mostly working
                                alone on these packages -- so once in main,
   09:13         Keybuk         you'll need to both help others work with
                                your packages and also be ready to sponsor
                                uploads for the MOTU ... are you happy with
                                that?
   09:13         janimo         for automounting we will use ivman now
                                kubuntu does not
   09:13         janimo         jdong, no ivman
   09:13         jdong          ah, ok
   09:14         jdong          been quite a while since I've used XFCE
   09:14         janimo         Keybuk, I am happy
   09:14         ogra           Keybuk, he worked a lot with crimsun
   09:14         ogra           in a two man team
   09:14         ogra           (its not the one man show it seems o be)
   09:14         Keybuk         mjg59: any further questions?
   09:14         pitti          that's twice as big as our edubuntu and
                                kubuntu teams :)
                                Keybuk I have been working alone since MOTUs
   09:14         janimo         are very busy with merging and their other
                                teams
   09:15         ogra           pitti, yeah
   09:15         janimo         crimsun is swamped with multimedia related
                                work
                                janimo: It would be good to see work stick
   09:15         mjg59          fairly closely with the Debian packagers, but
                                I think you've said that you plan to work
                                with them already
   09:15         sivang         is this TB meeting?
   09:15         janimo         mjg59, I just got an alioth acount today to
                                get svn commit access
   09:15         pitti          sivang: yes
   09:15         janimo         to help pushing our changes up
   09:15         mjg59          janimo: Cool
   09:16         mjg59          Keybuk: Ok, I think I'm done
                                janimo: xfce has a file manager I
   09:16         Riddell        believe.  does it have a web browser, music
                                player, console? (to pick the apps I have
                                open just now)
                                janimo: that's good, so the Debian
   09:16         pitti          maintainers acknowledge you as a
                                co-maintainer then?
   09:16         Keybuk         ok, your vote?
   09:16         janimo         Riddell, I think we'll use thunar as  the
                                default fimemanager
   09:16         mjg59          +1 from me
   09:16         janimo         we'll have firefox, xfmedai, xfce4-teminal
   09:16         Keybuk         +1 from me also
   09:16         Keybuk         Janimo: welcome aboard
   09:16         pitti          congrats janimo
   09:16         janimo         thanks all :)
   09:17         ogra           YAY, welcome janimo
   09:17         janimo         nice to join the team
   09:17         ogra           :)
   09:17         mjg59          Ok, moving on? How many developer candidates
                                have we got today?
   09:17         janimo         I'll probably help out with other main work
                                if needed
   09:17         Keybuk         Johnny Mast, are you here?
   09:17         ajmitch        janimo: good work :)
   09:17         Keybuk         Brandon Hale, are you here?
   09:17         janimo         pitti, yes they are ok with me working close
                                woth them
   09:18         ogra           Keybuk, tseng is already in ubuntu core
   09:18         Keybuk         you know, I thought he was
   09:18         ogra           (brandon hale)
   09:18         Keybuk         didn't mentally match the name
   09:18         sivang         welcome janimo , to main? :)
   09:18         Keybuk         jdong: I can see you're here
   09:18         jdong          :)
   09:18         janimo         sivang, yes :)
   09:18         Keybuk         ok
   09:18         Keybuk         jdong: you've applied to join the MOTU team
   09:18         sivang         janimo: big congrets :)
   09:18         ogra           is vuntz here ?
   09:18         jdong          Keybuk: correct
                                so, I guess, first off, what have you been
   09:19         Keybuk         working on so far and what would you like to
                                work on?
                                Well, my work is primarily concentrated in
   09:19         jdong          Backports, and Backports does the most work
                                in Universe
                                as a result, sometimes the Backports team
   09:19         jdong          needs to have changes done in Universe and
                                such
   09:20         jdong          currently, the Team has Mez and slomo who are
                                on MOTU
   09:20         mjg59          jdong: Is that "the most work in Universe" or
                                "does most of its work in Universe"?
   09:20         jdong          and at times that's not enough
   09:20         vuntz          ogra: I'm here, but I'm going away for ~30
                                minutes right now
   09:20         ogra           vuntz, just because you are on the list
                                mjg59: a combination of both: Most requested
   09:20         jdong          packages are in Universe, and most "issues"
                                we find are also stemming from Universe
                                packages
   09:21         Keybuk         right, but you don't upload the resulting
                                backports to universe?
   09:21         jdong          no, I don't
                                jdong: Your phrasing seemed to suggest that
   09:21         mjg59          backports did more work in universe than any
                                other group
   09:21         ogra           Keybuk, the process for backports is a bit
                                different ...
   09:21         jdong          mjg59: maybe I'm having a bad day with
                                phrasing things :)
   09:21         mjg59          jdong: Ok, as long as that's not what you
                                meant, then fine :)
   09:22         ogra           Keybuk, elmo just triggeres them if jdong
                                tested locally ...
   09:22         jdong          and ogra has been nagging for me to join MOTU
                                too :-D
   09:22         jdong          ever since day one
   09:22         Keybuk         ogra: so you'd support jdong's application?
   09:22         mjg59          jdong: So how would being an MOTU change
                                things for you?
   09:22         ogra           jdong, but i can hardly judge your packaging
                                skills ...
                                mjg59, if changes have to be made to a
   09:23         ogra           package to backport fine, someone has to
                                touch the package ...
                                mjg59: Well, first off I hope that it would
   09:23         jdong          mean less of me bitching at others... and I
                                can do work without relying on others
                                mjg59, so it would be a requirement to have
   09:24         ogra           one of the backporters being able to do that,
                                Mez is rarely here recently, he wanted to
                                take that role
                                ogra: I'm pretty experienced with packaging,
   09:24         jdong          but not with the specific Debian tools used
                                to upload and such
   09:24         mjg59          jdong: Well, we'd prefer there to be no
                                bitching regardless of the situation...
   09:24         jdong          mjg59: I suppose _nagging_ would be a better
                                word :)
   09:24         mjg59          Heh. Sure.
   09:24         jdong          mjg59: I'm known as the one who walks in to
################# ubuntu-motu just to ask for stuff to be done
                                the thing is that if a package needs minor
   09:25         ogra           changes, they have to be done (uploaded) by
                                someone with upload rights ....
   09:25         ajmitch        jdong: who has worked with you on packaging
                                changes that can vouch for those skills?
   09:25         ogra           so that will either put a burden on MOTU or
                                we get and uploader from the bp team
                                ajmitch: that's the thing -- I haven't really
   09:25         jdong          needed to do anything of that magnitude with
                                MOTU before
   09:26         jdong          ajmitch: usually the types of changes
                                Backports needs are very minor
   09:26         jdong          i.e. changing a version on b-d's, etc
                                and i'd like to see jdong in that role since
   09:26         ogra           he merely leads backports ... but you would
                                have to work a bit with the motu to prove
                                your skills i public
   09:26         ogra           s/i/in
   09:26         jdong          ogra: yes, absolutely :)
   09:27         Keybuk         ogra: would you preferred he worked with you
                                before being granted upload rights?
   09:27         jdong          ogra: and I'll try to spend time working on
                                other stuff in MOTU too
   09:27         \sh            g
                                Keybuk, not particulary with me personally
   09:27         ogra           but with the MOTU team so he can get some
                                votes for his knowledge
   09:27         \sh            evening...too late
   09:28         ajmitch        hi \sh
                                ok, I tend to concur; I'd prefer jdong to
   09:28         Keybuk         work a bit more with you guys so you feel
                                confident about his skills first
   09:28         ogra           Keybuk, i simply cant judge his skills ince i
                                never used any backport in ubuntu yet
   09:28         Keybuk         mjg59: what do you think?
   09:28         ogra           jdong, that would be rad :)
                                I'm broadly in favour, but I'd agree with
   09:29         mjg59          Keybuk - some more time doing general MOTU
                                work would be good
                                I agree with ogra...I think it's better to
   09:29         \sh            have an overview about his skills in
                                common...
   09:29         \sh            for this, he has to come more often to -motu
                                jdong: would you mind working a bit more
   09:29         Keybuk         closely with the MOTU team, and come back at
                                the next TB meeting when they should be able
                                to praise your skills
   09:29         jdong          Keybuk: sure
   === jbailey [n=jbailey@modemcable139.249-203-24.mc.videotron.ca] has
   joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:30         jdong          I'll try to be in #ubuntu-motu more often
   09:30         jdong          and follow what the guys there want me to do
                                :)
                                ok, we'll postpone to then; your work looks
                                great so far to me, but we're very much a
   09:30         Keybuk         team distro, so come to the next TB meeting
                                with praise from the MOTU team for your work
                                so far there
   09:30         jdong          ok, cool
   === Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                                ok ... now is anyone else here waiting for
   09:31         Keybuk         universe upload privileges who hasn't made it
                                to a meeting since they proposed themselves?
                                jdong: work with us on the rest of the
   09:31         \sh            merges...and bug fixes has to be done soon. I
                                think we agree to help you out with the
                                uploads..so we can see your work
   09:31         Keybuk         jbailey: are you fit and rebooted, or do you
                                need a bit more time?
   09:32         jbailey        Keybuk: I'm rebooted.
   09:32         jdong          \sh: absolutely I need much more packaging
                                experience for MOTU :)
   09:32         Keybuk         ok, Mirror Status, the floor is yours
   09:32         jdong          I just want to take the first step today :)
   09:32         ogra           jdong, thats really great, i'm happy you do
                                that :)
   09:32         mjg59          jbailey: Can you explain what the problem is,
                                and how we should deal with it?
   09:32         ogra           (you know how log i nagged you for it ;) )
   === jbailey looks to see which order he put them in.
   09:33         jdong          :)
                                mjg59: The mirrors occasionally have trouble,
   09:33         jbailey        running out of space, or failing to update,
                                etc.
                                mjg59: Right now the only way to get this
   09:33         jbailey        information is by pinging James or Karl
                                directly.
   09:33         jdong          more than occasionally
   09:33         ogra           yes, the us mirror seems to be a PITA
   09:34         elmo           jbailey: you realise there's LP specs about
                                this, right?
                                That means that getting this information is
   09:34         jbailey        limited by timezones / availability of two
                                people.
   09:34         jbailey        elmo: Right.  But that means that it's 6
                                months to a year away.
   09:34         elmo           jbailey: says who?
   09:34         jbailey        elmo: I don't remember seeing it on the
                                priority list for dapper.
                                The problem is right now when we know there
   09:35         jbailey        are mirror problems, that information is not
                                exposed in a useful way.
   09:35         Keybuk         so what would you propose instead of the LP
                                spec?
   09:36         elmo           when was the last time US mirror was broken
                                just out of interest?
   09:36         elmo           because AFAIK, it hasn't broken since we
                                started pushing it with a two stage push
   09:36         jbailey        elmo: Mmm.  Right before ubz I think?
   09:36         elmo           and that was ? weeks? ago
   === seb128 [n=seb128@ubuntu/member/seb128] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:36         elmo           jbailey: ...
   09:36         jdong          elmo: I got some md5sum mismatches fairly
                                recently (2 weeks?)
   09:36         jbailey        elmo: This was intended to come up at the
                                last TB meeting, which I couldn't make.
   09:36         Keybuk         tbh, I don't see anything here for the TB to
                                decide
   09:36         Keybuk         there's a LP spec for it, which is the
                                long-term solution
   09:36         jbailey        Keybuk: mdz refered me to the TB
   09:37         Keybuk         and the short-term solution appears to be
                                "ask elmo"
   09:37         jbailey        Right.
   09:37         elmo           jdong: dude, you tried to convince me you had
                                md5sum mismatches for breezy on archive.u.c
   09:37         jbailey        I'm saying that short term solution isn't
                                always useful.
   09:37         Keybuk         which is true for most of our archive
                                management right now
   09:37         jdong          elmo: Maybe my weeks are off :)
                                Right now that request is that we ask the
   09:37         jbailey        archive administrators to keep a status board
                                of some sort on mirror status so that known
                                issues can be looked at right away.
   09:37         jdong          elmo: but the first few weeks of Breezy's
                                release
   09:38         elmo           jbailey: why on earth are you going to the TB
                                in the first instance with this?
   09:38         ogra           which would be pre ubz
   09:38         jbailey        elmo: mdz refered me to the tb.
   09:38         Keybuk         imo, mdz should have referred you to elmo
   09:39         jbailey        Who ultimately makes the decisions about how
                                these issues are handled?
   09:40         elmo           the same person who ultimately makes all
                                decisions?
   09:40         Keybuk         mdz, sabdfl, elmo, etc.
                                So it was probably refered here for
   09:40         jbailey        discussion at a time when all the parties are
                                generally available.
                                jbailey: in any event my point is that you
   09:40         elmo           didn't even try asking the people who
                                currently run the mirrors
   09:40         elmo           which is, umm, nice
   09:40         elmo           really
   09:41         jdong          I gotta run, be back in like 15-20 minutes,
                                hopefully in time :)
   09:41         Keybuk         mjg59: anything from your corner?
                                elmo: My contact for distro things when
   09:41         jbailey        driven by customers asking me questions is
                                always mdz.
   09:41         elmo           jbailey: don't be obtuse
                                Without knowing why mdz thought it should be
   09:41         mjg59          brought up here, I'm not sure we can do too
                                much
   09:41         elmo           if a customer asked you about gcc, you'd go
                                to doko, not mdz
   09:41         mjg59          Can we punt this until mdz is around?
   09:41         jbailey        elmo: Actually, no.  I'd email mdz.
   09:41         jbailey        Unless it was somthing I thought could be
                                answered very quickly.
                                yeah, that's my best suggestion right now ...
   09:41         Keybuk         wait until mdz is back, to see whether he had
                                any reason for bring it here
   09:41         elmo           well maybe the TB should look at how you
                                communicate with the distro team then ...
   09:42         Keybuk         until then, jbailey: 1) make sure the LP spec
                                meets your needs
                                presumably the idea of stuff going through
   09:42         Kamion         mdz is so that mdz can manage how much distro
                                team time is taken up by escalated support
   09:42         Keybuk         and 2) buy elmo some flowers, and ask him
                                nicely?
                                Kamion: Yes, as well as tracking and
   09:42         jbailey        stuff.  Before he was a bit surprised that I
                                had been asking the distro team for things
                                and that he hadn't been aware of it.
   09:43         Keybuk         ok, so the advisory list thing
                                you're suggesting some kind of process that
   09:43         Keybuk         involves compiling a list of packages in
***************** -updates and what they chance?
   09:43         Keybuk         uh, change?
   09:44         Keybuk         similar to the existing security stuff?
                                Right - not necessarily a list, but an
   09:44         jbailey        explanation or advisory by email as to why
                                updates are coming out.
   09:44         pitti          oh, interesting idea
                                The notification applet stuff isn't always
   09:44         jbailey        sufficient to explain what's going on, or
                                that it's coming.
   09:44         pitti          but isn't apt-listchanges something that
                                should come close?
   09:44         Kamion         Could amber be modified to do -updates?
   09:44         jbailey        So in some ways it can look like a security
                                update that showed up without an advisory.
                                (speaking as an occasional -updates approver,
   09:45         Kamion         I don't want to have to construct those
                                things by hand)
   09:45         jbailey        Kamion: Right.  I don't have any suggestions
                                as to the machanics of this.
                                Certainly I'd be willing to construct these
   09:45         jbailey        for the -updates that I do and add them to
                                the mix somehow.
                                from my corner, yes something like this would
   09:45         Keybuk         be nice, propose it on #ubuntu-devel and
                                rally people round to figure out how to do it
                                well, for updates we maybe don't need md5sums
   09:46         pitti          and such; but still some template would be
                                nice for version numbers etc.
   09:46         mjg59          Right. I think it's reasonable to tell people
                                why we're giving them an update.
                                pitti: I'm not sure how a -update is
   09:46         jbailey        different than a security patch in that
                                sense.
   09:46         Keybuk         so +1 from me, sounds like a nice thing to do
   09:47         pitti          jbailey: well, as long as amber generates
                                these, I don't particularly care
                                pitti: In any event we're delivering them a
   09:47         jbailey        package, so it would be nice to have the
                                usual trappings.  md5sum is the easiest part
                                to generate. =)
   09:47         Keybuk         mjg59: ?
   === seb128_ [n=seb128@ANancy-151-1-45-177.w83-196.abo.wanadoo.fr] has
   joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === loogaroo [n=manuel@u-124-094.adsl.univie.ac.at] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   09:48         mjg59          +1
   09:48         Keybuk         ok
   09:48         Keybuk         jbailey: if you could lead discussion and
                                implementation for it, go for it
   09:48         jbailey        No problem, i'll follow that through.
   09:48         pitti          Kamion: how are -updates uploads published?
   09:49         Keybuk         next thing on the agenda is me ...
                                Kamion: certainly there is a girl for it
   09:49         pitti          which could be modified to spit out template
                                emails?
                                this is probably a no-brainer, but I didn't
   09:49         Keybuk         want to go ahead and make such a change
                                without at least checking with some other
                                people first
   === seb128_ [n=seb128@ANancy-151-1-45-177.w83-196.abo.wanadoo.fr] has left
## ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
   09:49         ogra           Keybuk, breaking the wrold again ?
   09:49         jbailey        Mmmm.  Modified girl.
   09:49         jbailey        (sounds ike an ingrediant)
   === seb128_ [n=seb128@ANancy-151-1-45-177.w83-196.abo.wanadoo.fr] has
   joined #ubuntu-meeting
                                currently there's no useful place during boot
   09:49         Keybuk         to put things like pid files, control
                                sockets, dhcp leases, etc.
   09:50         pitti          /var/run isn't useful?
                                /var/run should be that useful place, but
   09:50         Keybuk         it's either on the root filesystem and not
                                yet r/w or on another filesystem altogether
   09:50         mjg59          (See NFS-root cases)
   09:50         Keybuk         it's fine once in rc2.d, but in rcS.d it's
                                sub-optimal
   09:50         jbailey        Keybuk: Is this one beast to add to your
                                movemount collection?
   09:50         jbailey        +more
   09:50         Keybuk         so my proposal is to make /var/run a tmpfs
                                that's always available
   09:51         pitti          Keybuk: when would you mount that?
                                which would mean anything writing into a
   09:51         Keybuk         sub-directory of it would need to make that
                                sub-directory if it doesn't already exist
   09:51         Kamion         pitti: no it's just kelly -z
   09:51         Kamion         pitti: which is just the thing that does
                                accepted->installed
   09:51         Keybuk         pitti: probably in the initramfs, and moved
                                to /root/var/run
                                Keybuk: if you mount it in initramfs, then a
   09:51         pitti          later mount of /var in fstab would shadow it,
                                right? and mouting it late would defeat the
                                purpose?
   09:51         Keybuk         then if not already mounted, in the first
                                init script
                                and in the mountall script, if we mount /var
   09:52         Keybuk         as something else, so a move dance to keep it
                                there
   09:52         pitti          heh
   09:53         Keybuk         so that's it really, is this sane or should I
                                go find some other solution?
                                for the records, we already fixed one or two
   09:53         pitti          packages to create /var/run/<package subdir>,
                                but it certainly needs some more fixes to
                                have complete coverage
                                LSB does allow for packages to rely on the
   09:53         pitti          existence of /var/run/directory, so it could
                                give us some hard time with keeping up
   09:53         pitti          (especially for universe)
   09:53         pitti          but I didn't actually count the number of
                                affected packages
   09:54         pitti          the fix is trivial, though
   09:54         Keybuk         *nods*
                                Keybuk: So the main downside is that we may
   09:55         mjg59          need to alter some packages that expect
                                subdirectories to be persistant?
   09:55         \sh            pitti: if this can be done after UVF...no
                                problem with me ,)
   09:55         pitti          \sh: it's a trivial bug fix, sure
   09:55         Keybuk         mjg59: right
   09:55         pitti          \sh: just a mkdir -p and a chmod/chown in the
                                init script
   09:55         mjg59          Keybuk: Hm. I worry a bit about it being a
                                semantic change.
   09:56         \sh            pitti: so we need a list of all packages who
                                are bringing in some init.d scripts...
                                Keybuk: Do we have any idea how many packages
   09:56         mjg59          it would break, and have you discussed this
                                with Debian at all?
   09:56         pitti          \sh: no, packages which put stuff into
                                /var/run
   09:56         pitti          \sh: and either ship a directory in /var/run,
                                or create it in postinst
                                in main, I've found only one or two that it
   09:56         Keybuk         breaks, and the Debian maintainer of both
                                seemed happy to accept the patch
   09:56         fabbione       there are also packages that have /var/run/
                                in the code...
   09:56         Keybuk         most of them already have patches to make it
                                work
   09:57         mjg59          Keybuk: Ok, sounds good
   09:57         pitti          sounds like 'early breakage'
   09:57         \sh            I need an aspirin, a tea, some drugs, and a
                                list of packages for later..
                                \sh: this can add up to the list of remaining
   09:58         sivang         merges, or just add this when working on a
                                merge :)
   09:58         sivang         s/add/patch/
   09:59         Keybuk         ok, any further business?
   09:59         Keybuk         jdong: are you here?
                                sivang: if you have such a package to merge
   09:59         \sh            ... do it now...or after uvf and when all the
                                merges are done
   10:00         ogra           <jdong> I gotta run, be back in like 15-20
                                minutes, hopefully in time :)
   10:00         ogra           that was 20min ago
   10:00         Keybuk         yeah, sadly I've got to run in a minute too
                                :-/
   10:00         Keybuk         the answer to jdong is the same as jbailey,
                                make sure the LP spec is right
   10:01         Keybuk         several already exist, from what I can see
   10:01         ogra           i thought Mez worked on one at ubz
   10:01         Keybuk         ok, end of meeting then
   10:01         Keybuk         the next TB meeting will be in 4 weeks time I
                                guess
   10:01         Keybuk         as two-weeks is the 27th
   10:01         mjg59          Wow. That was swift.
                                well...I think there is no need for a new
   10:01         \sh            process...because elmo is processing all the
                                request when he has time...and thats pretty
                                often..
   10:02         Kamion         oh, is there time for me to slot in one
                                question?
   10:02         ogra           yup... and LP is near (somehow)
   10:02         Kamion         forgot to put it on the agenda
   10:02         Keybuk         meh, go on then
   10:02         jdong          were my minutes too long?
   10:02         Kamion         if not, no worries
   10:02         Keybuk         is it quick?
   10:02         Kamion         so Debian is in the middle of killing off
                                base-config
   10:02         Kamion         and moving the entire installation to the
                                first stage
   10:02         Kamion         this would kill off a fair few of my bugs, so
                                I'm inclined to follow suit
   10:02         pitti          that sounds nice actually
   10:03         Kamion         my question is whether this is an utterly
                                insane thing to do for dapper?
   10:03         Keybuk         sounds nice to me, we've already done some of
                                that?
   10:03         Kamion         yes, but not the big long package
                                installation step
   10:03         Keybuk         ultimately I think that's possibly your call
                                ;)
   10:03         jdong          Keybuk: you can drop my item from the agenda,
                                I don't think it'll be necessary as of now
   10:03         Keybuk         you'd judge better than anyone else whether
                                it's doable
                                the downside is that it means that it takes
   10:03         Kamion         longer to find out whether your
                                newly-installed system actually boots
   10:03         jdong          btw elmo thx very much for pushing those
                                backports through today!
   10:04         ogra           and it will slow down the installation, no ?
                                since you do everything from CD ?
                                Keybuk: ok, I thought it was a big enough
   10:04         Kamion         change that I ought to bring it up, but if
                                that's your feeling then fine, I'll judge by
                                how quickly the code matures upstream
   10:04         Kamion         ogra: no, actually it'll speed it up because
                                we can throw away archive-copier
   10:04         ogra           ah, k
   10:04         ogra           yes, thats a 10min step less ...
   10:04         Kamion         there'll be some extra seeking back and
                                forward, but I think it'll be dwarfed
   === sivang wil be waiting to test those images :)
   10:05         Kamion         righto, thanks
 

</pre>
