{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===
TZ UTC -4
<pre>
(03:59:56 PM) cjwatson: ok, just missing Adilson now, so I guess we'll start
(04:00:07 PM) cjwatson: no non-regular business for today, unless there are any late additions to the agenda?
(04:00:20 PM) ***agoliveira waves all
(04:00:32 PM) cjwatson: I hope everyone had an enjoyable/productive sprint and got home safely
(04:00:48 PM) pitti: yeah, it was great to see the office \o/
(04:00:57 PM) ***agoliveira agrees
(04:00:59 PM) keescook: such a view :)
(04:01:01 PM) cjwatson: or to your next port of call for those who stopped by GUADEC ;-)
(04:01:43 PM) fabb_laptop: 11 hours door to door was safe.. but .. looooooooong
(04:02:14 PM) dholbach: I had a great time too :-)
(04:02:19 PM) agoliveira: fabb_laptop: Only 11 hours? Lucky one...
(04:02:32 PM) BenC: I liked the pubs
(04:02:33 PM) fabb_laptop: agoliveira: for a 2 hours flight... it?s bad..
(04:02:48 PM) agoliveira: fabb_laptop: Ooops :)
(04:02:49 PM) cjwatson: I take it that's no further agenda items, then
(04:02:50 PM) fabb_laptop: BenC: just that or the beer in the pubs? :)
(04:03:01 PM) cjwatson: this is a general reminder that you have *four weeks* left to finish gutsy-targeted features
(04:03:13 PM) BenC: fabbboth :)
(04:03:20 PM) Meyvn: i'm just here to watch/listen/learn, that okay with you guys?
(04:03:23 PM) cjwatson: please ask for help early rather than late if you think that's going to be a problem
(04:03:26 PM) Mithrandir: Meyvn: yes
(04:03:29 PM) cjwatson: Meyvn: sure
(04:03:45 PM) Mithrandir: cjwatson: I need ten more people and a pony, but I suspect I should tell mdz that, not you.
(04:03:50 PM) dholbach: it's not a real agenda item, but I'd like to thank everybody who was involved in reviewing patches for https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/CodeReviews - it's been working out great and we had a lot of community contributed patches and uploads in the last few weeks
(04:04:02 PM) soren: Mithrandir: *G*
(04:04:03 PM) cjwatson: we don't have a lot of feature-rescuing resource this time round, largely due to projects like Mithrandir's ;-)
(04:04:10 PM) dholbach: (of course a reminder to all of you who still have patches unreviewed in their inbox ;-))
(04:04:15 PM) cjwatson: but something can probably be scrounged up if need be
(04:04:24 PM) tkamppeter: I have bad news, unfortunately.
(04:04:24 PM) kylem: we really should've gone to visit the pony when we were in london.
(04:04:24 PM) cjwatson: dholbach: *blush*. We have a reviewers meeting at the end of this one.
(04:04:25 PM) calc: btw i think that OOo 2.3 m221 is about to actually finish compiling the first time all the way through :)
(04:04:36 PM) pitti: dholbach: if there was a way to get a list of outstanding things...
(04:04:38 PM) calc: then i just need to update all the patches for ubuntu, etc, heh
(04:04:42 PM) pitti: calc: yay!
(04:04:43 PM) cjwatson: tkamppeter: oh?
(04:04:45 PM) cjwatson: calc: excellent
(04:04:46 PM) tkamppeter: It is about printerdrake.
(04:05:13 PM) cjwatson: printerdrake is not on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy this time round
(04:05:15 PM) tkamppeter: Ä¨ found a volunteer some weeks ago, and today he told me that he has not enough time and gave up.
(04:05:31 PM) dholbach: pitti: bugs assigned to yourself should be easy enough to 'filter out', especially bugs assigned to you with patches attached?
(04:05:38 PM) cjwatson: it's a target of opportunity, but if it doesn't work out, it's not a blocker for gutsy
(04:05:50 PM) cjwatson: sorry to hear that the volunteer dropped out though
(04:06:03 PM) pitti: dholbach: ah, 'patches attached' is good
(04:06:04 PM) fabb_laptop: just a quick reminder that i am going in holidays
(04:06:05 PM) tkamppeter: Will gutsy continue with the gnome-cups-manager then?
(04:06:10 PM) ***dholbach high-fives pitti
(04:06:11 PM) calc: so hopefully i'll have it in gutsy by end of next week, this weekend is pretty busy for me, being at the Four Seasons, heh
(04:06:21 PM) fabb_laptop: dholbach: if i have anything to sponsor, it might need to be reassigned
(04:06:33 PM) pitti: dholbach: you cannot search for bugs assigned to you *and* subscribed to a team (at least I don't know how)
(04:06:33 PM) dholbach: fabb_laptop: what do you mean?
(04:06:46 PM) dholbach: pitti: bugs to you with patches attached - does that help?
(04:06:52 PM) fabb_laptop: dholbach: i am going away in vacation for 3 weeks
(04:07:02 PM) amitk_: cjwatson: I too haven't had a whole lot of time to work on the power management spec for gutsy
(04:07:07 PM) fabb_laptop: dholbach: if you reassinged bugs to sponsor, it?s better to have them reassigned to somebody else
(04:07:09 PM) dholbach: fabb_laptop: alright
(04:07:19 PM) dholbach: fabb_laptop: thanks
(04:07:21 PM) cjwatson left the room (quit: Nick collision from services.).
(04:07:24 PM) cjwatson1 is now known as cjwatson
(04:07:34 PM) cjwatson left the room (quit: Nick collision from services.).
(04:07:52 PM) fabb_laptop: dholbach: i can only see one.. #71504.. if i don?t get around it tomorrow, i will let you know
(04:08:00 PM) pitti: and, mind you, that we need to do dapper.2, too
(04:08:06 PM) pitti: that'll take quite a lot of resources
(04:08:16 PM) cjwatson [n=cjwatson@82-69-40-219.dsl.in-addr.zen.co.uk] entered the room.
(04:08:19 PM) cjwatson: I hate all IRC clients
(04:08:27 PM) evand: screen + irssi
(04:08:29 PM) evand: never fails
(04:08:35 PM) kwwii: network fall down, go boom
(04:08:47 PM) bdmurray: evand: but is pwned by small animals right?
(04:08:48 PM) Mithrandir: cjwatson: pasted it on other ircnet since you didn't ping out there.
(04:08:51 PM) Mithrandir: evand: doesn't help when your DSL is the limiting factor.
(04:08:56 PM) dholbach: pitti: I'll file a bug on launchpad:   https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-main-sponsors/+bugs?field.assignee=pitti    is the same as     https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-main-sponsors/+bugs
(04:08:58 PM) soren: tkamppeter: What are the alternatives? system-config-printer?
(04:09:06 PM) evand: indeed on both
(04:09:07 PM) cjwatson: evand: this IS screen+irssi
(04:09:11 PM) evand: ah, well then
(04:09:23 PM) kylem: cjwatson, amnesiac?
(04:09:31 PM) cjwatson: meh *shrug*
(04:09:55 PM) tkamppeter: soren, perhaps, at least it is maintained. Perhaps I should sooner or later contribute concepts of printerdrake into it.
(04:10:06 PM) cjwatson: amitk_: power management is basically there for the benefit of mobile, although obviously the more that gets done the better ... I suspect it is ongoing
(04:10:24 PM) soren: tkamppeter: What's the difficulty with printerdrake anyway?
(04:10:31 PM) amitk_: UME part is going ok
(04:10:52 PM) cjwatson: amitk_: if you're short of time, the first thing to do is probably to try to set priorities
(04:10:52 PM) tkamppeter: One thing I already did is to extract the fuzzy-matching algorithm for printer makes and models of printerdrake into Foomatic. So one can use it from any program by calling a command line tool.
(04:11:19 PM) amitk_: but the generic Gutsy part is lagging. Powertop profiling, bugfixes to apps, laptop-testing group revival are on TODO
(04:11:27 PM) pitti: cjwatson: with our new task of dapper.2, we'll probably need to drop some specs anyway :/
(04:11:41 PM) cjwatson: pitti: dapper.2 is deliberately after feature freeze for that reason
(04:11:57 PM) tkamppeter: soren, the problem of printerdrake is that it uses a GUI based on a library from Mandriva and this library is not easy to port into a non-Mandriva distro (pitti has given up on that) and not of very high quality.
(04:12:00 PM) cjwatson: I know some planning has to be done, but I was very much hoping it wouldn't have to interact much
(04:12:02 PM) pitti: cjwatson: I'm afraid not, it should be released mid-August
(04:12:30 PM) cjwatson: pitti: I'm sure it was end of August in order to be between FF and beta. That's certainly what I discussed with mdz originally.
(04:12:32 PM) soren: tkamppeter: Ah, so we're yanking the good stuff out and shoving it into other components?
(04:12:42 PM) soren: tkamppeter: Makes sense, I gues.
(04:13:07 PM) amitk_: cjwatson: i guess prioritisation can happen offline with BenC and yourself
(04:13:07 PM) pitti: right, but that means we cannot wait until mid-August to start working on it; there is a lot of bugs we are supposed to tackle
(04:13:11 PM) tkamppeter: soren, probably this is the only solution if one does not find anyone to make a new GUI for printerdrake.
(04:13:21 PM) pitti: anyway, now that tribe3 is over, I'll look into the list and sort/assign it
(04:13:30 PM) soren: tkamppeter: Ah, *that* was what the volunteer was supposed to do?
(04:13:40 PM) cjwatson: amitk_: the spec is not fully written, which makes it difficult to do that sort of prioritisation; that should be the first priority
(04:13:56 PM) tkamppeter: Problem is that printerdrake is written in Perl and the Red Hat tool is written in Python. And I have never programmed in Python.
(04:14:10 PM) soren: tkamppeter: Ah.. And gnome-cups-manager is C. :)
(04:14:19 PM) dholbach: and c++ iirc
(04:14:34 PM) soren: dholbach: I haven't noticed any.
(04:14:36 PM) ***soren shrugs
(04:14:40 PM) pitti: dholbach: no, it's gnome :)
(04:14:44 PM) tkamppeter: Yes, the volunteer had to write a new GUI.
(04:15:09 PM) cjwatson: 21:11 <amitk_> UME part is going ok
(04:15:09 PM) cjwatson: 21:11 <cjwatson> amitk_: if you're short of time, the first thing to do is probably to try to set priorities
(04:15:10 PM) pitti: well, g-c-m's GUI isn't too bad
(04:15:11 PM) tkamppeter: For me it is easier to patch something into the gnome-cups-manager, as with C I am familiar.
(04:15:13 PM) cjwatson: oops
(04:15:36 PM) cjwatson: amitk_: anyway, thanks, made a note to look into that
(04:16:16 PM) BenC: amitk_: we can discuss it more on tomorrow's call as well
(04:16:30 PM) amitk_: ok
(04:16:48 PM) amitk_ is now known as amitk
(04:17:50 PM) soren: tkamppeter: If I were to decide, I'd prefer it going into system-config-printer. It seems to be less GNOME-centric than g-c-m, but g-c-m is surely an option, too.
(04:18:53 PM) tkamppeter: I also prefer to continue with system-config-printer, because it is maintained upstream. The GNOME tool has no upstream maintainer any more.
(04:19:12 PM) soren: tkamppeter: Oh dear.
(04:19:21 PM) tkamppeter: Less GNOME-centric is also good, as we have also Xubuntu.
(04:19:35 PM) soren: tkamppeter: Precisely. I belive they use s-c-p now.
(04:19:40 PM) pitti: (which already uses s-c-p, and it's in main)
(04:20:00 PM) soren: pitti: alright.
(04:20:35 PM) cjwatson: soren: since it sounds like you're interested, can you follow this up with Till and figure out what practical actions we can take for gutsy, if any? :-)
(04:20:41 PM) tkamppeter: So then we should also go for s-c-p in Ubuntu/Edubuntu, so that we do not need to maintain two tools.
(04:21:11 PM) soren: tkamppeter: I agree. I've glanced at it once, and it looks sensible, too.
(04:21:49 PM) soren: cjwatson: Um.. I guess I can squeeze it in somewhere.
(04:22:39 PM) tkamppeter: soren, what do you mean with "squeeze it in", your work time or the space on the Ubuntu CDs?
(04:22:47 PM) soren: tkamppeter: The former.
(04:23:18 PM) cjwatson: ACTION: soren and tkamppeter to discuss feasibility of system-config-printer in Ubuntu and come up with a plan
(04:23:32 PM) dendrobates: the sever group will be lucky to get it's own work done before the freeze.
(04:23:39 PM) pitti: it basically has a similar problem: rather horrible UI
(04:24:02 PM) cjwatson: dendrobates: low priority
(04:24:08 PM) cjwatson: I mean this, for soren ...
(04:24:26 PM) dendrobates: cjwatson: thanks
(04:25:01 PM) cjwatson: ok, no actions from the previous meeting AFAIK
(04:25:04 PM) cjwatson: release readiness update
(04:25:12 PM) cjwatson: well done to Hobbsee and pitti on tribe-3
(04:25:16 PM) soren: \o/
(04:25:21 PM) pitti: thanks
(04:25:26 PM) soren: Go Hobbsee and pitti!
(04:25:27 PM) ***asac hugs hobbsee and pitti 
(04:25:28 PM) pitti: cjwatson: I didn't prepare a special report
(04:25:29 PM) dholbach: congratulations Hobbsee and pitti!
(04:25:30 PM) cjwatson: there are a number of bugs which need to be followed up; I trust they're all suitably milestoned?
(04:25:35 PM) pitti: but we have a lot of bugs
(04:25:42 PM) pitti: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.milestone:Alist=471
(04:25:47 PM) pitti: so please start fixing them early
(04:25:58 PM) pitti: the most nasty one is https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/126964 ATM
(04:25:59 PM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 126964 in linux-source-2.6.22 "gutsy livefs causes random hangs or modprobe crashes" [Critical,New]
(04:26:15 PM) kwwii: just so that everyone knows, there is a lot of talk about getting a desktop wallpaper for Gutsy after all
(04:26:15 PM) pitti: which is not entirely understood yet, but ogra tracked it down pretty well already
(04:26:21 PM) asac: oh ... so couldn't fix that for release ... damn
(04:26:49 PM) pkl_: I'm currently looking into that bug also.
(04:26:49 PM) cjwatson: kwwii: artwork landing for feature freeze? :-)
(04:27:29 PM) kwwii: cjwatson: well, until now their is no official order for it, but I can imagine that that one piece will be coming in more towards the end of the deadlines if it all
(04:27:31 PM) cjwatson: evand and I have made a little bit of headway on the actual *reason* for bug 122645 as well as a workarround, I think
(04:27:32 PM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 122645 in ubiquity "manual partitioning hangs indefinitely" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/122645
(04:27:42 PM) evand: indeed
(04:27:55 PM) kwwii: cjwatson: no worries with other parts, they are all smaller updates
(04:27:59 PM) cjwatson: no progress on the gfxboot thing yet :(
(04:28:01 PM) ***evand kicks libgksu
(04:28:32 PM) cjwatson: pitti: a good few of those are In Progress, which is encouraging
(04:29:13 PM) cjwatson: but yes, if you get bored with your feature work and want a change, a bug is as good as a rest
(04:29:17 PM) cjwatson: </lie>
(04:29:38 PM) ***pitti wished he would actually have time for feature development :)
(04:29:57 PM) soren: pitti: Come on, you love reviewing my stuff.
(04:30:01 PM) cjwatson: pitti: says the man who's doing pretty well judging by https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy
(04:30:10 PM) ajmitch: soren: it may require bribes
(04:30:44 PM) cjwatson: ok, is there any other business for this meeting?
(04:30:45 PM) pitti: I guess I'll just get off IRC for a day :)
(04:31:21 PM) cjwatson: going once
(04:31:37 PM) cjwatson: going twice
(04:32:16 PM) cjwatson: all right, adjourned; those involved in code review please stay behind to go over the review list
(04:32:42 PM) cjwatson: dholbach: over to you
(04:32:45 PM) dholbach: alright... I'm quite happy with how https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/CodeReviews works out and the list looks quite good
(04:32:50 PM) agoliveira left the room.
(04:33:00 PM) cjwatson: who have we got still here?
(04:33:14 PM) dholbach: seb128 agreed to help with the assigning and triaging of them, so it should continue to work out when I'm at UbuntuLive and on holidays
(04:33:29 PM) dholbach: of course, if somebody wants to help out with triaging and assigning them, that'd be very nice
(04:33:32 PM) keescook: i'm still here.
(04:33:32 PM) ***pitti raises hand
(04:33:44 PM) asac: me
(04:33:50 PM) mathiaz: me
(04:33:52 PM) cjwatson: me
(04:33:56 PM) dholbach: wow!
(04:34:04 PM) dholbach: looks like a robust and solid process then!
(04:34:06 PM) dholbach: thanks a lot :-)
(04:34:10 PM) cjwatson: well, I'm here, but have sucked at reviewing to date
(04:34:13 PM) ***ajmitch is lurking
(04:34:14 PM) dholbach: ubuntu-universe-sponsors looks very good
(04:34:42 PM) cjwatson: I think the only one currently assigned to me is the grub merge, which I can still do - just too hard to do at the sprint
(04:34:45 PM) dholbach: ubuntu-main-sponsors should all be assigned if appropriate, so some people will need to look into their inboxes once they're back from conferences and all
(04:34:52 PM) dholbach: yeah
(04:35:29 PM) dholbach: also the initramfs-tools merge seemed quite big, which I assigned to BenC
(04:35:31 PM) cjwatson: is there any view of the list that lets us see all the assignees on one page?
(04:36:06 PM) dholbach: unfortunately not
(04:36:24 PM) dholbach: I think we could get it generated using python-lp-bugs
(04:36:28 PM) dholbach: I could set that up tomorrow
(04:36:32 PM) BenC: initramfs-tools is tricky, but I'll get to it tomorrow
(04:36:36 PM) cjwatson: dholbach: sounds good
(04:36:44 PM) dholbach: excellent - I'll send out a mail about that
(04:36:48 PM) cjwatson: dholbach: do you have any that you know are in need of an assignee at the moment?
(04:37:18 PM) dholbach: no, I think I got all covered that look 'good enough'
(04:37:22 PM) cjwatson: we'll save going down the full list until we have an easy view; I don't feel like opening 20-odd tabs
(04:37:34 PM) cjwatson: pitti: I can take bug 80513 off you if you like, as I touch -meta often enough anyway
(04:37:35 PM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 80513 in ubuntu-meta "ubuntu-meta does not include GPL in source tarball" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/80513
(04:37:38 PM) dholbach: I'll prod people about outstanding reviews in a week (so before I leave for holidays)
(04:37:38 PM) amitk left the room ("Konversation terminated!").
(04:38:03 PM) pitti: cjwatson: oh, good
(04:38:07 PM) dholbach: I feel the same way - I'll let you all know about an aggregated patch bugs list
(04:38:27 PM) cjwatson: ok then
(04:38:37 PM) cjwatson: ACTION: dholbach to prepare automatic list of review bugs with assignees
(04:39:12 PM) cjwatson: if that's all, then I guess we're done here too
(04:39:16 PM) dholbach: thanks a lot for helping out with that - I'm fairly confident, we'll cope quite well with incoming patches with that process soon enough
(04:39:54 PM) pitti: yeah, biggest problem is still that it is utterly hard to get a personal todo list
(04:40:27 PM) dholbach: pitti: let's see what solution I can come up with tomorrow - I'm happy to get your input on that
(04:40:30 PM) cjwatson: turns out I only have six bugs assigned to me with patches attached, so that's OK, but I can't see everyone else's
(04:40:34 PM) cjwatson: (easily)
(04:40:42 PM) Meyvn: i have some questions when you're done
(04:41:07 PM) dholbach: Meyvn: let's move to #ubuntu-devel, if you don't mind, so we can wrap up the meeting?
(04:41:11 PM) ***calc is here too
(04:41:18 PM) Meyvn: dholbach: sure
(04:41:22 PM) dholbach: super
(04:41:41 PM) pitti: NB that bugs like bug 126503 probably don't have a patch attached
(04:41:41 PM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 126503 in laptop-detect "please sync laptop-detect 0.13.2 from Debian unstable" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/126503
(04:42:10 PM) dholbach: pitti: I'll make sure to aggregate them
(04:42:19 PM) ***pitti hugs dholbach 
(04:42:37 PM) ***dholbach hugs super-pitti
(04:42:53 PM) dholbach: cjwatson: shall we adjourn?
(04:43:05 PM) cjwatson: let's
(04:43:12 PM) cjwatson: *gavel*
(04:43:24 PM) dholbach: have a nice evening/day - see you tomorrow :)
(04:43:24 PM) cjwatson: thanks for all your time this evening
</pre>
