{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC-4
{{{
(09:02:52 AM) Keybuk: ok, great
(09:03:02 AM) Keybuk: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2008-04-17
(09:03:14 AM) Keybuk: I didn't see any agenda items in activity reports, so before we begin, does anyone have anything to add?
(09:03:56 AM) Keybuk: also nothing new on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReportingPage this week?
(09:03:56 AM) MacSlow: nope
(09:04:59 AM) pitti: nothing interesting beyond 'works better than last week'
(09:05:39 AM) Keybuk: ok, should be a quick meeting then :-)
(09:05:44 AM) Keybuk: http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/
(09:05:49 AM) Keybuk: has one new item, bug #63450
(09:05:56 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 63450 in acpid "acpid install fails (because of hal running)" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/63450
(09:06:03 AM) Keybuk: at a glance, that looks like something where the patch wasn't good, so should be removed from the sponsoring team?
(09:06:07 AM) pitti: mvo and I are currently actively discussing this in #u-devel and the bug
(09:06:24 AM) mvo: Keybuk: its a nasty one unfortunately
(09:06:30 AM) pitti: it's not at all clear what the problem is, or how to solve it properly
(09:06:54 AM) mvo: well, the problem is that if you have hal installed and not acpid and then install acpid it will fail
(09:07:19 AM) mvo: because /proc/acpi/event is already claimed by hald
(09:07:20 AM) pitti: so, the patch with restarting hal didn't work?
(09:07:50 AM) mvo: it does, but not in the general case, I have a test-case when during upgrade hal is unapcked but not configured yet
(09:08:03 AM) mvo: then acpid tries to restart it and hal hangs (no idea why exactly but it does)
(09:08:23 AM) pitti: mvo: add a check for /var/run/hald/hald.pid to the snippet?
(09:08:26 AM) mvo: if I change the ordering (by adding a pre-depends on hal into acpid) it works apparently
(09:08:34 AM) Keybuk: ok, sounds like a nasty one :)
(09:08:41 AM) Keybuk: looks like you have it in hand though
(09:08:46 AM) Keybuk: nothing new in http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html today
(09:08:48 AM) mvo: pitti: yeah, sjoerd suggested this too, I try that next
(09:09:11 AM) pedro_: nop nothing new
(09:09:14 AM) Keybuk: couple of items from me:
(09:09:27 AM) Keybuk: - Performance Reviews are imminent, and some of you may have already received some of the mails for it
(09:09:42 AM) pitti: I got the announcement, but no personal ones with the URLs
(09:09:55 AM) pitti: (and I did check my spam filter :) )
(09:10:23 AM) Riddell: there isn't one, you just go to the URL and register and it'll send you another URL
(09:10:44 AM) Keybuk: - I won't worry about regular catch up calls again next week, to give you the maximum time for release work
(09:10:51 AM) Keybuk: but if you do want to chat, please don't hesistate to grab me
(09:12:56 AM) Keybuk: otherwise if there's no other business, I'll let you all get back to work?
(09:13:12 AM) pitti: CD testing seems reasonable so far, FWIW \o/
(09:13:51 AM) seb128: Keybuk: make sure we message that corporate users etc should wait for 8.04.1 if they want something rocking stable
(09:14:04 AM) seb128: there is no world is breaking issues but lot of annoying things still
(09:14:25 AM) pitti: they won't upgrade to hardy tomorrow anyway, I figure
(09:14:34 AM) pitti: not if you stayed on dapper on the desktop for that long
(09:14:50 AM) pitti: but it's important to have the .1 plan/announcement in the release notes, indeed
(09:19:50 AM) ***mpt drops a pin
(09:20:16 AM) pitti: mpt: I heared that!
(09:20:25 AM) ***MacSlow saw it
(09:20:34 AM) Keybuk: okok, adjourned ;)}}}
