{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 03 Feb at 16:02 &mdash; 16:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-02-03-16.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting 
==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:02.

==== Vivid Development ====
The discussion about "Vivid Development" started at 16:04.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:05)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
* '''Blueprints''' (16:11)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:12.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:13.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:15.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:15.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:16.

==== Announce next mtg ====
The discussion about "Announce next mtg" started at 16:17.

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, February 10th, 2015 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* beisner (43)
* ubottu (5)
* meetingology (3)
* smoser (2)
* caribou (2)
* smb (1)
* matsubara (1)
* arges (1)

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:02 <beisner> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb  3 16:02:08 2015 UTC.  The chair is beisner. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology> 

 16:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:02 <beisner> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting

 16:02 <caribou> o/

 16:02 <matsubara> o/

 16:02 <beisner> hi everybody!

 16:02 <beisner> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:02 <arges> o/

 16:03 <beisner> gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team -- gaughen and beisner discussing.

 16:03 <beisner> ^ gaughen is at a sprint, may not have an update this wk on that to-do.

 16:03 <beisner> i think that is the only action item from last week

 16:04 <beisner> jump in if anyone has anything to add at any point.

 16:04 <beisner> #topic Vivid Development

 16:04 <beisner> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule

 16:04 <beisner> Vivid feature freeze Feb 19, also deb import freeze.

 16:05 <beisner> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:05 <beisner> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:05 <beisner> let's look at some bugs

 16:06 <beisner> looks like we needs some assignees  ;-)

 16:06 <beisner> smoser, anything to add re: http://launchpad.net/bugs/1387340

 16:06 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1387340 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Vivid) "'output' directive not honored (/var/log/cloud-init-output.log missing)" [High,Confirmed]

 16:07 <beisner> ?

 16:07 <smoser> that'll be fixed in ext vivid upload. i really need to get one .

 16:07 <smoser> so definitely triaged.

 16:08 <beisner> ok great, can you mark U & V triaged on that bug?

 16:08 <beisner> also, anything on https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+bug/1404311 ?

 16:08 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1404311 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Vivid) "gce metadata api doesn't properly stream binary data" [High,Confirmed]

 16:09 <beisner> next:  https://bugs.launchpad.net/juju-core/+bug/1409639

 16:09 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1409639 in juju-core (Ubuntu Vivid) "juju needs to support systemd for >= vivid" [High,Triaged]

 16:09 <beisner> ^ looks like it's a push for juju-core systemd by feature freeze

 16:10 <beisner> no news on the openvpn bug.  anyone linked to that one?  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openvpn/+bug/1385851

 16:10 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1385851 in openvpn (Ubuntu Vivid) "OpenVPN only supports TLS v1.0" [Medium,Confirmed]

 16:11 <beisner> looks like heat fix is committed.   https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/heat/+bug/1328315

 16:11 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1328315 in heat (Ubuntu Utopic) "debian/heat-common.postinst uses getenv instead of getent" [Medium,Triaged]

 16:11 <beisner> ok, next up.

 16:11 <beisner> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:11 <beisner> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html

 16:11 <beisner> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server

 16:12 <beisner> i think everyone knows where they are.  lots to do yet this cycle.   won't dwell on that!

 16:12 <beisner> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:12 <caribou> beisner: I'm good, nothing on my side

 16:13 <beisner> hi caribou, great.   thanks!

 16:13 <beisner> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:13 <beisner> psivaa is off the hook unless he just wants to say HI

 16:14 <beisner> still reviewing existing test runs, and awaiting resolution of the rep to-do thing.

 16:15 <beisner> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:15 <smb> Nothing to report I have.

 16:15 <beisner> :-)

 16:15 <beisner> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:15 <beisner> anything fun and exciting to report coming up?

 16:16 <beisner> #topic Open Discussion

 16:17 <beisner> Wow so X just froze so I'm coming to you now from my phone.

 16:17 <beisner> #topic Announce next mtg

 16:17 <beisner> Same time same place +1wk.

 16:18 * beisner gives his machine a 3 finger salute.

 16:18 <beisner> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
</pre>
