{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the Forum Council Meeting, started on 20 August 2007, 22H00 - 23H00 (Etc/UTC).

== Attendance ==
* Vorian
* MikeB
* bapoumba
* jdong
* HymnToLife
* Rinchen
* PriceChild

== Agenda ==
* Loco Team Administrator
* Members Signatures

== Minutes ==
* Loco Team Administrator.
** Vorian has been voted as the Loco Team Administrator.

* Members Signatures - "Allowing pictures in forum members signatures".
** '''The council voted against allowing pictures in forum members signatures.'''

== Any Other Business ==
* Launchpad Integration.
** Last update from MikeB was that Matt R. wants to meeting with the FC/admin with some launchpad people.
** '''ACTION: ''' MikeB to mail the rest of the FC see if we could arrange a time/meeting to discuss Launchpad Integration.

* Artificial Intelligence to rejoin the staff.
** '''The council voted for allowing Artificial Intelligence back on staff.''' Welcome back AI!

* Use of Sticky's on Ubuntu User Map
** '''The council voted against the use of sticky's on the Ubuntu User Map.'''

== IRC Logs ==

<pre>
12:00	Vorian	hello
12:00	Vorian	:)
12:00	MikeB	greets
12:00	bapoumba	hey
12:00	Vorian	short short agenda today :)
12:01	jdong	yes it is
12:01	jdong	MikeB and I are going to be the only two FC members present
12:01	jdong	is darkog present for the Ubuntu Partners Lounge?
12:01	Vorian	ok
12:02	Vorian	I haven't been able to get a response from him since the last meeting
12:02	jdong	@now
12:02	ubotu	Current time in Etc/UTC: August 20 2007, 22:02:11 - Current meeting: Forum Council meeting
12:02	Vorian	the agenda is as follows :)
12:02	Vorian	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda
12:02	jdong	ok
12:02	Vorian	I say we remove that item until he turns up again :)
12:02	jdong	alright, agreed
12:02	MikeB	agreed
12:02	jdong	if anyone has his e-mail information
12:02	Vorian	I do
12:02	jdong	might be a good idea to hit him up via email
12:03	jdong	ok well, that was easy (tm)
12:03	Vorian	I have sent him 3 emails
12:03	jdong	I agree that we should take it off the agenda until he is reachable again
12:03	Vorian	done
12:04	jdong	ok, next item
12:04	Vorian	Loco Team Administrator
12:04	jdong	Loco Team Administrator
12:04	HymnToLife	Vorian wins
12:04	popey	jdong wins here
12:04	jdong	:)
12:05	Vorian	quote
12:05	Vorian	The forum council has created a new position of LoCo Team Administrator. This person will handle all LoCo requests on the UbuntuForums. This is a 1 year term that can be renewed. To start this off the FC has elected Vorian since he was already heading up the LoCo section of the forums.
12:05	jdong	I'm all for it :)
12:05	Vorian	lol
12:05	MikeB	+1:)
12:05	HymnToLife	same here
12:06	bapoumba	+1
12:06	Vorian	:)
12:06	Rinchen	I can't vote but +1. He's done a good job for Colorado
12:06	Vorian	thanks Rinchen :)
12:06	Rinchen	I'm just telling it like it is :-)
12:06	jdong	this topic has come up on the FC mailing list and all councilmembers voted in favor, to my memory
12:07	jdong	so I think we can call it done and move forward?
12:07	Vorian	k
12:07	MikeB	yup, +1 across the board
12:07	Vorian	last item
12:07	bapoumba	congrats Vorian :)
12:07	Vorian	:)
12:07	Vorian	thanks bapoumba :)
12:07	Vorian	Members Signatures
12:08	Vorian	in response to this thread
12:08	Vorian	http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=520487
12:08	bapoumba	images in signatures ?
12:08	Vorian	yes
12:08	jdong	ubuntu-geek had a comment to make about this:
12:08	jdong	>
12:08	jdong	> Regarding the member signatures and the use of images. The reason no
12:08	jdong	> images were never allowed is because we have enough to moderate and
12:08	jdong	> trying to clean up after children who decide to use unprofessional
12:08	jdong	> images will be a nightmare. Secondly, our server is taxed anyways
12:08	jdong	> serving up useless images is pointless and only causes slower load
12:08	jdong	> times.
12:08	jdong	>
12:08	jdong	> So my vote is -1
12:08	jdong	>
12:08	jdong	> Ryan
12:08	bapoumba	-1 here too
12:09	jdong	my feelings are mixed on this
12:09	PriceChild	They will be abused. We have avatars to express ourselves... why would images in sigs be needed too?
12:09	jdong	at the forums I am a part of that allow sigs, it is WIDELY ABUSED
12:09	jdong	gigantic images, ugly long banners
12:09	MikeB	I agree with UG, more graphics will use up forum server resource (disk space and bandwidth)
12:09	MikeB	people would abuse it
12:10	jdong	I am -1 on users uploading images to display on the signature
12:10	Rinchen	again, I don't think I can vote (Just a sub-forum mod) but I also say -1 for the resource and moderation issues already listed.
12:10	jdong	and I am much more -1 on users linking to other external images
12:10	jdong	because that can be catastrophic on page load times if their external host is down or slow
12:10	popey	but cant users switch off visibility of sigs in their profile?
12:10	MikeB	plus it could cause security issues for our friends visiting the forums froma Windows box
12:10	popey	(just a question)
12:10	popey	I am sure my profile has it turned off IIRC
12:10	PriceChild	popey, yes?
12:11	jdong	popey: yes, but users might want to be able to see some text sigs, and not image based ones
12:11	popey	ahh, its "all or nothing
12:11	popey	"show signatures"
12:11	jdong	right
12:11	bapoumba	popey, the regular text only sigs already get abused !
12:11	popey	i can imagine
12:11	bapoumba	and we do moderate them
12:11	jdong	there is one use case I can see...
12:12	jdong	some users like linking to some "Ubuntu User" tiny gif, or a linux user counter
12:12	popey	what about that new bug image thing from ubuntustats
12:12	popey	that might be popular to link to
12:12	PriceChild	http://ubuntucounter.geekosophical.net/
12:12	jdong	one proposal is to have a whitelist of allowed image URL's
12:12	jdong	for sigs
12:13	bapoumba	I have my numbers txt mode ;)
12:13	popey	couldnt this go under the avatar?
12:13	popey	i find sigs (of any kind) interrupt the flow
12:13	jdong	either an avatar or just a text
12:14	bapoumba	would those be hosted on the servers ?
12:14	jdong	is anyone here in favor of allowing image sigs?
12:14	jdong	and has an argument as to why?
12:14	MikeB	-1 here
12:14	bapoumba	still -1
12:15	MikeB	the only reason would be to allow people to be more individualistic on the forums, but it is not worth the cost of time and potential for abuse
12:15	jdong	the OP's idea is to "moderate" images, which I disagree with
12:15	jdong	it would be too much work on our part
12:15	jdong	and still doesn't resolve the technical problems with load time and server resources
12:16	jdong	so, let's just call this -1?
12:16	MikeB	sounds good
12:16	HymnToLife	-1 for me too
12:17	Vorian	agreed
12:17	jdong	wow, that was fast
12:18	Vorian	anything to address that's not on the agenda jdong or MikeB?
12:18	MikeB	nope, been fairly calm recently on the forums
12:18	jdong	One unclosed matter for me is the Launchpad integration stuff
12:19	jdong	what is the latest status update on that?
12:19	bapoumba	who knows ?
12:19	MikeB	Matt R. wants to meeting with the FC/admin with some launchpad people
12:19	jdong	yep, that's the last e-mail I've seen on it
12:20	jdong	so then it's hung on our side, pending a meeting date
12:20	bapoumba	how many registered users on LP as to now ,
12:20	bapoumba	?
12:20	Vorian	3
12:20	MikeB	I never heard back if anyone wanted to meet with them (LP guys)
12:21	bapoumba	Vorian, :D
12:21	Vorian	:)
12:21	jdong	I sent back an e-mail on this... I'm interested in meeting to ask a few more questions
12:22	bapoumba	usernames ?
12:22	MikeB	I will mail the rest of the FC see if we could arrange a time
12:22	jdong	ok
12:23	Vorian	excellent
12:23	Vorian	anything else?
12:23	jdong	not that I can think of
12:23	MikeB	Vorian: Till January, I can not meeting on Monday or Wednesday afternoon from 3:00PM till 5:00PM EST
12:24	jdong	as far as a next meeting date... I am doing calss scheduling the day after labo(u)r day
12:24	jdong	so by the end of the first week of sept I'll be more clear on my free timeslots
12:24	jdong	perhaps we should delay scheduling till then
12:24	Vorian	MikeB, ok
12:24	MikeB	jdong: sounds good
12:24	Vorian	jdong, ok
12:25	jdong	MikeB: shall we make formal decision on the PM topic here?
12:25	jdong	I just got to my PM inbox a second ago
12:26	MikeB	the Ubuntu user map?
12:27	jdong	no, the staff member
12:27	MikeB	jdong: sure
12:28	jdong	for everyone out there, Artificial Intelligence has offered to rejoin the staff
12:28	Vorian	great
12:28	bapoumba	cool
12:28	jdong	prior, he left due to personal reasons (not enough time)
12:28	jdong	I am +1 for welcoming him back on the staff
12:28	MikeB	+1 here also
12:28	bapoumba	+1
12:28	HymnToLife	+1
12:28	Vorian	+1 \o/
12:29	jdong	alright, then welcome back, AI :)
12:29	bapoumba	W00t
12:29	jdong	now that Mike's brought up the map thing....
12:29	jdong	might as well get that done
12:29	jdong	nickburns
12:30	jdong	PM'ed us about a map that he created
12:30	jdong	the URL is : http://www.flippinsweetdude.com/maps/
12:30	jdong	apparently you can pin your location on a Google Map
12:30	jdong	and he wants to make it a sticky to attract more attention
12:30	MikeB	phone brb
12:30	jdong	IMO the map is cool, but I don't think it's sticky material
12:31	HymnToLife	yep
12:31	HymnToLife	he can put something about it in his sig or hatever
12:31	jdong	historically we have only granted "advertising stickies" for official Ubuntu endeavors or official forum projects
12:31	jdong	he is welcome to make a thread or put it in his sig
12:31	jdong	but I'm -1 on sticky
12:31	HymnToLife	-1 too
12:32	MikeB	back
12:32	HymnToLife	otherwise we'll have tons of people requesting a sticky for their personal stuff
12:32	bapoumba	350 000 users, that will be crowded :D
12:32	jdong	agreed
12:32	bapoumba	-1 on the sticky
12:33	jdong	advertising personal projects on the forum is already on the border...
12:33	jdong	sticky is a definite no
12:33	MikeB	-1 here
12:33	Vorian	agreed, Je suis la carte
12:34	jdong	ok
12:34	PriceChild	Isn't there already one on the wiki or something?
12:35	bapoumba	Yea, I think so PriceChild
12:35	jdong	Vorian: you're what?
12:35	Vorian	yes, link is also on the planet
12:35	PriceChild	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWorldWide
12:37	Vorian	ok
12:37	Vorian	anything else?
12:37	jdong	alright, I think we're done
12:37	jdong	I want food
12:37	Vorian	great
12:37	Vorian	thanks for coming everyone :)
12:37	jdong	Vorian: large pepperoni and mushroom pizza
12:37	jdong	Vorian: and a 2 liter of coke too
12:37	Vorian	jdong, on the way :)
12:37	MikeB	Thanks
12:37	jdong	thanks!
12:37	MikeB	see you guys later
12:37	bapoumba	See ya !
12:38	Vorian	ha
12:38	jdong	alright, thanks for coming
12:38	jdong	and all that stuff
12:38	jdong	bye.
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[ForumCouncil]]</nowiki>
