{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
05:02	fabbione	can we start? we need to pack this meeting in one hour
05:03	mdz	fabbione: of course my friend.  why don't you start us off?
05:03	fabbione	mdz: sure..
05:03	fabbione	BenC: you first
05:03	BenC	delay me please
05:03	mdz	fabbione: I meant you, personally
05:03	fabbione	mdz: eheh ok

05:03	mdz	you're first on the list
05:03	fabbione	feisty-toolchain: no changes since last week.
05:03	fabbione	sparc64-installer: got network-console in main and tested. Pending fix for main-
05:03	fabbione	menu that's under review. os-prober now recognize Solaris/SPARC installations an
05:03	fabbione	d it can parse silo.conf to detect other Linux installations on the system. spar
05:03	fabbione	c-utils now ships eeprom util to change values in OBP. Missing to integrate the
05:03	fabbione	os-prober and sparc-utils changes into silo/silo-installer to create silo.conf s
05:03	fabbione	tanza's.
05:03	fabbione	integrity-check: created wget-udeb to provide an alternative to busybox wget tha
05:03	fabbione	t doesn't support ssl/https.
05:03	fabbione	spart64-niagara-ssl-accelerator: no changes since last week.
05:03	fabbione	ubuntu-feisty-ha-cluster: no changes since last week.
05:04	fabbione	Done
05:04	fabbione	* lvm2 testing with Ian. /me loves crack... Ian a bit less ;)
05:04	fabbione	* completed first mdadm SRU. Started investigating mdadm/evms issue reported in
05:04	fabbione	#67299.
05:04	fabbione	NOTE: for who doesn't read my emails: I will be in another TZ all of next week w
05:04	fabbione	ithout a phone and in vacation after that. Cya all next year!
05:04	fabbione	on men.. this copy/paste was horror
05:04	mdz	fabbione: have fun with David
05:04	fabbione	mdz: thanks
05:05	mdz	fabbione: thanks
05:05	Keybuk	fabbione: enjoy your vacation!  and thanks for your work on udev-mdadm
05:05	fabbione	Keybuk: i did push it back to you.. i need watershed.. once that's done i will take it over again
05:06	mdz	Keybuk: wasn't watershed the bit which I said needed to be added to the spec?
05:06	Keybuk	mdz: it's in the spec, and the patch is in my inbox and just needs testing
05:06	mdz	Keybuk: ok
05:07	Keybuk	I wasn't expecting the udev-* specs to get implemented so quickly; had them in January in my head, but others took up the challenge

05:05	mdz	doko: next
05:05	Keybuk	fabbione: I saw, thanks
05:05	doko	- merges and sync requests for main (finished except syslinux, currently stuck)
05:05	doko	- python and java syncs and merges
05:05	doko	- python updates, module updates for new upstream versions
05:05	doko	  supporting python2.5 (ongoing)
05:05	doko	- feisty-toolchain: update, enable the --hash-style=both link option
05:05	doko	- feisty+1-toolchain: update packaging to the current state of the 4.2
05:05	doko	  branch and trunk, update patches, forward patches upstream.
05:05	doko	- other: starting packaging of sun-java6
05:06	mdz	doko: what's stuck re: syslinux?
=== pitti wonders if doko would have some clue about the broken gdb
05:06	dholbach	pitti: I thought you fixed it?
05:07	mdz	pitti: seems to be a kernel issue
05:07	doko	mdz: the merged gfxboot not working
05:07	mdz	pitti: I filed a bug and Ben said it was fixed with 2.6.20
05:07	pitti	dholbach: right, and it built locally, but the buildds still fail because of unexpected test suite failures
05:07	doko	pitti: you fixed it?
05:07	pitti	doko: see above
05:07	pitti	doko: I applied the upstream patch to support .gnu.hash ELF segments
05:07	mdz	bug 74691
Ubugtu	Malone bug 74691 in linux-source-2.6.19 "Unable to debug under 2.6.19: Failed to read a valid object file image from memory" [High,Fix committed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/74691
05:08	pitti	ah, that's the i386 version of that bug
05:08	mdz	pitti: if you know more, please add it to the bug
05:08	pitti	for me on amd64 it was 'cannot read ELF file' or so
05:08	pitti	mdz: will do, I dealt with bug 73724
Ubugtu	Malone bug 73724 in gdb "gdb problems with glibc 2.5" [Critical,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/73724
05:08	mdz	doko: do you expect sun-java6 to be able to supersede sun-java5 for feisty?
05:08	BenC	the gdb thing is fixed in 2.6.20
05:09	BenC	at least it was for me
05:09	BenC	pitti: Can you confirm the gdb problem with 2.6.20?
05:09	pitti	BenC: seb128 still got it with 2.6.20?
05:09	seb128	pkg-create-dbgsym doesn't pass with 2.6.20
05:09	BenC	hmm
05:09	doko	mdz: should be; it's time enough until the release
05:09	seb128	2.6.17 works fine
05:09	pitti	BenC: as I said, building gdb locally under 2.6.20 works (test suite doesn't make the build fail, but fails some tests; didn't check closely)
05:09	pitti	anyway, let's not discuss it here
05:09	pitti	we are tight
05:09	pitti	in time
05:09	seb128	pitti: well, I only tried the testsuite, not to gdb some dump
05:10	mdz	doko: ok, cool. thanks

05:11	mdz	cjwatson: next
05:11	cjwatson	setup-console-under-usplash: No progress; needs somebody local to bug 73955 who's willing and able to dig into it.
Ubugtu	Malone bug 73955 in console-setup "Clobbered X screen state during installation" [High,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/73955
05:11	cjwatson	intel-mac-support: Fixed up mouseemu a good deal; could people on powerpc try this out? I'll set it up soon so that it doesn't even start on non-Mac x86 machines, and then it should be ready to install by default.
05:12	cjwatson	ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Have mostly been staring at Gentoo UI code trying to figure out how to integrate it. I hope to have a first cut testable by Christmas.
05:12	cjwatson	sparc64-installer: Have been helping Fabio out with various fixes related to network-console.
05:12	cjwatson	misc: Some interest in installer team so far, though nobody yet diving into code; Henrik has been getting up to speed on the ubiquity bug list. Switched d-i to running the -generic kernel. Worked on various ite
05:12	cjwatson	ms from my "later"-milestoned bugs, including getting the seeds switched away from using my directory on people.ubuntu.com.
05:13	BenC	cjwatson: BTW, a lot of mactel patches went into 2.6.20
05:13	cjwatson	excellent, thanks
05:13	mdz	who can help out with that console/usplash bug?
05:13	cjwatson	I'll be getting the hardware from mjg59 at some point
05:13	Mithrandir	cjwatson: I might be able to debug 73955 given Karianne's laptop exhibits the problem, especially if you can give me a useful starting point.
05:13	cjwatson	mdz: Mithrandir said he could
05:13	mdz	so he hsa
05:13	mdz	has
05:13	Keybuk	mdz: I can, it happened to me
05:13	cjwatson	Mithrandir: the consolechars command in the bug is a useful starting pooint
05:13	cjwatson	point
05:14	Mithrandir	cjwatson: ok, let's talk about it later.
05:14	cjwatson	everything I know (not a huge amount, but >0) is in the bug
05:14	Mithrandir	'k
05:14	cjwatson	if we can't fix it, we revert and lose s-c-u-u
05:14	mdz	cjwatson: ok, thanks

05:14	mdz	BenC: next
05:14	BenC	:: Specs
05:14	BenC	* driver-device-manager: NO PROGRESS
05:14	BenC	* driver-backports: NO PROGRESS
05:14	BenC	:: Work for past week
05:14	BenC	* First release of 2.6.20-pre kernel. Built for all architectures. Initial testing by distro team has begun.
05:14	BenC	* ata_piix regression fixed.
05:14	BenC	* i82365 crash fixed.
05:15	BenC	* Intel enabling (discussions, and so on)
05:15	BenC	* LRM is ready for 2.6.20, uploading today.
05:15	BenC	* All vmware modules are now in LRM (server, player and tools).
05:15	BenC	:: Work for next week
05:15	BenC	* Finish merges, and get 2.6.20 default in feisty.
05:15	BenC	* Start back to work on specs.
05:15	fabbione	BenC: expect some crack from David and me next week
05:15	BenC	fabbione: good crack or bad crack?
05:15	fabbione	BenC: *crack :)
05:15	BenC	wait, you didn't so "ok, this is crack"
05:15	mdz	BenC: how has the feedback for 2.6.20 been?
05:16	mdz	is it also announced to -devel-announce or similar?
05:16	BenC	mdz: Three bugs so far :/
05:16	BenC	two of them crashes
05:16	mdz	Keybuk: I've set you as approver on driver-backports, chat with me about it if you're uncertain about the requirements
05:16	mdz	whee
05:16	mdz	I'll test it on my machines here today
05:17	cjwatson	BenC: do you want the installer switched over?
05:17	Keybuk	BenC: lrm would be nice
05:17	BenC	everyone note that you can test feisty kernel on edgy too
05:17	ogra	BenC, why isnt ext4 enabled ? i'd love to play with it
05:17	BenC	cjwatson: no, not yet
05:17	mdz	cjwatson: it would be interesting if we could switch the desktop CD ahead of linux-meta
05:17	BenC	ogra: It's still marked experimental
05:17	Mithrandir	BenC: when is the plan to switch to it by default?
05:17	ogra	BenC, oki
05:17	BenC	Mithrandir: hopefully next week, if it doesn't eat everyone's data
05:17	Mithrandir	BenC: ok.
05:18	Mithrandir	(thinking herd scheduling here)
05:18	mdz	it looks like it may be a rough ride to 2.6.20
05:18	cjwatson	mdz: that's probably feasible with Adam's assistance
05:18	cjwatson	will have to check ubiquity
05:18	mdz	BenC: what about the vmware workstation modules? are they the same as server?
05:18	BenC	I think we can expect some problems with 2.6.20, we usually don't have such an unstable kernel in at such a late devel state
05:19	mdz	I tried to unbreak my vmware workstation install, but the modules didn't build anymore
05:19	BenC	mdz: I can't remember if they are server or player comptable
05:19	BenC	but one of them works
05:19	mdz	ok
05:19	mdz	BenC: thanks

05:20	mdz	Riddell: you're on holiday, but since you're here, if you have an update, it's your turn :-)
05:21	Riddell	hi
05:21	Riddell	done: kubuntu-feisty-language-selector: implemented, worked out well
05:21	Riddell	      kubuntu-feisty-ubiquity: ported to qt4
05:21	Riddell	todo: holiday, but kubuntu upgrade-tool is next on my TODO
05:21	Riddell	blocked: artists
05:21	mdz	I will continue to nag sabdfl about artwork
05:21	mdz	Riddell: is it blocking anything other than the artwork itself?
05:21	Riddell	apparantly he's on holiday for the next 3 weeks :(
05:22	Riddell	mdz: no, it's just unfair to leave the artists unsure what's happening
05:22	mdz	Riddell: I have a call with him in 1.5 hours
05:22	Riddell	cjwatson: my qt4 partitioning problem may have been caused by old d-i debs installed, if it works for you I think it should be merged into trunk
05:22	Mithrandir	I haven't seen any artwork uploads, and artwork is a feature, so it needs to be generally useful by FF.
=== Mithrandir chants that to himself.
05:23	cjwatson	Riddell: yeah, that had occurred to me too
05:23	mdz	Riddell: thanks, now go relax a little ;-)
05:23	cjwatson	Riddell: it hung for me later on, but I'll check it out
05:23	ogra	Mithrandir, that policy is in place since hoary

05:23	mdz	Mithrandir: next
05:23	Mithrandir	misc: archive admin, fixed a bunch of missing depends on update-inetd, helped twb (community member) with casper merge, poked mono problem on sparc, ran into gdb internal errors, ran away
05:23	ogra	Mithrandir, but was ignored since it exists :)
05:23	Mithrandir	grub2: played around with grub2 on one of my systems, seems to work.  Jeff Bailey has done some work to fix up update-grub, I need to look into that.
05:23	Mithrandir	network-roaming: no progress
05:23	Mithrandir	changelog-closes-bugs: no further progress
05:23	Mithrandir	feisty-release-schedule: put the herds on the schedule; slightly scary scheduling wrt gnome releases, so we might want to adjust if it doesn't work out.
05:24	Mithrandir	next week: fix up random bits before I go on vacation from Tuesday
05:24	mdz	Mithrandir: are you still confident about getting network-roaming finished? that's quite important
05:24	Mithrandir	mdz: yes.
05:25	mdz	much higher priority than grub2
05:25	Mithrandir	sure.
05:25	mdz	Mithrandir: is changelog-closes-bugs still under discussion in Debian?
05:25	mdz	if there isn't consensus there, we should still proceed
05:25	Mithrandir	mdz: I don't think they're entirely happy, but I think they'll take the patch.
05:26	mdz	oh, good
05:26	mdz	Mithrandir: thanks

05:26	mdz	ogra: next
05:26	ogra	* last week:
05:26	ogra	- merged debian ltsp patches
05:26	ogra	- started working on edubuntu-network-auth-server/client
05:26	ogra	- switched ltsp to openbsd-inetd (pitti, please approve before christmas holiday so ltsp is installable during our holiday)
05:26	ogra	- started a lts.conf parser for ltsp-management-gui
05:26	ogra	- new gnome-power-manager
05:26	ogra	
05:26	ogra	* next week:
05:26	ogra	- fix final ltsp merge bugs (new locale plugin handling etc)
05:26	ogra	- more work on e-n-a-s
05:26	pitti	ogra: oh, ok, will do
05:26	ogra	- more work on ltsp-management-gui
05:26	ogra	- more work on edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound
05:26	ogra	
05:26	ogra	* approved specs:
05:26	ogra	- ltsp-fat-clients - partially implemented, good user feedback
05:26	ogra	- edubuntu-network-auth-server - started
05:26	ogra	- edubuntu-network-auth-client - not started
05:26	ogra	- edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound - started
05:26	ogra	- ltsp-management-gui - started
05:26	ogra	- student-control-panel-upgrade - not started
05:26	ogra	- edubuntu-on-two-cds - not started
05:26	ogra	- ltsp-persistent-home - started by sbalneav (waiting for code review)
05:26	ogra	sorry for missing last week btw
05:26	ogra	pitti, its not urgent, but needs to be in place before herd12
05:27	ogra	err
05:27	ogra	2
05:27	pitti	ogra: will try to do today before I get drawn into something else again
05:27	ogra	mdz, did you see vagrants answer to my mail -> policy violation ?
05:27	mdz	ogra: I don't think so
05:28	ogra	he showed some valid pointers from the release policy for etch
05:28	mdz	ogra: is there a target release date for upstream ltsp 5?
05:28	ogra	apparently the debian RM's dchanged the wording from "conffile" to "config file"
05:29	ogra	it will release latest with feisty ....
05:29	ogra	depends on the other implementations as well
05:29	pitti	ogra: conffile vs. config file is animportant difference...
05:29	mdz	ogra: debian RMs don't have the authority to change policy, and that sounds like an error
05:29	ogra	(redhat and gentoo want to have *something* at least)
05:30	mdz	forbidding maintainer scripts from touching all configuration files would be, er, extreme
05:30	Keybuk	wouldn't that make debconf illegal?
05:30	mdz	anyway I don't think it's necessary to modify /etc/modules in this case, as I said
05:30	mdz	but let's discuss it outside of the meeting
05:30	mdz	ogra: thanks
05:30	cjwatson	        Packages must not modify their own or other packages conffiles
05:30	cjwatson	        programmatically.
05:30	ogra	    Packages must not modify other packages' configuration files
05:30	cjwatson	sorry, -> #ubuntu-devel
05:30	ogra	    except by an agreed upon APIs (eg, a /usr/sbin/update-foo command).
05:30	ogra	thast from an RM mail he quoted

05:30	mdz	mvo: next
05:31	mvo	Did:
05:31	mvo	- Mail/Bugtriage
05:31	mvo	- apt work (catchup with debian patches, prepared SRU for edgy)
05:31	mvo	- unattended-upgrades mail notification added
05:31	mvo	- work on better commercial software support in g-a-i
05:31	mvo	- auto-distupgrader work (fixes in the conffile decetion, tested on ppc as well)
05:31	mvo	- CommonCustomizations work
05:31	mvo	- free space checking in dist-upgrader rewritten
05:31	mvo	- misc merges/uploads (gnome-commander, python-distutils-extas, python-aptutils, dhcp, iptraf, apt-listchanges, python-support,central)
05:31	mvo	- Implemented .dsc file build-dep satisfy in gdebi (for iwj auto-pkgtest)
05:31	mvo	- some work on the server upgrade tool
05:31	mvo	Specs:
05:31	mvo	- automatic-upgrade-testing waits for deployment in the datacenter (so blocked currently)
05:31	mdz	ogra: RMs don't decide policy
05:31	mvo	Will do:
05:31	mvo	- merges
05:31	mvo	- CommonCustomizations
05:32	mdz	mvo: how has edgy->feisty upgrade testing been so far?
05:32	mvo	mdz: pretty good actually. I do it on a i386 here regularly and found that it works rather well
05:32	mdz	mvo: any issues identified by sysadmin regarding the upgrade testing? or just needs time?
05:32	mdz	they have been quick with most things
05:32	mvo	I may say "unexpetecedly" well even with 4200 package s installed
05:33	mvo	I got no feedback whats blocking the datacenter install, I guess not enough machines
05:33	mvo	but that is just a guess
05:33	mvo	I also ran it on dholbach ppc successfully
05:33	mvo	(thanks dholbach for letting me on the machine :)
05:33	dholbach	mvo: for you anytime... ;-)
05:33	mdz	mvo: ok, thanks

05:34	mdz	heno: next
05:34	heno	Done:
05:34	heno	* access-gdm: Upstream are still keen to go the AT-SPI route. That now seems doable with GDM. Not sure about FaceBrowser.
05:34	heno	* multilingual-speech: More work on eSpeak voices, but I've not had time to do a larger community push yet.
05:34	heno	* bug-triage: started helping with ubiquity bugs and reading uiquity code. Wrote a simple script (which dholbach later cleaned up :) ) to assist in some basic triaging tasks. It only does some basic dupe searching ATM, but might grow into something useful. See: http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~dholbach/bughelper/bughelper.dev
05:34	heno	* launchpad: read up on some launchpad/distro discussions from the past and attended a weekly launchpad meeting. If there are issues you want raised with the LP team you can channel them through me.
05:34	heno	* Other: started monitoring a few forum sections, esp Feisty-development with the aim of lifting out useful info, such as important bugs not reported in Malone.
05:34	heno	.
05:34	heno	To do:
05:34	heno	* bug-triage: more ubiquity triage. Update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingUbiquity with known Edgy bugs. Look at doing the same with other packages (which in turn serves as input for the bughelper script). Pointers to existing such pages welcome.
05:34	heno	* launchpad: Work with matthewrevell on ideas for distro-lp cross linking, including Fix-it Fridays.
05:34	heno	* multilingual-speech: Help community people get started on new eSpeak voices
05:35	mdz	heno: did you have a chance to work on that letter to the forums we discussed?
05:35	heno	mdz: just bullet points so far
05:36	cjwatson	ooh, thanks for bughelper, I must investigate that
05:36	heno	mdz: in the next few days I should have a draft
05:36	mdz	heno: and please talk with sfllaw to work out how to file important bugs from the forums such that a) they aren't lost in the noise, and b) someone gets subscribed to the bug who can participate in debugging
05:36	heno	cjwatson: its very simple ...
05:37	dholbach	cjwatson: there's a discussion going on on ubuntu-bugsquad@ which might turn into wiki pages with ideas - the 'official branch' should be ~bugsquad/bughelper/bughelper.main
05:37	heno	mdz: right, colin and have started a bit with ubiquity bugs from there
05:37	mdz	heno: (unless it's obvious what the bug is and how to fix it without their participation)
05:37	heno	Im trying to educate a bit as I bgo along
05:38	mdz	heno: I like the idea of adding known high-visibility bugs to the debugging info pages
05:38	heno	right
05:38	mdz	heno: perhaps we could make that more automatic by tagging the bugs which should appear there
05:38	cjwatson	yeah, that was something I did with dapper
05:38	cjwatson	doing the same for edgy would be great
05:39	heno	or just make a page for each major pkg, xorg, ff, oo, ect
05:39	heno	some exist already
05:40	heno	but they should be better structured and linked to
05:40	mdz	heno: yes, another idea I've had is to group bugs based on user experience, e.g. problems booting, logging in, using the desktop, display issues, etc.
05:40	mdz	heno: to make it easier for users to find existing bugs, when they don't know the package affected
05:40	mdz	heno: perhaps we should have a longer discussion on ubuntu-devel
05:40	mdz	need to move on here
05:40	mdz	heno: thanks

05:40	mdz	dholbach: next
05:40	heno	sounds good
05:41	dholbach	Done:
05:41	dholbach	* code-review: announced trial period, got feedback
05:41	dholbach	* automatic-art-builder: mailed Mark, mailed artist who was interested in it, no feedback
05:41	dholbach	* lots of bug triage
05:41	dholbach	* started hacking on Henrik's bughelper
05:41	dholbach	Todo:
05:41	dholbach	* 2.17.4
05:41	dholbach	* more bug triage
05:41	dholbach	* hacking on Henrik's bughelper
05:41	dholbach	* bug day
05:41	dholbach	* hacking on the art builder and push the artwork people some more. :-)
05:41	dholbach	* (revu day?)
05:41	pitti	heno: I'd glad to talk to you about that bughelper code wrt. apport and bug-reporting-tool integration
05:41	pitti	heno: s/glad/be glad/
05:41	dholbach	pitti: i thought about stealing your bug patterns idea :)
05:41	mdz	dholbach: so no one using the art builder yet?
05:41	heno	pitti: cool, lets schedule afterwards
05:41	dholbach	mdz: effectively, no :-/
05:42	mdz	urgh
05:42	mdz	dholbach: please send me a link to the announcement on ubuntu-art and I'll see if I can help stir up some interest
05:42	mdz	dholbach: thanks
05:42	mdz	seb128: next
05:42	dholbach	mdz:  alright
05:42	seb128	Specs:
05:42	seb128	* easy-codec-installation: no change (mdz, any reply from tim?)
05:42	seb128	* tab-consistency: not started
05:42	seb128	* desktop-slab: no change, package available to universe, waiting for upstream to know if they will ship the gnome-main-menu applet with GNOME 2.18
05:42	seb128	.
05:43	seb128	Done:
05:43	seb128	* catching up with bugs, backlog around 400 now
05:43	seb128	* played with compiz and started updating to the new version
05:43	seb128	* a bunch of desktop updates
05:43	seb128	.
05:43	seb128	To do:
05:43	seb128	* upload tracker (0.5.3 with fixed copyright mentions will before next week)
05:43	seb128	* update compiz, look at compiz tools package available on revu, contact the guy packaging the to know if he's interested to work join MOTU and work on those packages and compiz
05:43	seb128	* keep bug triaging
05:43	seb128	* start working on tab-consistency
05:43	seb128	* GNOME 2.17.4
05:43	ogra	dholbach, i'll point cbx33 to you as well, his wife leads the edubuntu artteam ...
05:43	mdz	seb128: yes, tim will complete the gstreamer work by 31 dec
05:43	seb128	mdz: excellent, thanks
05:43	dholbach	ogra: thanks
05:44	mdz	seb128: I asked him to mail patches to you and iwj when he has them
05:44	seb128	ok
05:44	pitti	seb128: please tell me that the newer compiz versions don't suck so much any more
05:44	seb128	pitti: it should be better, that's why I'm working on the update :)
05:44	mdz	seb128: if upstream ships gnome-main-menu, do we have transition work to do?  or leave existing users with the old menu on upgrade?
05:44	seb128	and understand workspaces
05:45	seb128	mdz: they will not ship it by default, just as an option (like the simple icon menu amt)
05:45	seb128	atm
05:45	seb128	(simple icon menu = the windows like menu, with the logo which opens one menu)
05:45	mdz	ah ,ok
05:45	mdz	seb128: thanks
05:45	mdz	pitti: next
05:46	pitti	Done:
05:46	pitti	* merges for main: practically done, (enigmail: we have to permanently fork due to Debian's icedove madness, linux-wlan-ng: Debian has a SVN snapshot instead of stable release, have to evaluate)
05:46	pitti	* zero-configuration-networking: implemented the last unimportant, but hairy bits, now fully complete; announced to -devel, suggested for next UWN. Enjoy!
05:46	pitti	* mount-all-local-filesystems: implemented, announced to -devel. Enjoy!
05:46	pitti	* gnome-mount: discussed de-gnomeification with Xubuntu guys; will eventually happen upstream and not urgent for Xubuntu, thus I set this to Blocked and will just let it sit; fully implemented for Ubuntu's purposes (except that mounting encrypted devices doesn't work, but that's udev-device-mapper)
05:46	pitti	* uploaded g-s-t/s-t-backends/couple of applets SRU to -proposed after cjwatson's review (bug 59946); waiting for button push by an archive admin
05:46	Ubugtu	Malone bug 59946 in gnome-system-tools "Admin tools require admin group membership" [High,In progress]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/59946
05:46	pitti	* fixed avahi regression from last security update
05:46	pitti	* dapper/edgy langpacks made it to -updates
05:46	pitti	* put a considerable dent into my bugs mbox, now < 1000 \o/
05:46	pitti	* ~/.xsession-errors handling: posted options to -devel, waiting for more feedback
05:46	pitti	Todo:
05:46	pitti	* do my share of universe merges
05:46	pitti	* more bug triage
05:46	pitti	* but: tomorrow is my last official workday for this year, then: holiday! I'll probably do some bits next week (hacking on apport, yummy), but I have some christmas preparations to do, so don't expect too much
05:46	doko	pitti: do we target tb-2.0 for feisty?
05:46	pitti	doko: didn't spend any thoughts about it, but if it arrives on time, sure
05:47	cjwatson	I'll do g-s-t after these meetings
05:47	pitti	it has very few reverse dependencies
05:47	mdz	pitti: please register a new spec for mounting local filesystems on the live CD and add it to the list for the sprint, I'd like to talk about this
05:47	pitti	cjwatson: thank you (also for the review and your eagle eye)
05:47	Mithrandir	pitti: z-c-n seems to have blown up quite badly for me, I need to sit down and find out what's going on, but it has mostly broken NM for me.
05:47	pitti	mdz: unless you want them to be automatically mounted this should just work
05:47	mdz	pitti: consider splitting gnome-mount since the core part is implemented
05:47	pitti	mdz: and I wouldn't like them to be automounted
05:47	mdz	pitti: I want them to be automatically mounted :-)
05:47	mdz	at least in some cases. and so do many users
05:47	pitti	mdz: gnome-mount-xubuntu split? sounds fine
05:48	mdz	let's talk through the issues at the sprint
05:48	mdz	see if we can do something useful
05:48	pitti	Mithrandir: ok, let's debug this at some time
05:48	Mithrandir	pitti: yeah; not here. :-)
05:48	pitti	mdz: right; shouldn't be hard to do anyway
05:48	pitti	mdz: automount> urgh
05:48	ogra	heh
05:48	mdz	pitti: ok, thanks
05:49	ogra	pitti, according to the feedback to your announcement, thats what everybody expected :)
05:49	pitti	ogra: I didn't interpret it that way
05:49	ogra	pitti, i know :)

05:48	mdz	zul: next
05:49	kylem	he just said on #-kernel he's gone for lunch
05:49	BenC	<zul> Worked on xen

05:50	mdz	sfllaw: next
05:50	sfllaw	Done:
05:50	sfllaw	* Bug triage
05:50	sfllaw	* Documentation
05:50	sfllaw	* SRUs: openoffice.org
05:50	sfllaw	* Interviewed another intern
05:50	sfllaw	* Accepted three interns for me.  One for Jeff.
05:50	sfllaw	To do:
05:50	sfllaw	* SRUs: vino, udev, initramfs-tools
05:50	sfllaw	* Bug triage
05:50	sfllaw	* Hug day
05:50	mdz	sfllaw: everything sorted with equipment for interns?
05:50	sfllaw	* Accepting people into Ubuntu QA
05:50	sfllaw	* Paperwork for interns
05:50	sfllaw	Blocked:
05:50	sfllaw	* SRUs: synaptic (cjwatson & mvo?)
05:51	sfllaw	heno: Thanks for being the LP-Distro bridge.
=== sfllaw hugs heno.
05:51	sfllaw	I asked jbailey to put in an order.
05:51	sfllaw	Continuing to ping him until he does.
05:51	mdz	sfllaw: could we start getting the open bug stats weekly again?  stub can add them to cricket to make that a simple matter
05:51	cjwatson	sfllaw: yeah, erm, blush
=== cjwatson notes it in yet another place
05:52	mdz	sfllaw: is there progress on making the text changes to launchpad for bug workflow? (e.g., statuses)
05:52	sfllaw	UWN has them, actually.
05:52	sfllaw	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue24
05:52	sfllaw	But I'll ask stubs to make better cricket things for us.
05:52	mdz	not sure how the schedule matches the one for these meetings, but at any rate, it's useful
05:53	sfllaw	mdz: I haven't heard anything from the LP people.  But am looking forward to their Fridays in January.
05:53	sfllaw	mdz: I'll bug BjornT then, but am unsure how quickly he'll prioritize.
05:53	sfllaw	It's not like bradb, where I could bribe him with beer.
05:53	mdz	sfllaw: please mail steve/kiko instead, they determine the priorities
05:53	Mithrandir	ok, I need to go now; see you all later.
05:53	mdz	and as i understood it this was a small change
05:54	mdz	sfllaw: thanks
05:54	sfllaw	OK.  Will put some pressure on them.

05:54	mdz	Keybuk: next
05:54	Keybuk	Done
05:54	Keybuk	    *
05:54	Keybuk	      finished off upstart specs necessary for feisty
05:54	Keybuk	    *
05:54	Keybuk	      borrowed binary-driver-education from mvo; will be integrating with BenC's device manager
05:54	Keybuk	    *
05:54	Keybuk	      started work on upstart
05:54	Keybuk	To do
05:54	Keybuk	    *
05:54	Keybuk	      upstart development for replacement initscripts
05:54	Keybuk	    *
05:54	Keybuk	      get udev into shape as it's blocking a couple of other specs now
05:54	Keybuk	    *
05:54	Keybuk	      holiday (mostly as an excuse to only work 8 hours a day <g>)
05:54	Keybuk	(bah, pasted badly; sorry)
05:55	mdz	Keybuk: have you started looking at accelerated-x?
05:55	Keybuk	mdz: yes
05:55	Keybuk	I have it working here
05:56	mdz	Keybuk: ok, thanks

05:56	mdz	kylem: next
05:56	kylem	Done:
05:56	kylem	  * Backported ipw3945 1.1.3 to feisty/edgy/dapper
05:56	kylem	  * Fix build of ipw3945 on dapper kernels
05:56	kylem	  * Fixed a large portion of ubuntu/ for INIT_WORK changes
05:56	kylem	  * Update sky2/tg3 for dapper-updates
05:56	kylem	  * Backport forcedeth for dapper-updates/edgy-updates
05:56	kylem	  * Update net_driver compat header for dapper
05:56	kylem	  * d80211 INIT_WORK cleanups for ubuntu-2.6.git (with mjg59)
05:56	kylem	Todo:
05:56	kylem	  * Merge the -proposed trees with Ben's and upload
05:56	kylem	  * CVE-2006-4572 fix for dapper-security/breezy-security
05:57	mdz	kylem: cool, thanks

05:57	mdz	missed anyone?
05:58	fabbione	-3 minutes to deadline
05:58	tkamppeter_	Me.
05:58	sfllaw	Can I please ask everyone to update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20061214 with their summaries?  Thanks.

05:58	mdz	tkamppeter_: next
05:58	tkamppeter_	DONE:
05:58	tkamppeter_	- Answered to bug reports
05:58	tkamppeter_	- Fixed regression in HPLIP (missing SANE driver after last upstream update,
05:58	tkamppeter_	  re-fixes bug 65908, doko, take care of not breaking this with the next
05:58	tkamppeter_	  upstream update of HPLIP)
Ubugtu	Malone bug 65908 in hplip "libsane-hpaio.so not shipped anymore" [Critical,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/65908
05:58	tkamppeter_	- Made a suggestion for handling the case that the GUI of HPLIP needs
05:58	tkamppeter_	  Python/Qt which is not on the desktop CD, but no answer so far
05:58	tkamppeter_	  (bug 67892)
Ubugtu	Malone bug 67892 in hplip "HPLIP failed to start PyQt/Qt missing" [Medium,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/67892
05:59	tkamppeter_	- Submitted new package SpliX (driver for cheapo laser printers from
05:59	tkamppeter_	  Samsung, more reliable than old "gdi" driver (pitti tried it out),
05:59	tkamppeter_	  introduces support for color lasers), fixes bug 44407, bug 63802, and
Ubugtu	Malone bug 44407 in foomatic-db "Samsung clp510 not working" [Medium,Needs info]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/44407
Ubugtu	Malone bug 63802 in cupsys "[Edgy]  unable to install printer Samsung CLP 510" [Medium,Needs info]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/63802
05:59	tkamppeter_	  bug 59829 (package not in Debian)
Ubugtu	Malone bug 59829 in Ubuntu "No driver for Samsung ML-1610 printer" [Wishlist,Needs info]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/59829
05:59	tkamppeter_	- Prepared better support for Brother's bw lasers in foomatic-db upstream.
05:59	tkamppeter_	  See announcement on www.linuxprinting.org front page and
05:59	tkamppeter_	  http://forums.openprinting.org/read.php?24,106 This gives access to
05:59	tkamppeter_	  HQ1200 (2400x600 dpi), Duplex, tray selection Economode, and password-
05:59	tkamppeter_	  protected printing to all Brother lasers (should even make the
05:59	tkamppeter_	  PostScript and PCL models working better).
05:59	tkamppeter_	
05:59	mdz	tkamppeter_: note that the meeting schedule has changed somewhat to alternate between 1600 UTC and 2100 UTC.  you should be able to attend each meeting now, yes?
06:00	tkamppeter_	Yes, it is easier for me now. Last week I could not attend because I was on travel to Portland for the OSDL Desktop Architects Meeting.
06:00	mdz	tkamppeter_: ok, we'll include you in the normal roll then
06:01	mdz	tkamppeter_: thanks
06:01	tkamppeter_	When I arrived in the hotel I started xchat and the meeting was just over.
06:01	mdz	that's a wrap, folks.  note that a canonical meeting follows immediately
06:01	sfllaw	Can we have a short break.
06:01	sfllaw	?
06:01	BenC	later everyone
</pre>
