{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* V Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (?)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

The documentation string freeze is coming up, and with the transition to systemd there may be many required updates, so everyone please take a look over the current Server guide (https://help.ubuntu.com/14.04/serverguide/index.html).

There are a few unassigned high priority server bugs - one in mysql, one in tomcat7, and one in landscape-client which should be fixed in upstream cloud-init.  juju-core has a high priority bug to support systemd.

The kernel team is tacking down a nested kvm bug which appears to affect older (12.04) hosts with newer (14.10) guests.

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, March 24th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>

[16:00] <hallyn_> #startmeeting Ubuntu Server Team Meeting
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Mar 17 16:00:38 2015 UTC.  The chair is hallyn_. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <beisner> o/
[16:00] <hallyn_> #topoic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:00] <hallyn_> bah
[16:00] <hallyn_> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <hallyn_> Happily there are none
[16:01] <hallyn_> #topic V Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting | Current topic: V Development
[16:01] <hallyn_> Hm, the meeting page used to include the two relevant links,
[16:02] <hallyn_> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
[16:02] <hallyn_> So documentationstring freeze is coming up,
[16:02] <hallyn_> (along of course with final beta freeze)
[16:02] <hallyn_> might be good to have a discussion about what docs we want to update.  I forget - does the Server Guide fall under documentation freeze?
[16:03] <rbasak> I believe it does.
[16:03] <hallyn_> might be good to have everyone take a look and at least come up with a list of areas needing update for next week
[16:03] <hallyn_> i'm going to add an action for that in fact.  cause we haven't always been all *that* good at that...
[16:04] <hallyn_> #action everyone look at server guide and look for areas which need updating
[16:04] <meetingology> ACTION: everyone look at server guide and look for areas which need updating
[16:04] <hallyn_> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:04] <rbasak> There may be some upstart -> systemd documentation fixes necessary
[16:05] <hallyn_> in a specific area or all around?
[16:06] <hallyn_> not sure i know enough about them but ill take a lookat those :)
[16:06] <hallyn_> s olooking at the bugs, bug 1427406 is critical but unassigned
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1427406 in mysql-5.6 (Ubuntu Vivid) "data corruption on arm64" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1427406
[16:06] <hallyn_> dannf: are you stil working on that one?
[16:07] <dannf> hallyn_: not actively, no. we need to sync up with your team on that one (in a meeting right now though)
[16:07] <hallyn_> ok, thanks
[16:08] <hallyn_> #action hallyn to talk with dannf about bug 1427406
[16:08] <meetingology> ACTION: hallyn to talk with dannf about bug 1427406
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1427406 in mysql-5.6 (Ubuntu Vivid) "data corruption on arm64" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1427406
[16:08] <hallyn_> there are three more unassigned high prio bugs,
[16:08] <hallyn_> bugs 1427275, 1432715, and 1409639
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1427275 in landscape-client (Ubuntu Vivid) "clean cloud images of python2" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1427275
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1432715 in tomcat7 (Ubuntu Vivid) "tomcat7 ftbfs in vivd (test failures)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1432715
[16:08] <hallyn_> is anyone handling those?
[16:09] <hallyn_> high ubottu, what about bug 1409639
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1409639 in juju-core (Ubuntu Vivid) "juju needs to support systemd for >= vivid" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1409639
[16:09] <rbasak> juju systemd isn't expected to make any progress in the archive until very late this cycle (after 1.23 is out)
[16:09] <hallyn_> kinda what i expected,
[16:10] <hallyn_> looks like 1427275 should be fixed upstream,
[16:10] <hallyn_> bug 1432715 is unattended
[16:10] <ubottu> bug 1432715 in tomcat7 (Ubuntu Vivid) "tomcat7 ftbfs in vivd (test failures)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1432715
[16:10] <hallyn_> zul's out all week i think, so i guess i'll aim to take a look - unless someone else wants to?
[16:11] <hallyn_> #action hallyn to look at bug 1432715
[16:11] <meetingology> ACTION: hallyn to look at bug 1432715
[16:11] <hallyn_> alrighty, moving on,
[16:11] <hallyn_> #tpoic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:11] <hallyn_> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:11] <hallyn_> (bad kbd angle)
[16:11] <hallyn_> caribou is not around,
[16:11] <hallyn_> so moving on,
[16:11] <hallyn_> Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (?)
[16:11] <hallyn_> beisner: ^ \o
[16:12] <matsubara> That would be me
[16:12] <hallyn_> oh right
[16:12] <hallyn_> #action hallyn to update QA Team section assignee to matsubara
[16:12] <meetingology> ACTION: hallyn to update QA Team section assignee to matsubara
[16:12] <matsubara> server smoke tests are failing
[16:12] <matsubara> due to a unmet dependency installing libpam-systemd
[16:12] <matsubara> here's an example of the failure http://d-jenkins.ubuntu-ci:8080/job/vivid-server-i386-smoke-default/140/
[16:12] <matsubara> libpam-systemd : Depends: systemd (= 219-4ubuntu4) but 219-4ubuntu5 is to be installed
[16:13] <hallyn_> so this is a bug in libpam-systemd packaging?
[16:13] <hallyn_> oh,
[16:13] <matsubara> I couldn't find a bug reported about that and I'm not sure if this is a systemd error or libpam-systemd error
[16:13] <hallyn_> will libpam-systemd is packaged in systemd
[16:14] <hallyn_> so this probably just goes to #ubuntu-devel.  do you mind bringing it up there later today?
[16:14] <matsubara> ok, I'll file a bug in systemd and ask pitti about it
[16:14] <hallyn_> thanks!
[16:14] <matsubara> np. that's all from me hallyn_
[16:14] <hallyn_> #action matsubara to file a bug for libpam-systemd's dependency problem
[16:14] <meetingology> ACTION: matsubara to file a bug for libpam-systemd's dependency problem
[16:14] <rbasak> Note that pitti is on holiday right now
[16:14] <hallyn_> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:14] <smb> Looking at the nested_kvm issue (bug 1431473). Nothing final, yet but looks to be a combination of running Precise(3.2) on the host and Utopic(3.16) or later on L1. Having the host at Trusty(3.13) fixes this. So I just need to find out what fails exactly. Though it is likely not the cpuid flags but VMX support MSR(s) which are inconsistent.
[16:14] <ubottu> bug 1431473 in linux (Ubuntu Vivid) "kvm_intel (nested) module will not load [Input/output error]" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1431473
[16:14] <matsubara> rbasak, ok. I'll follow through in the bug tracker
[16:15] <hallyn_> interesting.  thanks for tracking that down.  that one scared me
[16:15] <hallyn_> any questions for smb?
[16:15] <hallyn_> smb: anything more to bring up?
[16:16] <smb> nope nothing that I can think of
[16:16] <hallyn_> thanks
[16:16] <hallyn_> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:16] <hallyn_> Anything coming up?
[16:16]  * hallyn_ realizes he's heard nothing about ODS talk acceptances...
[16:17] <hallyn_> moving on,
[16:17] <hallyn_> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:18] <hallyn_> no topics?
[16:18] <hallyn_> then we can wrap up,
[16:18] <hallyn_> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:18] <hallyn_> next meeting will be next tuesday March 24 at 16:00 utc
[16:18] <hallyn_> with the honorable rbasak presiding
[16:18] <hallyn_> thanks everyone
[16:18] <hallyn_> #endmeeting
</pre>
