{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== General information ==

Meetingology is a bot running on the #ubuntu-meeting channel and some other channels on the Libera.Chat network. Its purpose is to facilitate meetings and take the minutes. The general principles are as follows: 
* The bot should be quiet unless it has something useful to say. The bot won't echo every command in the channel, but it might confirm in a private message to the user that it understood things (this principle is not yet fully implemented).
* Writing minutes is an activity unworthy of a human, the post meeting minutes process should be copy-paste-done.
* Command compatible with the old Mootbot: you can use [topic] instead of #topic.
* The meeting minutes consist of a summary of the important points, plus a full log of the meeting. 

== Using the bot ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="border: none;"> {*}
| <style="border: none;"> Commands marked with a Circle of Friends can be given by anyone, not only the chair or an op.
|}
=== Managing the meeting ===
 '''#startmeeting''' <meetingtopic> {*} <<BR>>
 Starts the meeting and sets the meeting topic to <meetingtopic>.

 '''#meetingtopic''' <topic><<BR>>
 Sets the meeting topic to <topic>. Use this if you forgot to set the meeting topic when starting the meeting.

 '''#endmeeting'''<<BR>>
 Ends the meeting. Can be used by any chair or any op on the channel.

==== Chair(s) and attendants ====
 '''#chair''' <nick> <nick> ...<<BR>>
 Set any number of people to be chairs of the meeting.

 '''#unchair''' <nick><<BR>>
 Removes any user from the set of chairs of the meeting.

 '''#nick''' <nick><<BR>>
 Adds a nick that has not spoken to the attendants. You can also use this to create a person/respondant for any action item in the minutes.<<BR>>
 ''Example:'' <<BR>>
## nick Community''''''Council<<BR>>
## action Community''''''Council will produce report on . . .<<BR>> 

==== Topics ====
 '''#topic''' <topic><<BR>>
 Sets the current meeting topic to <topic>, which is also saved in the meeting minutes. If the bot has rights, also changes the channel topic.

 '''#subtopic''' <topic><<BR>>
 Sets the current meeting subtopic to <topic>, which is also saved in the meeting minutes.<<BR>>
 Alias: #progress

==== Meeting minutes ====
 '''#accepted''' <text><<BR>>
 Adds an "accepted" item in the meeting minutes.<<BR>>
 Alias: #accept

 '''#action''' <text> {*} <<BR>>
 Adds an "action" item in the meeting minutes. The <text> should have one or more nicks in it.

 '''#agreed''' <text><<BR>>
 Adds an "agreed" item in the meeting minutes.<<BR>>
 Alias: #agree

 '''#help'''<<BR>>
 Adds a "help" item in the meeting minutes. This indicates that the meeting attendants/team need help from somebody.<<BR>>
 Alias: #halp

 '''#idea''' <text> {*} <<BR>>
 Adds an "idea" item in the meeting minutes.

 '''#info''' <text> {*} <<BR>>
 Adds an "info" item in the meeting minutes.

 '''#rejected''' <text><<BR>>
 Adds a "rejected" item in the meeting minutes. Opposite to #agreed.

==== Voting ====
 '''#vote''' <subject><<BR>>
 Starts a vote on <subject>. Votes are given by saying '''+1''', '''0''' or '''-1''' on the channel. Votes are counted once, but you can change your mind as many times as you want before the voting ends.

 '''#votesrequired''' <count><<BR>>
 Specifies the number of votes needed until the vote will pass.
 ''Example:'' #votesrequired 2 means you either need an aggregate of +2 or -2 to pass.
 ''Example:'' if you don't want a 0 to be a deadlock (e.g. if everyone abstains then the vote should fail) then set #votesrequired 1.

 '''#voters''' <nick> <nick> ...<<BR>>
 Set the qualified voters. Use '#voters all' to reset.

 '''#endvote'''<<BR>>
 Ends the vote and announces the results as well as adds them to the meeting minutes.

=== Other bot commands ===
 '''#commands''' {*} <<BR>>
 Lists the commands the bot understands. This is called by #startmeeting so you shouldn't need it.

 '''#link''' {*} <<BR>>
 Pasting a link to the channel already adds a link in the meeting minutes.

 '''#lurk''' and '''#unlurk'''<<BR>>
 Don't use this. Makes the bot quiet/not so quiet. For debugging only.

 '''#meetingname'''<<BR>>
 Sets the meeting name. Use #meetingtopic instead.

 '''#replay'''<<BR>>
 Don't use this. WIP. The idea is to reprocess raw logs looking for meeting commands and output formatted meeting minutes.

 '''#restrictlogs'''<<BR>>
 Don't use this. Untested feature that chmods log files. Useless in publicly logged channels.

 '''#save'''<<BR>>
 Don't use this. Flushes meeting minutes to disk. This is called by #endmeeting.

 '''#undo'''<<BR>>
 Undoes the last command from the logs. Doesn't always work.
