{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** SpamapS to submit rubygems change proposal as Important bug in Debian and CC ubuntu-devel
** zul to nudge forward upstart script review process
** jjohansen to review bug 493156
** zul to review papercut status of bug 582963
* Maverick development (jib)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** pv-ops kernel status update
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Papercuts status (ttx)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-08-31 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== Minutes ===

===== ACTION points from previous meetings =====

* SpamapS to submit rubygems change proposal as Important bug in Debian and CC ubuntu-devel
** More work is needed and will be resubmiited
* zul to nudge forward upstart script review process
** Done
* jjohansen to review bug 493156
** Not Done
* zul to review papercut status of bug 582963
** Not Done

===== Maverick Development =====

* ttx mentioned that we are bit behind with maverick development, but with a nice trends line. 
* Beta Freeze was last thursday only RC fixes will be accepted.
* ttx mentioed that he has burnup charts available that makes it a bit easier to read.

  ACTION: ttx to make burnup charts available to people who them

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team =====

* Still testing eucalyptus.
* QA is going through regression-potential bugs and will ping the team when they are ready.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team ====

* jjohansen was working on fix for the xen kernels because a security fix broke them.
* jjohansen mentioned that there was a fix for the phantom High load average on EC2.
* bug 606373 is currnently being worked on.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team =====

* Skipped sommer was not available

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team =====

* Cloud forum is available on ubuntu forums now.
* Working on a new resource and news aggregator for new developers.

===== Papercuts status =====

** We had until Thursday to fix the last six. so you had to unassign yourself to give someone else a chance to fix the bug.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 14th at 18:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:01] <zul> #startmeeting
[19:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:01. The chair is zul.
[19:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:02] <zul> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:02] <zul> so the points were:
[19:02] <zul> SpamapS to submit rubygems change proposal as Important bug in Debian and CC ubuntu-devel
[19:02] <zul> is this done?
[19:03] <zul> SpamapS: ^^^
[19:03] <SpamapS> I had a chat with some of they ruby debian maintainers, specifically Lucas Nussbaum, and he explained that a bit more care is in order when discussing the matter with Daigo, the debian maintainer.
[19:03] <zul> heh so whats next?
[19:03] <SpamapS> So I've reworked the wording a bit, and will be submitting it today or tomorrow.
[19:03] <zul> cool
[19:03] <zul> zul to nudge forward upstart script review process
[19:03] <zul> is done
[19:04] <zul> jjohansen to review bug 493156
[19:04] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 493156 in iotop (Ubuntu) "Please enable CONFIG_TASK_DELAY_ACCT" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/493156
[19:04] <zul> jjohansen: ^^^
[19:04] <zul> doesnt seem to be here
[19:04] <jjohansen> right, I haven't gotten to this yet.  The next SRU kernel is a few weeks out so it hasn't been high priority
[19:04] <zul> nifty thanks
[19:05] <jjohansen> nah, just a slow typist
[19:05] <smoser> o/
[19:05] <zul> and finally zul to review papercut status of bug 582963
[19:05] <zul> havent done yet
[19:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 582963 in apache2 (Ubuntu) "SSL pass phrase dialog can't read input" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/582963
[19:05] <zul> so
[19:05] <zul> [TOPIC] Maverick development (jib)
[19:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development (jib)
[19:05] <ttx> jib is marked "absent" so I guess I'll take care of this one
[19:06]  * SpamapS prepares for the beating
[19:06] <ttx> We should be at ~ 60% completion
[19:07] <ttx> we are a bit behind, but with a nice trends
[19:07] <ttx> especially on my "don't count sundays please" graph version
[19:07] <ttx> Thursday is BetaFreeze
[19:07] <mathiaz> ttx: sunday *and* saturday?
[19:07] <ttx> mathiaz: yes :)
[19:07] <zul> yes i call it family time :)
[19:07] <SpamapS> ttx: are you publishing those graphs in parallel somewhere?
[19:08] <ttx> SpamapS: no. But I could.
[19:08] <ttx> so past Thursday only the RC fixes will be accepted, until Beta release
[19:08] <zul> do we have a list of rc fixes alreayd?
[19:08] <ttx> you should take that into account in organizing your work...
[19:08] <Daviey> ttx: It would be interesting to see those graphs, can you publish them under ~ttx/?
[19:09] <ttx> zul: yes, bug targeted to a maverick milestone
[19:09] <ttx> that means, for example, that papercuts must be taken care of before Thursday :)
[19:09] <ttx> (or dropped forever)
[19:10] <Daviey> *forever* sounds so final, how about deferred to N? :)
[19:10] <ttx> As usual, if yo uthink you are overloaded and can't complete the work items assigned to you in time, please tell me and/or jib
[19:10] <ttx> so that we can adjust/postpone/reassign accordingly
[19:10] <zul> its ok to say narwhal although awkward
[19:10] <ttx> the sooner we know, the better
[19:11] <zul> so i guess moving on
[19:11] <zul> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:11] <ttx> zul: action me on trying to make the burnup charts available
[19:11] <zul> sorry
[19:11] <mathiaz> ttx: where is the completion percentage coming from?
[19:11] <zul> [ACTION]  action me on trying to make the burnup charts available  ttx
[19:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:   action me on trying to make the burnup charts available  ttx
[19:11] <ttx> mathiaz: the 60% ?
[19:11] <mathiaz> ttx: should we publish it in the WI tracker?
[19:11] <mathiaz> ttx: yes
[19:12] <mathiaz> ttx: I don't see that number anywhere in the WI tracker
[19:12] <mathiaz> ttx: I'd like to know where I am now, and where I'm supposed to be
[19:12] <ttx> a rough eye estimate of the number of days completed / vs. total number of days in milestone
[19:12]  * Daviey finds it less than fun trying to find out where the %'s are based.  The WI tracker has an emphasis on assigned blueprints, not WI on non-assigned blueprints
[19:12] <SpamapS> mathiaz: its not obvious, but its from the trend line.
[19:12] <Daviey> making it somewhat of a PITA to locate.
[19:12] <mathiaz> SpamapS: ^^ could we make this available in the WI tracker?
[19:13]  * Daviey fears he has some hidden %'s in blueprints he hasn't checked recently.
[19:13] <mathiaz> SpamapS: well - the % is actually shown in the burndown chart
[19:13] <SpamapS> mathiaz: pretty simple to add a Y axis on the right w/ %, and draw horizontal lines every 7 days bisecting the trend line.
[19:13] <mathiaz> SpamapS: anyway - food for though
[19:13] <SpamapS> s/bisecting/intersecting
[19:14] <mathiaz> may be I should look again at how to read a burndown chart
=== gnomefreak76 is now known as gnomefreak
[19:14] <zul> ok so
[19:14] <ttx> for the record, the burnup chart looks like http://people.canonical.com/~ttx/after.svg
[19:14] <ttx> the branch implementing it is proposed for merging in lp-work-item-tracker
[19:14] <zul> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:14] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:15] <hggdh> hi
=== bjf is now known as bjf[afk]
[19:15] <hggdh> nothing new, except still testing euca
[19:15] <mathiaz> hggdh: how was the QA sprint?
[19:15] <hggdh> mathiaz: I did not go, did not have time
[19:16] <Daviey> :(
[19:16] <zul> any interesting bugs?
[19:16]  * Daviey cheers hggdh for his QA'ing of euca.
[19:16] <hggdh> at QA we are going thru the regression-potential bugs now; as I find server bugs, I will ping you all
[19:16] <hggdh> we hope to get to the regression-release bugs soon...
[19:16] <zul> any other questions?
[19:17]  * kirkland highfives hggdh 
[19:17] <kirkland> (as usual)
[19:17]  * hggdh gets a bit more happy
[19:17]  * zul hugs hggdh 
[19:17]  * mathiaz hightens hggdh 
[19:18]  * jdstrand heightens hggdh 
[19:18] <jdstrand> wait, what?
[19:18] <hggdh> :-)
[19:18] <zul> ok so moving on
[19:18] <zul> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:18] <kirkland> jdstrand: can you heighten me?
[19:18] <jjohansen> first up
[19:18] <jjohansen> Bug #620994 - security fix breaks Xen kernels
[19:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 620994 in linux (Ubuntu Hardy) "linux 2.6.24-28.75 breaks xen flavours (xen kernel bug: 'kernel BUG at /build/buildd/linux-2.6.24/debian/build/custom-source-xen/mm/memory.c:2704')" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/620994
[19:19] <jdstrand> kirkland: hehe
[19:19] <zul> jjohansen: oh thats fun
[19:21] <zul> jjohansen: did you see how opensuse fixes it?
=== Andre_Gondim-afk is now known as Andre_Gondim
[19:21] <jdstrand> iirc, they didn't apply the security update because they had some other patch in place
[19:22] <jjohansen> zul: as far as I know they don't yet.  Its actively being discussed upstream
[19:22] <zul> jjohansen: nifty
[19:22] <jjohansen> jdstrand: is right that they have a different patch in place so the security vul didn't hit their kernels
[19:23] <zul> bah...xen is fun
[19:23] <jjohansen> however, they don't have a fix for this bug and the patch applied upstream
[19:23] <jjohansen> yeah, and the details are ugly
[19:23] <zul> xen is also the cause of male pattern baldness
[19:23] <jjohansen> Bug #574910  - fixed for Lucid, also affects Maverick we have a work around that can be applied but don't have a patch yet
[19:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574910 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "High load averages on Lucid while idling" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574910
[19:23] <jjohansen> the SRU should hit proposed kernels in about 3 weeks
[19:24] <zul> anything else?
[19:24] <jjohansen> Bug #606373 - I am looking at currently and hope to have fixed soon :)
[19:24] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 606373 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "cloud-init output does not get to console when booted with pv-grub and ramdisk" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/606373
[19:24] <SpamapS> jjohansen: fixed in lucid! huzzah!
[19:25] <jjohansen> SpamapS: yes, but the fix won't land in proposed for a few weeks
[19:25] <zul> i guess new kernels in ec2 mean new images?
[19:26] <SpamapS> jjohansen: having an SRU to point at means no longer explaining to people why lucid on EC2 "lags" or "is slow" or "is t3h suck" ;)
[19:26] <smoser> it shoudl, yes, but only if they boot
[19:26] <smoser> i was planning on a new image later this week, we're currently one kernel behind as it is.
[19:26] <Daviey> rockin'
[19:27] <jjohansen> ..
[19:27] <zul> so i guess no has anything else moving on to the next topic
[19:28] <zul> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:28] <Daviey> He have his apologies :(
[19:28] <zul> which will be skipped since sommer cant make it
[19:28] <zul> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:28] <Daviey> He gave his apologies :)
[19:28] <Daviey> but...
[19:28] <Daviey> he sent me an email with his update:
[19:28] <Daviey> I've been focusing on consolidating "cloud" communication channels
[19:28] <Daviey> Currently the official Ubuntu IRC channel for anything cloud related is #ubuntu-cloud
[19:28] <Daviey> As for the forums, we now have a forum for "cloud" at http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=392
[19:28] <Daviey> The forums council were worried whether a cloud forum would attract enough members to justify it's own forums, but since its an egg and chicken problem, they agreed to allow us the forum till 11.04 and then evaluate how strong it's been going
[19:28] <Daviey> Finally, I'm building a web portal that aims to be a resource and news aggregator for new community members
[19:28] <Daviey> If you have ideas as to what should be present on that portal that helps members engage in a developer path, please drop me a line over IRC or email
[19:28] <Daviey> That should be all for me
[19:29] <zul> cool....
[19:29] <zul> so next
[19:29] <zul> [TOPIC] Papercuts status (ttx)
[19:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Papercuts status (ttx)
[19:29] <ttx> yo
[19:29] <ttx> Status at https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-beta
[19:29] <ttx> We have until Thursday to fix tha last 6
[19:30] <ttx> If you can't make it, unassign yourself to give someone else a chance :)
[19:30] <ttx> zul: done :)
[19:30] <SpamapS> bug 375371 is awaiting sponsorship
[19:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 375371 in mysql-dfsg-5.1 (Ubuntu) "MySQL must not use /tmp" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/375371
[19:30] <zul> SpamapS: has it been tested yet?
[19:31] <SpamapS> zul: Right, it failed on some tests, but the previous revision failed the same tests, so I think I'm failing on how to run the tests.
[19:31] <zul> SpamapS: ok ill have a look at it this afternoon
[19:31] <zul> anyone else?
[19:31] <SpamapS> causing me to think there should be another bug opened against mysql-testsuite that asks for documentation explaining how one is supposed to run them.
[19:32] <zul> heh ask sbeattie
[19:32] <zul> anyways
[19:32] <zul> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:32] <Daviey> Can we go home now? :)
[19:32] <SpamapS> That was like, way too fast.
[19:32] <SpamapS> we need more hyperbole
[19:32] <zul> Daviey: thats what I was thinking...oh wait..
=== oubiwann is now known as oubiwann-away
[19:33] <ttx> SpamapS: twss ?
[19:34] <zul> so if there is no discussion
[19:34] <zul> Tuesday 2010-08-31 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:34] <zul> is when the next meeting is
[19:34] <zul> thanks everyone
[19:35] <mathiaz> zul: thanks!
[19:35] <Daviey> o/
[19:35] <zul> #endmeeting
[19:35] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:35.
[19:35]  * Daviey cheers zul for running the quickest meeting in living memory.
</pre>
