{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
03:03 mdz        daniels SMSed with connectivity problems
03:03 mdz        infinity and janew are on leave
03:03 mdz        so let's get started
03:04 mdz        BenC: shoot
03:04 BenC       testing-server-hardware: NOT STARTED
                 preventing-hardware-support-regressions: Automated build working. Designed as a
03:04 BenC       push trigger system (slightly contrary to original design spec). Hopefully ronne
                 will be stable enough to start using as a build host.
03:04 BenC       ubuntu-server-kernel: STALLED: amd64 and i386 are done. I'm contemplating on
                 whether doing other architectures is even wanted right now.
=== SloMoSnail [n=slomo@p5487EF2F.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:04 BenC       milestone: 2.6.15 is final and in dapper
03:05 mdz        BenC: by testing-server-hardware, do you mean the certification spec by that
                 name, or the actual community testing program which was intended?
03:05 BenC       spec
03:05 mdz        ok, please swap them then
03:05 BenC       it's assigned to me, but really, most of the work is on malcom to get the ball
                 rolling
03:05 mdz        exactly
03:05 BenC       ok
=== jbailey [n=jbailey@modemcable139.249-203-24.mc.videotron.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:05 mdz        meanwhile, the community testing program (which is what that spec should have
                 become) should be able to be started immediately
03:05 BenC       oh, and ubuntu-server-kernel still needs to be approved
03:05 mdz        who's the approver?
03:06 jbailey    mdz: Please do me last, my machine just puked, need a couple minutes to get
                 reconnected.
03:06 BenC       mdz: fabio :)
03:06 BenC       fabbione: approve me damnit
03:06 fabbione   BenC: ok, will do
=== Kamion [n=cjwatson@83-216-156-196.colinw664.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:06 mdz        a bit late now that it's been implemented; hope it's OK ;-)
03:06 fabbione   BenC: i didn't notice it was ready for approval
03:06 BenC       thanks
03:06 fabbione   mdz: well yeah :)
03:06 Kamion     excuse me, I just typed an unwise thing into my IRC client
03:06 BenC       hehe
03:07 mdz        BenC: regarding powerpc, I'm not fussed either way
03:07 Kamion     sorry, context?
03:07 fabbione   BenC: i think we still wants them. elmo gave me some ideas about -server kernels
                 today (together with other people)
03:07 BenC       ppc64 is the only thing worth -server, but it's not really terrible in it's
                 current state
03:07 fabbione   BenC: but we can take it outside
                 BenC: as part of preventing-hardware-support-regressions, please draft a mail for
03:07 mdz        -announce to explain that we really, really need the community to test our
                 milestones for hardware regressions
03:08 mdz        Kamion: context = ubuntu-server-kernel
03:08 Kamion     thanks
03:08 mdz        daniels is on leave
03:08 mdz        dholbach: next
03:08 dholbach   inclusion-of-docs: did another update, mdke did a call for proofreaders /
                 doc-testers
03:08 dholbach   this week (done): gnome 2.13.4, bug triage
03:08 dholbach   this week (to do): some missing gnome uploads, catching up on bug triage
03:08 dholbach   next week: more bug triage, do a bug day, get an overview over universe (merges,
                 new packages), merges, make check list for uvf
03:08 mdz        dholbach: if the inclusion-of-docs process is in place and working, we can
                 consider it completed
03:09 dholbach   mdz: ok, i'll change the spec data then
03:09 mdz        if there is no more work to be done on it apart from continuing to do updates
=== jbailey [n=jbailey@modemcable139.249-203-24.mc.videotron.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:09 dholbach   mdz, Kamion: did the ubuntu-docs update go to breezy yet?
03:09 dholbach   breezy-updates I mean
03:09 mdz        I'm behind on mail
03:09 ogra_ibook dholbach, we're waiting for infinity
03:09 Kamion     dholbach: when I last had time to check, the edubuntu-artwork interaction wasn't
                 sorted out yet
03:10 dholbach   ogra_ibook: i think not for breezy
03:10 dholbach   oh alright
03:10 ogra_ibook dholbach, he wanted to review the alternatives change we need
03:10 dholbach   ok, i'll talk to infinity then
03:10 mdz        dholbach: how is test-plans going?
03:10 ogra_ibook Kamion, it is sorted, he just needs to approve the patches
03:10 mdz        that's a high priority goal
03:11 dholbach   mdz: i did some changes to it and talked to the media team about more tests, now
                 we need some community buzz around it
03:11 dholbach   mdz: i'll put more work into it
03:11 mdz        dholbach: what remains to be done in order to meet the requirements of the spec?
03:11 mdz        dholbach: I suggest having a talk with BenC regarding test-plans
03:11 mdz        and preventing-hardware-support-regressions
03:11 mdz        we should have a hardware support test plan component if we don't already
03:12 dholbach   mdz: we had a conversation on email about that already - but we will continue on
                 that
03:12 mdz        ok, thanks
03:12 mdz        doko: next
03:12 doko       this week:
                 - openoffice.org: integrating martink's xmlsearch patch, prepackaged
03:12 doko       ooo2-helpcontent can be dropped, fighting with build problems only seen on the
                 buildd's (l10n), prepare packages for breezy-updates (support work), fighting gij
                 problems on powerpc, currently work around it.
03:12 doko       - toolchain-roadmap: scan bugzilla for open reports, forward/close, snyc/merge
                 packages with gcc-4.0 fixes
03:12 doko       - python-roadmap: delayed again for next week
03:12 doko       next week:
03:12 doko       - openoffice.org: merge with unstable, update the current milestone, update
                 dictionaries
03:12 doko       - python-roadmap: python-central update
03:12 doko       - syncs/merges which need to be done before UVF.
03:12 doko       status:
03:12 doko       - toolchain-roadmap: amd64-biarch (still blocked), should be ready this week
03:12 doko       - toolchain-dapper+1: blocked by preparation of wanna-build and buildd
                 infrastructure
03:12 doko       - openoffice-gnome: not started, martink will work on testsuite packaging and
                 gnome integration testing (i.e. file selector in January)
03:12 doko       - openoffice-help: implemented
03:12 doko       - openoffice-spellchecking: not started
03:12 doko       - native-java-gcj: infrastructure is ready, packaging of -gcj binary packages not
                 started
03:12 doko       - java-roadmap: mostly done, pending are eclipse updates and the native-java-gcj
                 support
=== Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@CPE-144-136-118-222.nsw.bigpond.net.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:13 mdz        doko: which syncs/merges are on your list for before UVF?
=== seth_k|lappy [n=seth@ubuntu/member/sethkinast] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:14 doko       mdz: I was going through current upstream version from distrowatch, where we are
                 behind major versions
03:14 mdz        I talked to jbailey about biarch, and he hoped to have it finished by now or soon
                 after the meeting
03:15 doko       i.e. Bittorrent, vnc, and some other. plus various python related packages, which
                 should be current upstream
03:15 mdz        doko: I'm interested to hear what you found in your upstream version comparison;
                 please send me an email on it
03:15 doko       yes, biarch should not be a problem
03:15 mdz        jbailey: can you commit to having it ready by the end of this week?
03:15 doko       mdz: ok, tomorrow
03:16 mdz        jbailey may still be fixing his machine...
03:16 mdz        doko: thanks
03:16 jbailey    mdz: Assuming I get gdb and an editor that's not nano on the new porting box
                 fairly earlyish tomorrow, yes.
03:16 jbailey    (madly retyping my status update, sorry)
03:16 mdz        jbailey: do you have an RT ticket open already?
03:16 jbailey    Yup
03:16 mdz        ok
03:16 mdz        fabbione: next
********* server-candy: system-integrity-check (ex md5client) has been partially
03:16 fabbione   redesigned and rewritten. There is an outstanding performance issue that we are
                 working on (client side). Deploy is blocked on admins (rt: #723). Commu
03:16 fabbione   nity is growning fast with positive response and picking up tasks from the specs.
03:16 fabbione   * ubuntu-cluster: full upgrades of currently supported suites. I doubt we will
                 manage to get more in dapper as n
03:16 fabbione   ew features. Need to test all the new upstream code that landed in the last 2
                 days.
03:16 fabbione   * probe-for-root-filesystem: no progress this week.
03:17 fabbione   * boot-from-usb: blocked by probe-for-root-filesystem.
03:17 fabbione   * merges: zlib - still pending libc6-i386-dev, one merge (partman-auto-lvm) is
                 pending but nothing scary or urgent.
03:17 fabbione   * last week: system-integrity-check and server-candy work, ubuntu-cluster, kernel
                 regression (#20771).
03:17 fabbione   * next week: change the default kernel install on -server with Kamion,
                 servercandy full speed, possibly start on probe-for-root-filesystem.
03:17 fabbione   (the latter is modulo Kamion availability to hack on switching the kernel)
03:17 Kamion     I can walk you through most of it in about ten minutes
03:17 mdz        fabbione: anytime you are blocked on server-candy, please start on
                 boot-from-usb/probe-for-root-filesystem.  those are relatively important
03:18 Kamion     for that matter I can probably *do* it in about ten minutes, but no promises :-)
03:18 fabbione   mdz: i am rarely blocked on server-candy as real work. I am blocked from
                 uploading a final package in the archive
03:18 mdz        fabbione: libc6-i386-dev is part of the same biarch work that jbailey is working
                 on?
03:18 fabbione   Kamion: ok :)
03:18 fabbione   mdz: yes afaik
03:18 jbailey    mdz: Yes, that and libc6-i386
03:19 mdz        fabbione: boot-from-usb should make it into a milestone soon so that it can be
                 tested
03:19 mdz        sometime before the sprint definitely
03:19 fabbione   mdz: it's a medium priority spec. server-candy is sucking most of my time
03:19 fabbione   mdz:  i will try to prioritize it
03:20 mdz        fabbione: it should take a lot less time; if you can squeeze it in, then it would
                 be best to get it done early
03:20 mdz        thanks
03:20 mdz        infinity is on leave
03:20 mdz        iwj: next
                 AutomatedTesting:  No change since last report.  I will resume work on this next
03:20 iwj        week.  Apparently the IBM LTC are interested in this too and there's going to be
                 a call (organised by Malcom Yates I think).
                 Firefox maintenance:  Release today to fix packaging problems; more work needed
03:20 iwj        and I hope to have another release on Friday.  BreezyFirefoxStartPageTranslation
                 didn't happen and Matthew East and I haven't quite settled on the scheme for
                 Dapper.  I'm trying not to let ff consume more than 50% of me but it's tough.
03:20 iwj        DefaultApplicationsFirefox: no change since last report.  Firefox needs more
                 other work too - see above.
                 ThinClientLocalDevices: It has disappeared from my specs table in
03:20 iwj        launchpad.  What has happened ?  Has it been cancelled ?  Surely I should have
                 got some kind of notification ?
03:20 iwj        Email backlog: considerable, still.
03:20 iwj        DeveloperDocumentation: Not started, not blocked.
03:21 mdz        iwj: let's chat about firefox strategy later on today
03:21 iwj        You mean after the meeting ?
03:21 mdz        yes, and after you've slept, assuming you plan to
03:22 iwj        I was going to get 8 hours if I could ...
03:22 mdz        right, so later today when you're awake
03:22 iwj        Right.
03:22 mdz        you mentioned last week that you were waiting for something from robert
                 collins?  did you get it?
03:22 iwj        No; but it wasn't critical.
03:23 iwj        It's starting to be past the point where it'd be useful and I don't want to block
                 on it.  He had some ideas about the test list spec file.
03:23 mdz        thin client local devices seems unlikely to make it for dapper
03:23 ogra_ibook yup
03:23 mdz        I think it needs more discussion and design work
03:23 iwj        Right.  Shouldn't lp have sent me a mail ?
03:23 iwj        Certainly, yes.
03:23 mdz        I don't think the spec tracker sends email for anything yet
03:23 iwj        Oh.
03:24 mdz        it's a work in progress, feel free to hit #launchpad with questions
03:24 iwj        Right.
03:24 iwj        Then I think whoever canned it for dapper (good decision) should have told me ?
03:24 mdz        ok, thanks
03:24 mdz        jbailey asked to be bumped to the end
03:24 jbailey    mdz: I'm okay now
                 ToolchainRoadmap: Biarch packages in progress (didn't want NEW handling over the
03:24 jbailey    winter break).  Updated to 2.3.6.  Some more Debian patches to take in, but all
                 the packaging updates are done.
                 ToolchainRoadmapNg: Upstream glibc announced ABI freeze date for glibc-2.4
03:24 jbailey    (January 9th), so we will do glibc 2.4 for Dapper +1.  Posted question about
                 dropping pre-i686 to ubuntu-devel, no negative feedback.  Haven't sync'd this
                 with doko yet, but hopefully archive rebuild tests can proceed with this in mind.
                 Merges: klibc - definetly following "release early, release often".  Looks like
03:24 jbailey    the 1.1.15 release is finally good enough to boot all arches, so UVF is smelling
                 good.
03:24 jbailey    glibc - More debian patches to bring in.
03:24 mdz        ok then
03:25 mdz        jbailey: I haven't had a chance to review your mail about pre-i686 in depth yet,
                 will do so soon
03:25 jbailey    mdz: Thanks.
03:26 mdz        it's a proposal for dapper+1 presumably, so no rush?
03:26 jbailey    Right, but it's invasive enough it would be nice to do tests by mid-feb
03:26 doko       no rush is relative ...
03:26 ogra_ibook heh
03:26 mdz        e.g., we can talk about it in London in a few weeks
03:26 jbailey    Yup.
03:26 mdz        ok, thanks
03:26 mdz        Kamion: next
                 ubuntu-express-base-system: Tollef's split out the keymapper widget from
03:26 Kamion     cdebconf. I have username/password configuration working by calling code from
                 user-setup, which is very encouraging and I think validates my basic approach.
                 ubuntu-express: Not a lot else of note, although I have got a fair bit more
03:27 Kamion     infrastructure nailed down as a result of the above. Main short-term goal is to
                 polish up the guts to the point where others can help.
                 misc: Single-stage installer work merged from Debian, killing base-config and
03:27 Kamion     fixing lots of bugs; testing appreciated. Only two days' work so far this week
                 due to holidays.
03:27 Kamion     blocked: Need a way to get the unmodified file system on the live CD in order to
                 implement ubuntu-express-copy-filesystem. Tollef is working on this.
                 next-week: Start back in on ue-partitioning-tool; I have the infrastructure now
03:27 Kamion     to make that roughly sensible. gfxboot-theme-ubuntu bug fixes and maybe an
                 enhancement or two needed for cd-bootloader.
03:27 mdz        we covered the salient bits on the phone today, I think
03:27 Kamion     yeah, I think so
03:28 mdz        thanks
03:28 mdz        Keybuk: next
03:28 Keybuk     udev-roadmap: Implemented
03:28 Keybuk     hardware-detection: Implemented (informational)
03:28 Keybuk     hardware-activation: Implemented
03:28 Keybuk     streamlined-boot: Uploads in progress, doing merges as I do the uploads.
                 network-magic: Going to test madwifi-ng, which may unblock
03:28 Keybuk     network-manager.  netbase and ifupdown modifications planned.  have a plan for
                 using udev's native "ifrename" support, and reliably swapping interface names.
03:28 Keybuk     this week: finish streamlined-boot, do ifupdown work
03:28 mdz        Keybuk: is there a followup to be done regarding the urgent-reboot-notification
                 bit?
=== wlach [n=wlach@ptr-66-11-85-81.ptr.terago.ca] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
03:28 mdz        (from udev-roadmap)
03:28 Keybuk     I'm not sure, that was seperated into another spec that mpt was working on
03:29 Keybuk     udev does the right "reboot required" thing for the current lightbulb
03:29 mdz        I'm assuming it's not a critical piece of udev-roadmap, since it's set to
                 implemented
03:29 Keybuk     the mpt spec was to make that a little more obvious I think
03:29 Keybuk     right
03:29 mdz        ok
03:29 mdz        streamlined-boot is looking mostly reasonable, but please, pretty please, fix
                 that bug which broke shutdown
03:29 Keybuk     yup, have it fixed already, will upload tomorrow morning along with the "mount
                 /dev/pts again" fix
03:30 mdz        ok
03:30 mdz        thanks
03:30 mdz        are krstic or lathiat here?
03:30 mdz        no
03:30 mdz        Mithrandir: next
03:30 Mithrandir ooo-amd64: no progress
03:30 Mithrandir live-cd-performance: incremental progress seen, going to look at squashfs some
                 more for more speedups, as well as doing more readahead.  Well on track
03:30 Mithrandir one-true-path: no progress
03:30 Mithrandir simplified-livecd: mostly there, keyboard selection now works, locales works,
                 SCSI cdroms work,
03:30 Mithrandir media-integrity-check: almost there, was hanging on usplash bugs, I think I have
                 fixed them now.  If so, implemented
03:31 Mithrandir network-authentication: no progress
03:31 Mithrandir livecd-unionfs: implemented, but the powerpc kernel has problems with unionfs
03:31 Mithrandir blocked on: some live cd infrastructure stuff, like getting squashfs support in,
                 generally people getting back from vacation.
03:31 mdz        Mithrandir,Kamion: is it feasible to use different overlay systems (unionfs,
                 cloop) on different architectures for the sake of powerpc?
03:32 Mithrandir already implemented
03:32 mdz        right, it's implemented in casper, but is it reasonable to actually do this for
                 the final release?
03:32 Mithrandir it loses a fair chunk of space on the powerpc cd
03:32 mdz        at the least it would mean that we wouldn't be able to take much advantage of the
                 space savings by adding software
03:32 Kamion     we could take advantage of it with language packs on x86 still
03:32 mdz        unless we did it only on i386 and amd64
03:33 Kamion     has anyone got stuck into the unionfs bugs at all? I know BenC has a powerpc now
                 ...
03:33 mdz        is powerpc still pressed for space in current dapper?
=== daniels [n=daniels@amnesiac.heapspace.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:33 ogra_ibook yup
03:33 daniels    hi, sorry I'm late.
03:33 Mithrandir do we have any kind of estimate how much effort it would be to fix the unionfs
                 bugs?
03:33 mdz        642M it looks like
03:33 mdz        daniels: got your SMS
03:33 dholbach   daniels! :)
03:33 mdz        Mithrandir: I certainly don't
03:34 mdz        the unionfs bugs I have gotten friendly with have been a lot of work to track
                 down
03:34 Mithrandir hmm, that sounds bad.
03:34 mdz        Mithrandir: are they straightforward reproducible bugs, or weird bugs?
03:34 Kamion     Mithrandir: keyboard selection> we still need the bootloader side of that, and
                 maybe simplified command line argument aliases for the sake of powerpc
03:34 Kamion     mdz: oopsen
03:34 Kamion     followed by weird bugs
03:34 Mithrandir mdz: ENOPOWERPC, so ask colin?
03:35 Kamion     but reproducible, the desktop goes insane
03:35 Kamion     at least on my box, but I think somebody else mentioned similar issues
03:35 mdz        Mithrandir: speaking of oopsen, is there a bug filed for that non-fatal oops
                 during boot on the live cd?
03:35 Mithrandir Kamion: yes, but I'm guessing based on locale, which is somewhat-reasonable.
03:35 Mithrandir mdz: I haven't filed one, but I asked benc about it, he didn't have any offhand
                 ideas, at least.  Might be in an awkward spot to debug.
03:36 mdz        please get it into bugzilla for tracking
03:36 Mithrandir ok
03:36 Mithrandir I'll see if I can actually _capture_ the oops as well
03:36 mdz        Mithrandir: does network-authentication look like something we can actually
                 achieve, or no?
03:36 fabbione   Mithrandir: benc got ppc last week.
03:36 mdz        it's getting late in the cycle to start a new 30+ developer-day project
03:37 mdz        it has an approved spec, but iirc it's not entirely clear what we should do there
03:37 Mithrandir mdz: I'm getting doubtful, especially if we want to try to get multiarch and such
                 started before dapper's out.
                 mdz: you
03:37 dholbach   meant  https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/5838
                 ?
03:37 mdz        dholbach: yes, that looks like the same bug
03:38 mdz        on a related note, the bugzilla->malone migration is tentatively scheduled for
                 next week
03:38 mdz        look for an announcement soon with details and instructions
=== seb128 notes to get bug triaged before that :p
03:38 jbailey    mdz: Got a related note on Soyuz, too?
03:38 dholbach   mdz: do you know if we will have the default-assignees / qa-contacts?
03:38 Mithrandir mdz: we should talk about if we should go for squashfs or not, at some point.
03:38 pitti      mdz: I already wondered, wasn't it planned for right before xmas?
03:39 Kamion     dholbach: the bug contacts stuff is in as I understand it, yes
03:39 mdz        pitti: there were some delays, and then holidays pushed everything forward
03:39 Mithrandir mdz: since currently, the speed optimisations are mostly me trying different
                 things, some of which have infrastructural changes (such as squashfs)
03:39 seb128     if it's in atm it doesn't work
03:39 Kamion     see https://wiki.launchpad.canonical.com/BugzillaImportProcess for the planned
                 procedure
03:39 dholbach   Kamion: then I'll have to figure out how it works. :)
03:39 mdz        soyuz rollout is scheduled for the week of January 23rd, directly before the
                 sprint
03:39 dholbach   pitti: late christmas present
03:39 mdz        I will be in London that week assisting the Launchpad team with the rollout
03:39 Kamion     seb128: the actual contact data hasn't been imported yet; it'll be imported right
                 before the rollout
03:39 mdz        dholbach: we will have default contacts
03:39 Kamion     but the code is, I'm told, landed
03:39 dholbach   mdz: cool.
03:39 seb128     would be nice to get the code running for some time before
03:40 seb128     so we know if it works fine
03:40 mdz        seb128: the bugzilla default assignees will be imported very soon, I think in the
                 next couple of days
03:40 Kamion     to do that we'd have to agree to freeze component maintainer data in bugzilla
03:40 mdz        there's a thread on the launchpad list about the migration
03:40 mdz        Kamion: it's pretty stable really; there will be an announcement when we should
                 stop touching it
03:41 dholbach   seb128: we should split up some packages for that and make sure we get the bugs
                 on desktop-bugs@ too
03:41 seb128     yep
03:41 mdz        you'll be able to add an arbitrary number of bug contacts for a package
03:41 mdz        rather than just an assignee and a QA contact as in bugzilla
03:41 mdz        so it should be easier to involve teams and interested individuals
03:41 Kamion     at the moment, you can only add yourself as a contact; we can't do it for you,
                 the way we've been doing in bugzilla
03:41 Kamion     kind of swings and roundabouts there
03:41 mdz        right, s/you/launchpad admins/ for now
03:41 mdz        but I'm a launchpad admin
03:42 mdz        so feel free to route those requests through me
03:42 Keybuk     hmm, what about when you punt a bug across to a different package
03:42 Kamion     shall we defer more about this to other business at the end of the meeting, just
                 to make sure we get through everyone?
03:42 mdz        Mithrandir: if we're going to do squashfs on i386/amd64, we should go ahead and
                 do it straight away
03:42 Keybuk     I do that maybe 5-10 times a day with kernel or pmount bugs
03:42 Keybuk     which obviously need contact changes
03:42 mdz        to get as much testing as possible
03:43 Mithrandir mdz: I'm going to look at it with infinity once he gets back
03:43 mdz        I think it's definitely worth a try; we should be able to switch back painlessly
                 if necessary
03:43 Kamion     it may require fairly trivial cdimage changes; let me know
03:43 dholbach   mdz: I pinged Lathiat - he seems to be there.
03:44 mdz        Keybuk: talk to bradb/launchpad@lists about it; I'm not sure offhand how the
                 semantics work currently
03:44 Mithrandir and jbailey just uploaded a klibc-utils with a squashfs-working fstype, so it
                 should be good.
03:44 mdz        cool
03:44 mdz        thanks, Mithrandir
03:44 mdz        mvo: next
=== Lathiat [i=lathiat@ubuntu/member/lathiat] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:44 mvo        Did:
03:44 mvo        - libnotify 0.3.0 upload/transition (fixed bugs in the daemon, did the api
                 changes on the dependencies, updated seeds) [DapperDesktopPlan]
03:44 mvo        - backported gdebi and updated unattended-upgrades to breezy and ask for testing
                 in ubuntuforums.org [AutomaticUpdates]
03:44 mvo        - improved synaptics support for people with slow internet connection
                 [NonBroadbandUsers]
03:44 mvo        - bugfixes/improvments in gnome-app-install and gdebi [ThirdPartyPackages]
03:44 mvo        Next week:
03:44 mvo        - work on the ThirdPartyPackages spec (add key support to the channels)
03:44 mvo        - work on the AutomaticUpgrades
03:44 mvo        Open merges:
03:44 mvo        - synaptic, aptitude
03:44 mdz        mvo: we still need to talk about the upgrade tool.  later today?
03:44 Lathiat    bingles
03:45 mvo        mdz: yes, when I had some sleep please :)
03:46 mdz        mvo: is release-upgrades blocked on discussion with me?
03:46 mvo        no
03:46 mdz        it wasn't clear whether your comment at the last meeting referred to
                 automatic-upgrades or release-upgrades
03:46 mdz        release-upgrades is your highest priority assignment right now
03:47 mvo        I was asking if it would be worth backporting the automatic-upgrades stuff to
                 breezy to get testing
03:47 mdz        so please be sure to work on it ahead of AutomaticUpgrades
03:47 mvo        right
03:47 mdz        mvo: sure, get it into -backports
03:47 mvo        thanks
03:47 mdz        and send a call for testing to an appropriate list
03:47 mvo        I'll be on dist-upgrades again
03:47 mdz        ok, thanks
03:48 mdz        Lathiat: want to give us a quick update on zeroconf_?
03:48 mvo        I send a request on ubuntuforums (after speaking with the backports team about a
                 appropriate place)
03:49 mdz        Lathiat: is this something we're going to be able to do or not?
03:49 Lathiat    Well avahi is now approved for main
=== BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:49 Riddell    Lathiat: cool
03:49 Lathiat    default installation of avahi-daemon is not possible at this time, but
                 libavahi-client can be installed without avahi-daemon
03:49 Lathiat    so programs like gnomevfs etc can be compiled with it
03:49 Lathiat    the zerocofn stuff will simply not work
03:49 Lathiat    that obviously needs testing to make sure those programs are doing the right
                 thing and wont die because of it
03:49 mdz        ok, I see no reason not to start building in the support if it's in main now
03:49 Lathiat    but shoudl work in theory
03:50 pitti      Lathiat: s/at this time/not sensible because of our security policy/
03:50 Lathiat    main reason not to start avahi-daemon is due to security/open ports policy
=== pitti reminds people that we have only 10 minutes left
03:50 mdz        the spec calls for avahi not to listen on the network by default
03:50 mdz        pitti: good point
03:50 seb128     mdz: I've uploaded a gnome-vfs2 using avahi today, build wait on the actual
                 promotion of the lib
03:50 Lathiat    mdz: which is easily doable by not installing avahi-daemon
03:50 mdz        Lathiat: let's talk about this another time in detail
03:51 mdz        need to keep moving
03:51 mdz        ogra_ibook: next
03:51 ogra_ibook me ?
03:51 mdz        thanks mvo
03:51 Lathiat    ok
03:51 Lathiat    cheers
03:51 ogra_ibook * thin-client-sound: waiting for mdz to approve on return.
03:51 ogra_ibook * thin-client-local-devices: no progress.
03:51 ogra_ibook * thin-client-memory-usage: some more changes locally done and tested, patch to
                 initramfs provided to infinity.
03:51 ogra_ibook * thin-client-faster-startup: speed up the first module loading through the above
                 mentioned patch (http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/attachment.cgi?id=5494).
03:51 ogra_ibook * gnome-screensaver-default-image: will pick dummy images next week to finally
                 have some package up, need to ping sabdfl again for his pics.
********* general: mostly donwe powerpc testing, dhcpd.conf changes for automatic
                 bootimage selection are already up on
03:51 ogra_ibook http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/bzr-archive/ltsp/multiarch/, ltsp-build-client and
                 ltsp-update-kernels still need some work (yaboot and kernel stuff) for full
                 powerpc support. gcompris 7.2 tests for edubntu.
********* next week: testing the dhcpd change for compensating the new introduced
03:51 ogra_ibook --next-server option in ltsp, finish the changes on ltsp-build-client and the
                 ltsp-client package for faster startup, multiarch (powerpc) and mem usage. dig
                 for the reason of the nfs timeouts, gcompris 7.2 and xscreensaver merge.
                 Lathiat: can you push anything involving "ifconfig" past me first (ie. setting of
03:51 Keybuk     an IP address on an interface which doesn't have one) as that'd need
                 co-ordinating with udev and network-manager too
03:51 mdz        ogra_ibook: I reviewed faster-startup and added comments
03:51 ogra_ibook yup i saw in one if my handfull of mails getting through
03:52 mdz        ogra_ibook: Keybuk is the approver for thin-client-sound; there's no reason it
                 should have been blocked on me
03:52 mdz        that could have been taken care of while I was away
03:52 ogra_ibook yu asked to approve it at ubz
03:52 ogra_ibook its mainly implemented ahead of the spec already ...
03:53 mdz        I've said all I have to say on the sound spec since UBZ; it's Keybuk's
03:53 ogra_ibook just missing the ltspsink...
03:53 ogra_ibook oki
03:53 ogra_ibook i'll reassign it
03:53 Keybuk     ping me tomorrow about it
03:53 ogra_ibook yup
03:53 mdz        ok
03:53 mdz        thanks
03:53 mdz        pitti: next
03:53 Keybuk     where tommorow~=today after I've slept :p
03:54 pitti      last days before holidays: fix grave config file handling bugs in cupsys,
                 PHP/kernel security update
03:54 pitti      general stuff this week: security updates, catch up with email and security
                 review, did the overdue g-v-m update
03:54 pitti      gstreamer-audio-backend: implemented everything on our side; the libgnome audio
                 events issue is still left, but that's an upstream thing
03:54 pitti      no progress on other specs, no blocks
03:54 pitti      plan next week: catch up with a load of pending security updates, try to
                 implement the .server files part of langpacks-desktopfiles
03:54 mdz        ok
03:54 mdz        thanks
03:54 mdz        seb128: next
03:54 pitti      mdz: did you have a chance to look at the gstreamer status?
03:54 seb128     dapper-desktop-plan: first version of the new session dialog uploaded
03:54 seb128     video-playback: gstreamer0.10/gst-plugins-base0.10 updated to 0.10.1,
                 rhythmbox/totem built with gst0.10
03:54 seb128     other: bug triage, GNOME 2.13.4
03:54 seb128     next-week: continue to catch up with bugzilla backlog, panel changes of
                 dapper-desktop-plan, starting on gdm changes of dapper-desktop-plan
03:54 pitti      mdz: are you fine with setting it to implemented?
03:54 mdz        pitti: I'm not sure what the issues are; please email
03:55 pitti      mdz: ok
03:55 mdz        seb128: what about the other parts of dapper-desktop-plan?  there is a lot there
03:55 seb128     not that much, that's basically panel/applets change, I'll work on that next week
03:55 seb128     and gdm changes which are next
03:56 mdz        gdm, logout button, battstat applet, etc.
03:56 seb128     button/applets/... are what I listed as "panel changes"
03:56 mdz        I tried out totem-gstreamer with the latest stuff
03:56 mdz        A/V sync seems to still be poor
03:57 mdz        is that your experience as well?
03:57 seb128     what audiosink do you use?
03:57 seb128     it works quite fine for me
03:57 mdz        ALSA
03:58 seb128     pitti: you played with that too, did you have some issue?
03:58 pitti      it works great for me
03:58 pitti      mdz: the default should now be autoaudiosink
03:58 dholbach   for me too
03:58 mdz        hmm, it works well with an mpeg I have, but not a vorbis/theora ogg
03:58 pitti      mdz: it uses esound if dmix doesn't work
03:58 mdz        maybe the ogg is broken, I'll look at it further
03:58 mdz        pitti: I probably changed it at some point
03:58 pitti      mdz: I didn't test with theora, I don't have a theora video here
03:59 mdz        seems unlikely that it's codec-specific, maybe a problem with the stream I tested
                 with
03:59 pitti      mdz: gst 0.10 has its own gconf settings, btw
03:59 ogra_ibook arent the ubz videos theora ?
03:59 mdz        yes
03:59 dholbach   http://videos.ubuntu.com/ubz/
03:59 mdz        I was testing with Martijn's videos
03:59 mdz        anyway, something to look at offline
03:59 mdz        Riddell: next
03:59 Riddell    since last meeting: fixing kubuntu-system-tools, investigate CUPS 1.2 with KDE,
                 investigate gstreamer 0.10 with KDE, daily CD testing
                 this week: bugs fixing notably KDE xkb support, sudo wrapper, hopefully
03:59 Riddell    kubuntu-express partitioning tool, taking delivery of kubuntu breezy CDs and
                 sending them out, KDE avahi support
03:59 Riddell    blocking: kubuntu-package-manager bounty needs response from mdz
03:59 Riddell    also interesting: KDE 3.5.1 scheduled for tagging jan 20th, 3.5.2 for tagging
                 17th march
03:59 mdz        Riddell: what's happening with kubuntu-roadmap-dapper?
04:00 Riddell    also interesting (for pitti): I expect one app in kubuntu main to have a release
                 ported to qt 4 this week coming
04:00 mdz        that's a high-priority approved spec which didn't get an update last week either
04:00 pitti      yay library duplication :/
04:00 Riddell    mdz: it what I do when I'm not doing anything else
=== seb128_ [n=seb128@ANancy-151-1-4-142.w83-194.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:01 Kamion     Riddell: you probably want to start looking at
                 http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/bzr/espresso/ubuntu/
04:01 Riddell    mdz: most is done or in progress
04:01 mdz        Riddell: how much of it has been done so far?  it needs to be included in your
                 status updates
04:01 Kamion     (for kubuntu-express)
04:01 mdz        Riddell: please email an update to me and janew later today with details
04:01 seb128_    hum, disconnect
04:01 seb128_    anything after "<dholbach> http://videos.ubuntu.com/ubz/" ?
04:01 Riddell    mdz: ok
04:01 mdz        and find some time to chat with Kamion about kubuntu-express in more depth
04:02 Kamion     Riddell: (it'll be changing a lot, the user-setup stuff is much closer to how I
                 want the final shape of it to be than anything else is at the moment)
04:02 dholbach   seb128_: I'll paste in a query
04:02 mdz        ok, we're out of time
04:02 mdz        thanks for staying up, europeans
04:02 ogra_ibook heh
04:02 mdz        0800 UTC next week, right?
=== Mithrandir yawns
=== pitti crawls back into bed
04:03 pitti      thanks everybody
04:03 mdz        good night

</pre>
