{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=05&day=14&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mat 14th 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)
=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* micahg
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Julian Taylor (jtaylor) provided debdiffs for lucid-precise for wicd (LP: #979221) (LP: #992177)
** Julian Taylor (jtaylor) provided debdiffs for lucid-oneiric for gajim (LP: #992618) (LP: #992613)
 Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Review of any previous action items
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Weekly role: happy place
** post-UDS catch-up and review
** updates
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: community
** post-UDS catch-up and review
** blueprints, work items, etc
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** AppArmor SRU
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** thunderbird/apparmor regressions
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** upstream ecryptfs fixes
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** kernel fixes for quantal kernel wrt !AppArmor and LXC
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** There are a lot of merge opportunities for packages listed in http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/d2u/. Performing these updates is a great way to help Ubuntu and bolster your developer application. 

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-05-14-18.06.html
