{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
<pre>
[18:01] <pedro_> #startmeeting
[18:01] <LaserJock> I think it's especially nice to find out about blockers :-)
[18:01]  * pedro_ kicks the bot
[18:02] <heno_> I'll go first since I may have to run
[18:02] <davmor2> hello
[18:02] <pedro_> Welcome to the Ubuntu QA Meeting the Agenda for today is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
[18:02] <heno_> I was at a Canonical distro team leads sprint all last week
[18:03] <heno_> we discussed the usual admin stuff but also some Ubuntu QA stuff
[18:03] <stgraber> hey
[18:03] <heno_> There is broad agreement that we will ramp up the focus on quality in the releases to come
[18:03] <heno_> I can write more when I get the notes
[18:04] <LaserJock> that's always a good thing? :-)
[18:04] <LaserJock> s/?/!/
[18:04] <heno_> of course!
[18:04] <heno_> oh, not '?'
[18:04] <heno_> heh
[18:04]  * LaserJock plays "punctuation jumble" today
[18:04] <heno_> on monday I was at an LP team sprint as well
[18:05] <heno_> the numbers that we discussed for the LP bugs priorities were presented
[18:05] <heno_> it looks like they have a good process for taking that forward
[18:05] <davmor2> cool :)
[18:06] <heno_> they will decide on actual priorities this week
[18:06] <LaserJock> excellent
[18:06] <pedro_> yay
[18:06] <heno_> ok, that's it from me!
[18:06] <pedro_> thanks
[18:06] <pedro_> ok the next point i see is
[18:06] <pedro_> Ubuntu Developer Week preparations
[18:07] <pedro_> the Ubuntu Developer Week starts next week
[18:07] <heno_> That's just pointing out https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek
[18:07] <pedro_> and there's a few talks from the members of the team
[18:08] <pedro_> anyone wants to give a brief overview about their talk?
[18:08] <LaserJock> I was pleasantly surprised to see Ara scheduled
[18:08] <heno_> and it looks like there are no more open slots
[18:08] <pedro_> bdmurray, ara ?
[18:08] <LaserJock> go ara go! ;-)
[18:08] <ara> pedro_: ok, I'll go
[18:09] <pedro_> rock
[18:09] <ara> I will be presenting the automated testing library that we've been working on
[18:09] <ara> what is exactly, how to use it, etc.
[18:10] <ara> i will be completing the docuementation at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Automation/LDTP/HowToUseTestingLibrary
=== persia_ is now known as persia
[18:10] <ara> before the session, so people will be able to have some reading after it
[18:11] <ara> what I would like to achieve from the session is making people more involved in testing and more specifically in automated testing
[18:11] <ara> only some very basic python knowledge is required
[18:11] <LaserJock> ara: very nice
[18:12] <pedro_> nice! looking forward to it
[18:12] <pedro_> bdmurray: may you tell us a bit about the launchpad hacks session?
[18:12] <LaserJock> ara: so are you going to be able to go through how people can contribute test scripts?
[18:13] <ara> LaserJock: yes, how to contribute with new scripts that use the library; but not how to extend the library
[18:13] <ara> LaserJock: if I get people willing to contribute also to extend the library, it will be great
[18:14] <bdmurray> pedro_: I plan on talking about recent features added to bughelper / python-launchpad-bugs.  Additionally, I want to talk about all the scripts in the launchpad-gm-scripts project and how they might help you use launchpad.
[18:15] <LaserJock> next time we should get a QA Team overview session
[18:15] <pedro_> cool!
[18:15] <heno_> should we continue the round table?
[18:16] <bdmurray> If so there's one thing I wanted to mention...
[18:18] <bdmurray> I've written a script that checks needs-packaging bugs to see if they are already packged in debian or ubuntu and checks to see if there is a request to have them packaged in debian
[18:18] <bdmurray> I plan on running this on qa.ubuntu.com soon and announcing it
[18:19] <bdmurray> However, one way we can help is ensuring the needs-packaging bugs follow a specific format for the title
[18:19] <bdmurray> for example: [needs-packaging] softwarename ....
[18:19] <heno_> how does it find the package in the archive?
[18:19] <bdmurray> So if you happen to see any that don't follow that convention please modify the title.
[18:19] <intellectronica> bdmurray: why do you want to use the title?
[18:20] <bdmurray> heno_: rmadison
[18:20] <ara> bdmurray: one thing that is unclear from the documentation is that instead of "naming [needs-packaging]" the document reads "tagging [needs-packaging]"
[18:20] <intellectronica> bdmurray: rather than a tag, that is
[18:20] <bdmurray> intellectronica: so it is distinguishable in a list of bugs - both are done
[18:20] <bdmurray> ara: okay, I'll update the documentation
[18:21] <bdmurray> Ideally they'll be tagged needs-packaging and have that prepended to the title
[18:21] <LaserJock> hmm, but how reliable would the title be?
[18:22] <bdmurray> LaserJock: I've modified ~134 needs-packaging bugs which is >10%
[18:22] <bdmurray> So I think it has been pretty successful
[18:22] <LaserJock> bdmurray: you've modified the title of 134?
[18:23] <LaserJock> what I meant was that by definition we don't have a package name for needs-packaging bugs
[18:23] <bdmurray> LaserJock: no, I've linked to upstream bug watches, marked as duplicate or Fix Released 134 bugs
[18:23] <LaserJock> so how do you go from a bug title to finding if it's in the archive?
[18:23]  * heno_ is afk
[18:24] <bdmurray> I assume the 2nd word in the title is the name of the software needing packaging
[18:25] <bdmurray> And that's where help would be useful - ensuring the bug titles follow that convention
[18:25] <LaserJock> bdmurray: right but quite often that's not a great mapping to package name
[18:25] <LaserJock> but consistency is usually a good thing :-)
[18:26] <LaserJock> I'm just worried that if we take a scripted list we'll could have a significant amount of false positives
[18:26] <LaserJock> so then we'd be triaging anyway
[18:27] <davmor2> bdmurray: so bug title Intrepid: xapian doesn't work  and intrepid: bunnys have big ears is cool for you?
[18:28] <davmor2> where bunnys needs packaging sorry
[18:29] <bdmurray> davmor2: heh
[18:29] <hggdh> LaserJock, this is one reason why we would still need the tag -- titles may not work always
[18:30] <LaserJock> hggdh: that's the whole reason why I made the tag in the first place ;-)
[18:30] <hggdh> and this is another reason why we need more tags ;-)
[18:30] <bdmurray> and if a particular ubuntu bug has too many results just skip it or modify the title and it'll get processed in the next run of the script
[18:30] <davmor2> bdmurray: sorry talking at cross purposes missed the first bit just played catch up
[18:31] <LaserJock> bdmurray: ok, so what does your script output?
[18:31] <LaserJock> the bugs where the software exists in Debian/Ubuntu?
[18:31] <bdmurray> The output of rmadison or links and titles of debian bugs
[18:32] <LaserJock> hmm, that just seems so error prone
[18:34] <pedro_> Any other issues?
[18:35] <LaserJock> well, the Testing Day thing is still up in the air
[18:35] <LaserJock> it'd be nice to get something nailed down for that
[18:37] <pedro_> Yes, LaserJock can you send a reminder about it to the ubuntu-qa list ?
[18:37] <LaserJock> k
[18:37] <davmor2> also before I need to dash off the bugs I've come across whilst smoke testing I've collated here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/DailySmoke/bugs I won't be around next week so if someone can quickly blitz through them and see if there fixed early next week that would be great
[18:37] <pedro_> thanks you
[18:40] <pedro_> alright, thanks davmor2
[18:40] <pedro_> ok it seems we don't have anything else
[18:40] <intellectronica> just a quick one
[18:40] <pedro_> intellectronica: go ahead
[18:41] <intellectronica> has there been any progress on preparation for that bug status migration?
[18:41] <pedro_> intellectronica: i haven't had the time yet to prepare the wiki page, but ill need to do it soon
[18:42] <intellectronica> cool. let me know if you need any help
[18:42] <pedro_> yup , thanks
[18:42] <pedro_> ok , let's wrap then
[18:42] <pedro_> thanks everybody
[18:43] <intellectronica> thanks, pedro_
[18:43] <ara> thanks
[18:43] <bdmurray> thanks
[18:44] <sbeattie> thanks everyone
</pre>
