{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** hallyn to discuss machine type EOLing on ubuntu-server m-l
** everyone to email blueprint proposals to mailing list for discussion
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Discuss EOLing qemu machine types (and legacy roms) (hallyn, rharper)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

Vivid has just opened up, and now is the time to create blueprints in
anticipation of UDS, which will be Nov 12-14.  Please email blueprint
proposals to the ubuntu-server mailing list for discussion.

Juju 1.20 is hitting Trusty in an SRU soon.  It is recommended to
test your deployments and report results at bug 1386144.

Due to ODS being next week, next week's meeting is canceled.  The
next irc meeting will be in two weeks, on November 11.

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, November 11 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>

[16:01] <hallyn> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct 28 16:01:01 2014 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:01] <coreycb_> o/
[16:01] <hallyn> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <hallyn> none
[16:01] <hallyn> #topic Vervet development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Vervet development
[16:01] <matsubara> o/
[16:01] <hallyn> smoser: jamespage: wanna take this away?
[16:02] <smoser> shoudln't it be vivid ?
[16:02] <hallyn> uh, yeah
[16:02] <smoser> sure. anyway.
[16:02] <hallyn> hm, think i got that wrong ina  changelog this mroning
[16:02] <smoser> right now, we're clearly just starting with this vivid thing.
[16:02] <smoser> and hallyn is catching up
[16:02] <smoser> so development at this point would consist of merging from debian, and thinking of feature development / work for the cycle.
[16:03] <smoser> and getting blue prints together.
[16:03] <hallyn> any timeline for blueprint creation?
[16:04] <hallyn> smoser:
[16:04] <smoser> i dont know actually. i'm not that far along.
[16:04] <hallyn> ok
[16:04] <hallyn> thanks
[16:05] <hallyn> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:05] <caribou> nothing particular from our side
[16:05] <caribou> any question ?
[16:05] <hallyn> sounds like no, thanks caribou.  moving on,
[16:05] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:06] <hallyn> psivaa_: anything for the server meeting today?
[16:06] <hallyn> sounds like no, moving on,
[16:06] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:07] <smb> nothing from here today
[16:07] <hallyn> thanks smb
[16:07] <hallyn> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:07] <hallyn> we've got ODS next week of course,
[16:07] <hallyn> anything else?
[16:07] <rbasak> UOS is coming up too.
[16:07] <hallyn> good point.  and when is that?
[16:08] <hallyn> nov 12
[16:08] <hallyn> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1411/
[16:08]  * rbasak can't find the reminder email he just received
[16:08] <rbasak> Ah, thanks.
[16:08] <rbasak> It's be good to get any blueprint level items agreed before UOS, so we can make decisions during UOS itself instead of endless debate.
[16:08] <hallyn> ok i see that disucssing EOLing of machine type sis still on teh agenda, but as i recall it was decided that should be brought up on the m-l instead,
[16:09] <hallyn> #action hallyn to discuss machine type EOLing on ubuntu-server m-l
[16:09] <meetingology> ACTION: hallyn to discuss machine type EOLing on ubuntu-server m-l
[16:09] <smoser> thank you rbasak
[16:09] <hallyn> rbasak: should we do some semi-organized thing where we email proposed blueprints to the mailing list?
[16:09] <rbasak> That's a good idea.
[16:10] <hallyn> ok, let's codify that,
[16:10] <hallyn> #action everyone to email blueprint proposals to mailing list for discussion
[16:10] <meetingology> ACTION: everyone to email blueprint proposals to mailing list for discussion
[16:10] <hallyn> thanks, moving on,
[16:10] <hallyn> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:10] <rbasak> Juju 1.20 will be hitting Trusty in an SRU soon.
[16:11] <hallyn> compeltely backward-compat??
[16:11] <rbasak> This is a major version update, so I'd encourage everyone using Juju to test the upload when it arrives in trusty-proposed, and let us know of any regressions.
[16:11] <rbasak> Yes, it should be fully compatible.
[16:11] <hallyn> perhaps we should have an agenda item for next week to ask who's been testing?
[16:11] <rbasak> You might want to update your deployment, but that's up to you.
[16:11] <rbasak> I'm tracking testing in the bug - bug 1386144.
[16:11] <ubottu> bug 1386144 in juju-core (Ubuntu Trusty) "juju-core 1.20.11 is not packaged in Ubuntu" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1386144
[16:11] <hallyn> oh, but are we having a meeting next week, or will everyoen be gone for ods
[16:12] <hallyn> rbasak: sounds good
[16:12] <rbasak> Probably not worth having a meeting next week?
[16:12] <hallyn> yeah let's skip to the next week
[16:12] <hallyn> any other items for open discussion
[16:12] <rbasak> Next week a bunch of Canonicalers will be at a sprint
[16:12] <rbasak> Oh, no, that's the week after.
[16:12] <rbasak> Sorry.
[16:13] <hallyn> ok, so moving on,
[16:13] <hallyn> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:13] <hallyn> Should be in two weeks, Tuesday Nov 11 2014, 16:00 utc as usual,
[16:13] <hallyn> matsubara will be chairing
[16:13] <hallyn> thanks everyeone,
[16:13] <hallyn> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:13] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Oct 28 16:13:56 2014 UTC.
[16:13] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-10-28-16.01.moin.txt

</pre>
