{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Xenial Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Assigned bugwork (rbasak)
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
** 32-bit QA and Support Discussion (phillw, matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== Minutes ===
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 09 Feb at 16:01 &mdash; 16:34 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-02-09-16.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

==== Xenial Development ====
The discussion about "Xenial Development" started at 16:04.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-x-server-core 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/php5/+bug/1522422 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:17)
** ''ACTION:'' smoser fix bug 1543025
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:21.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)" started at 16:22.

** ''LINK:'' https://platform-qa-jenkins.ubuntu.com/view/smoke-default/ 
** ''LINK:'' https://platform-qa-jenkins.ubuntu.com/view/smoke-default/job/ubuntu-xenial-desktop-amd64-smoke-default/ 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:25.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:26.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:29.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:29.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:32.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* smoser
** smoser fix bug 1543025

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jgrimm (60)
* teward (12)
* smoser (10)
* arges (10)
* caribou (6)
* meetingology (4)
* ubottu (3)

=== Full Log ===

 16:01 <jgrimm> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb  9 16:01:25 2016 UTC.  The chair is jgrimm. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:01 <meetingology> 

 16:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:01 <jgrimm> who all is here?  hi smoser and teward!

 16:02 <jgrimm> lots of folks on vacation this week: matsubara, kickinz1, cpaelzer, rbasak .. so this may be light turn out

 16:02 <teward> if it's only us three, then heh.

 16:02 <arges> i'm here!

 16:02 <teward> ah, that explains why rbasak didn't reply to my email heh

 16:02 <teward> s/email/message previously/

 16:02 <jgrimm> arges, its almost like you are right behind me

 16:03 <jgrimm> all right, might as well begin

 16:03 <arges> haha

 16:03 <jgrimm> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 * jgrimm looks at last notes

 16:04 <jgrimm> no ACTION points. moving on.

 16:04 <jgrimm> #topic Xenial Development

 16:04 <teward> nginx 1.9.10-0ubuntu1 landed in Xenial on the 27th

 16:04 <teward> with a merge from Debian coming shortly after that to catch a few fixes that they did to packaging

 16:05 <teward> and there's a pending task for me for Xenial, getting today's nginx release in before FeatureFreeze

 16:05 <smoser> good job, teward

 16:05 <jgrimm> teward, great. thanks for dutifully staying on top of nginx.

 16:05 <teward> I'm waiting to hear from Debian how they want to approach dynamic modules now being available, first, before working on 1.9.11

 16:05 <teward> as that may influence the way that package works in the future

 16:05 <teward> </done>

 16:06 <smoser> for those playing along at home, Feature Freeze is Feb 18.

 16:06 <smoser> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:06 <jgrimm> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:06 <smoser> that is not this thursday but next.

 16:07 <jgrimm> indeed, timing quickly running out.

 16:08 <jgrimm> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-x-server-core

 16:09 <teward> jgrimm: and i missed your thank you.  You're welcome, it's my pleasure to keep on top of nginx :)

 16:09 <jgrimm> section 16.02 has lots of the 'big' things people are working on

 16:09 <jgrimm> one to may be make people more aware of is php 7

 16:10 <jgrimm> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/php5/+bug/1522422

 16:10 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1522422 in php5 (Ubuntu) "Update to php 7.0" [Wishlist,Triaged]

 16:11 <jgrimm> Its a long read.  Contact nacc if you are interested in helping test.

 16:12 <jgrimm> The plan of record is to fully transition to php7 for 16.04.  Aggressive goal, but looking pretty good so far.

 16:12 <jgrimm> Anyone have any questions about the blueprint?  I can try to relay what I know at least.

 16:12 <jgrimm> arges, how goes libvirt? I haven't caught up with you lately

 16:13 <arges> jgrimm: So smb has been working on libvirt

 16:13 <arges> and i'm going to review v5 today, its passing qa-regression-tests and seems to be almost there

 16:14 <jgrimm> \o/ great

 16:14 <jgrimm> thanks arges and smb

 16:15 <jgrimm> anything else from folks wrt Xenial dev?

 16:15 <arges> smoser: bug 1543025 would be useful to fix btw (if you haven't already seen it)

 16:15 <teward> just in regards to that blueprint - i moved one of the nginx tasks from 16.03 to 16.04, to match

 16:15 <ubottu> bug 1543025 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Xenial) "Wrong UTC zoneinfo in cloud-images" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1543025

 16:15 <arges> it was biting us doing the autopkgtests for libvirt

 16:15 <jgrimm> thanks teward

 16:15 <teward> s/to match/to match nginx upstream's release schedule for 1.10.x*

 16:15 <caribou> jgrimm: I'm on clamav : got a merge which builds

 16:15 <jgrimm> caribou, thanks. and thanks for helping review merge of ntpd

 16:15 <caribou> jgrimm: np

 16:16 <jgrimm> any one else?

 16:17 <smoser> arges, i'll get it fixed.

 16:17 <jgrimm> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:17 <arges> cool

 16:18 <jgrimm> #action smoser fix bug 1543025

 16:18 * meetingology smoser fix bug 1543025

 16:18 <ubottu> bug 1543025 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Xenial) "Wrong UTC zoneinfo in cloud-images" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1543025

 16:18 <jgrimm> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:19 <jgrimm> well, rbasak is out this week, but he did want to call out that we've been building up technical debt around bug triage and bug fixing

 16:20 <jgrimm> intentional on our part to focus on FF, but just a reminder that there's still lots of work on bugs that are building up as we focus on xenial

 16:20 <jgrimm> anyone else have bugs they want to talk about?

 16:20 <jgrimm> moving on

 16:20 <arges> bugs... what are those?

 16:21 <jgrimm> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:21 <jgrimm> ;)

 16:21 <jgrimm> caribou, anything for today?

 16:21 <caribou> just uploaded makedumpfile 1.5.9-4 to debian which should sync shortly

 16:21 <caribou> as said before, working on merges & a few other things around kdump-tools

 16:22 <caribou> that's it

 16:22 <jgrimm> thanks sir

 16:22 <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)

 16:22 <jgrimm> No matsubara today.

 16:23 <jgrimm> smoser, are the cdimages now passing smoketests reliably on amd64?

 16:23 * jgrimm looks

 16:23 <smoser> https://platform-qa-jenkins.ubuntu.com/view/smoke-default/

 16:23 <smoser> https://platform-qa-jenkins.ubuntu.com/view/smoke-default/job/ubuntu-xenial-desktop-amd64-smoke-default/

 16:24 <smoser> so, much better now.

 16:24 <smoser> and http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/daily/current/ is 20160209 builds..

 16:24 <jgrimm> \o/

 16:24 <smoser> yeah. horay. thanks to nuclearbob for his work there too

 16:25 <jgrimm> +1

 16:25 <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:26 <arges> nothing from kernel team

 16:26 <arges> ..

 16:26 <jgrimm> thanks arges

 16:26 <jgrimm> any questions for kernel team??

 16:26 <jgrimm> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:27 <jgrimm> anyone?

 16:27 <jgrimm> I didn't have chance to research this a bit as impromptu chair for today

 16:28 <jgrimm> i'm guessing there are some openstack summit dates coming up?

 16:29 <jgrimm> same for:

 16:29 <jgrimm> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:29 <jgrimm> and moving on

 16:29 <jgrimm> #topic Open Discussion

 16:32 <jgrimm> anything else?

 16:32 <jgrimm> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:33 <jgrimm> Next meeting will be 2016/02/16, same time

 16:34 <jgrimm> beisner is still at front of queue, but has a standing conflict. Will probably be someone else, thedac is next up after him

 16:34 <jgrimm> thanks everyone. its a wrap

 16:34 <caribou> jgrimm: thanks!

 16:34 <jgrimm> #endmeeting
