{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Timezone UTC+1

<pre>
[19:12] <asac> ok anyway lets get started ;) ...
[19:12] <asac> NCommander applied for team membership
[19:13] <asac> however, apparently he didnt made it here, even though he reaffirmed that he would participate
[19:13] <asac> his area of interest is helping to be more of a debian bridge ;) ... i guess
[19:14] <asac> he jumped the gun to help out on icedove ;), but from what i understood would be willing to do more.
[19:14] <fta> not sure what kind of bridge we could (re)build here.
[19:14] <asac> I dont know either. maybe he could also help communicating with debian maintainers
[19:14] <fta> maybe he should start to contribute, before applying
[19:14] <asac> trying to get patches out of them for instance
[19:15] <asac> yeah. he only did the icedove update here.
[19:16] <asac> gnomefreak: hi ;)
[19:16] <gnomefreak> hi
[19:16]  * gnomefreak trying to grab agenda
[19:16] <asac> gnomefreak: so we are currently discussing ncommanders application
[19:17] <asac> i think we are currently leaning towards asking for more contributions first ;)
[19:17] <asac> anyway, he didnt show up so the question is void
[19:17] <gnomefreak> works for me. if he can fix my network ill give him membership and 50 pounds of goldf
[19:17] <asac> lets push that back to next meeting ... there should be plenty of time to show that he wants to help out more than once
[19:18] <gnomefreak> ok we should ping him during the week about it
[19:18] <asac> i think he definitly is technically adapt enough
[19:18] <gnomefreak> push mine back as well
[19:18] <asac> gnomefreak: you have 50 pounds of gold? thats quite a lot at todays prices
[19:18] <asac> ok so thats done then i think
[19:18] <gnomefreak> no but i have 50 pounds of goldf ;)
[19:19] <asac> he
[19:19] <asac> ok lets review actions from last meeting then ;)
[19:19] <asac> i think they are there
[19:19] <asac> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Meetings/Minutes/2008-09-14
[19:20] <asac> 1st. Check for extensions and plugins that are not supported in Firefox 3, and remove them, if there are no updates for them
[19:20] <asac> i think that was done
[19:20] <asac> 2nd. Remove Firefox 2 from the archive
[19:20] <asac> is done too i think
[19:20] <gnomefreak> 3rd was done as well
[19:20] <asac> yeah
[19:20] <asac> that was "Add abrowser to all firefox rdepends and upload"
[19:21] <gnomefreak> and 4th will hit in +1?
[19:21] <asac> 4th. Try to get Firefox 3.1 alpha2 into the archive
[19:21] <fta> failed
[19:21] <asac> i am not sure when 3.1 will be out
[19:21] <asac> we certainly want it in asap
[19:21] <gnomefreak> its b1 now isnt it?
[19:21] <asac> but for a while it probably should stay in universe not being the default
[19:21] <fta> yes
[19:21] <asac> we can then decide later in cycle
[19:22] <asac> whether this is close enough to final and whether there are enough extensions compatible
[19:22] <gnomefreak> work on it for universe in next dev cycle
[19:22] <asac> but i would really prevent the pain we went through when releasing ffox 3 as b5
[19:22] <asac> gnomefreak: i think we can immediately upload it to universe once the doors open
[19:22] <gnomefreak> asac: its firefox there are always gonna be issues for people
[19:22] <asac> ok so ltest carry that action forward with s/intrepid/jaunty/
[19:22] <fta> asac, b1 or a snapshot ?
[19:22] <asac> fta: milestones
[19:23] <fta> ok
[19:23] <asac> fta: we should explicitly disable the official branding imo
[19:23] <fta> i ship snapshots as shiretoko now
[19:23] <asac> fta: even if mozilla ships them with official ... because we cannot really guarantee security support in case it doesnt go to main and thats one of the reasons
[19:23] <gnomefreak> replace Shiretoko with what?
[19:23] <asac> fta: yeah. just in case they decide to switch on official branding in b3 or something and we ship that in universe
[19:24] <asac> gnomefreak: the logo is ok
[19:24] <asac> we can just use the unofficial branding i think
[19:24] <asac> (e.g.the milestone branding)
[19:24] <asac> fta: is that ok?
[19:24] <asac> similar we should fix the .desktop file et al
[19:24] <asac> but thats clear i guess
[19:24] <fta> it's blue planet, not the bomb, nor the fox
[19:24] <asac> fta: yeah thats the "milestone branding" i think
[19:24] <fta> yes
[19:24] <asac> should be ok
[19:24] <gnomefreak> blue planet i thought was minefield
[19:25] <asac> [ACTION] fta to bring up ffox 3.1 milestones when jaunty opens
[19:25] <fta> ok
[19:25] <asac> fta: we could provide backports in -hardy-backports as well if you want. but personally i hope that we can tap MOTU community for doing those backports
[19:26] <fta> me too
[19:26] <asac> fta: we could maintain the backport branches and leave the administrative things of uploading to MOTU
[19:26] <asac> fta: i think you build for hardy anyway in your ppa right? so the backports are most likely available
[19:26] <asac> ok
[19:26] <asac> 5th. Write down how to get items into the monthly reports and send that to mailing list/wiki
[19:26] <asac> -> failed miserably
[19:26] <gnomefreak> once oked archive admins build and push
[19:26] <asac> it was me underestimating release work and pain
[19:27] <asac> ok i carry that action forward
[19:27] <asac> [ACTION] asac, to Write down how to get items into the monthly reports and send that to mailing list/wiki
[19:27] <asac> 6th. File a bug about removing libflashssupport from ia32-libs
[19:27] <asac>  -> done
[19:27] <gnomefreak> its not removed
[19:27] <gnomefreak> afaik
[19:28] <asac> 7th. Get mozilla-devscripts in Debian
[19:28] <gnomefreak> maybe from ia32-* but it should be removed from archive all together
[19:28] <asac> -> interestingly mike from debian commented on this and said that most features are not wanted for debian
[19:28] <asac> i wouldnt have expected anything different, but we should maybe review how we can make it more useful
[19:28] <fta> asac, they said parts of it was fine, but which parts?
[19:28] <gnomefreak> why not?
[19:28] <asac> gnomefreak: its also removed completeyl
[19:29] <gnomefreak> ah i see
[19:29] <asac> i think he referred to the lp- xpi export as being useless
[19:29] <asac> the extension packaging xpi.mk is probably considered useful
[19:29] <asac> then the orig stuff might be too
[19:29] <gnomefreak> well since they dont use Lp i would think so
[19:29] <asac> but i think debian folks would like to maintain the hooks in the package rules files instead of updating mozclient for lets say iceweasel
[19:30] <asac> so once thats possible (??) we could suggests them to take a look
[19:30] <fta> it is possible now, ~ 0.11
[19:30] <asac> fta: could we migrate packages to use that? i mean, shouldnt that be the default modus-of-operation?
[19:30] <fta> i'm already using it that way in xul-explorer and instantbird
[19:31] <asac> is there anthing that would hinder us to use that in firefox/xulrunner?
[19:31] <asac> or tbird?
[19:31] <fta> nothing is preventing that
[19:31] <asac> fta: ok lets ask different: why don't we do it? what do we win from shipping those hooks in the mozclient instead of in the packages?
[19:32] <asac> ( i dont suggest that we should migrate it ... just want to understand the pros and cons)
[19:32] <fta> just that in the past, it was not possible, now it is
[19:32] <fta> otherwise, it's the same
[19:33] <asac> fta: ok. we should look at how "comprehensive" that is usable and if we can polish the API a bit to make it more attractive for debian
[19:33] <asac> otherwise should be fine i think
[19:33] <asac> thanks
[19:33] <fta> it may be even better as we could have different confs for a given package, one per branch
[19:34] <asac> yeah. it definitly helps
[19:34] <asac> especially now that we do branding stuff in the orig generation
[19:34] <asac> e.g. otherwise we cannot easily rename the branding branch from awesome branding now in jaunty
[19:34] <asac> because the intrepid package needs the other ;)
[19:34] <asac> ok cool. then lets
[19:34] <fta> yes
[19:35] <asac> [ACTION] review packages and how we can make mozclient confs in the packaging itself
[19:35] <asac> ok i think thats for the review of action items ;)
[19:35] <asac> gnomefreak: your turn :)
[19:35] <gnomefreak> my turn?
[19:35] <asac> [TOPIC] " Any ideas for Jaunty eg: Firefox-3.1 added to repos along with 3.0
[19:35] <asac> 	
[19:35] <gnomefreak> sorry hitting self
[19:35] <asac> gnomefreak: ^^
[19:35] <asac> gnomefreak: your agenda item ;)
[19:35] <gnomefreak> we cant do anything with that yet
[19:36] <fta> i have a bunch of packages waiting
[19:36] <fta> fennec firefox-3.1/firefox-3.1-qt flock instantbird seamonkey-2.0 songbird thunderbird-3.0 xul-explorer xulrunner-1.9.1/xulrunner-1.9.1-qt
[19:36] <gnomefreak> i have extensions waiting and one to fix
[19:36] <asac> fta: we should really rename flock
[19:36] <fta> agreed, flock -> out
[19:36] <gnomefreak> i like flock :(
[19:36] <asac> i am scared by their tradmark policy
[19:36] <gnomefreak> flock in free
[19:36] <asac> can be shipped in multiverse ... if at all
[19:36] <gnomefreak> sortof like sunbird
[19:37] <asac> but usually folks dont liek to put work in multiverse work ;)
[19:37] <asac> ok so:
[19:37] <gnomefreak> why cant we whip it in universe?
[19:37] <gnomefreak> s/whip/ship
[19:37] <asac> gnomefreak: because trademark policy sucks
[19:37] <fta> i'm no longer interested to work on it either, it's not free in my own terms
[19:37] <asac> we have to take care that nobody touches the package except those that talk to flock devs and stuff
[19:38] <asac> fta: it could be ice* branded ;)
[19:38] <asac> (not that i am encouraging that kind of move to resolve such thins)
[19:38] <gnomefreak> we should really use something other than ice
[19:38] <asac> but i expect that nobody would do that buntil its much more popular
[19:38] <asac> ok so mozillateam jaunty roadmap has a bunch of
[19:39] <asac> NEWPACKAGES: fennec firefox-3.1/-qt, instantbird, seamonkey-2.0 songbird, thunderbird-3.0 xul-explorer, xulrunner-1.9.1
[19:39] <fta> asac, maybe (ice*). we could ask jcastro's help to be a mediator
[19:39] <asac> i also think we have to redo enigmail
[19:39] <asac> that will kill us at some point ;)
[19:39] <asac> fta: for flock? maybe
[19:40] <fta> yep, flock
[19:40] <gnomefreak> enigmail has to be fixed if we ship tbird-3.0* in any archive
[19:40] <asac> fta: we could ask ncommandor to maintain a ice-fork in debian for now and we sync from there ;)
[19:40] <asac> ice-lock ;)
[19:40] <asac> gnomefreak: yeah. enigmail needs to be updated
[19:40] <fta> not sure about songbird, there's an eula and now the license in bugzilla for patches
[19:41] <Volans-> Hi all, just arrived to home
[19:41] <gnomefreak> hi Volans-
[19:41] <asac> i Volans- !
[19:41] <asac> fta: ok so
[19:41] <fta> hi Volans-
[19:41] <asac> [ACTION] decide on the fate of songbird in ubuntu
[19:41] <fta> ok
[19:42] <fta> they are close to 1.0 now
[19:42] <gnomefreak> do we really want to use ice*?
[19:42] <gnomefreak> i would rather ship songbird than another browser
[19:42] <asac> gnomefreak: thats just an example. if we maintain stuff in debian through ncommander that might make sense. but if we go ubuntu alone we shouldnt use that
[19:42] <fta> gnomefreak, not for songbird, but for flock, maybe
[19:43] <asac> so anything else important in jaunty?
[19:43] <asac> personally i think we should aggressively forward patches
[19:43] <asac> and also more aggressively forward bug
[19:43] <asac> s
[19:43] <fta> to where?
[19:43] <asac> [reed] asked us to do that multiple times i think .... but well.
[19:44] <asac> fta: to bugzilla ,)
[19:44] <fta> to moz, i agree
[19:44] <fta> most of the patches pending are yours
[19:45] <asac> true
[19:45] <asac> gnomefreak: would you be willing to subscribe to the bugs that i forward and remind me to follow up there when there are questions?
[19:45] <asac> :)
[19:46] <gnomefreak> yeah i should already be subscribed arnt i?
[19:46] <asac> gnomefreak: in bugzilla?
[19:46] <gnomefreak> on no im not there
[19:46] <asac> gnomefreak: do you have an account there?
[19:46] <gnomefreak> asac: can you work up a list?
[19:46] <gnomefreak> asac: yes
[19:46] <asac> gnomefreak: i think you should be able to watch me there
[19:47] <asac> in preferences ... you could then follow conversations that i am involved in and such ;)
[19:47] <asac> gnomefreak: ok cool
[19:47] <gnomefreak> ill look
[19:47] <asac> [ACTION] asac to forward every patch that isnt really ubuntu specific
[19:47] <asac> [ACTION] asac to talk with bdmurray about forwarding ubuntu bugs again
[19:48] <fta> what should we do about the qt port in 3.1?
[19:48] <fta> i proposed something weeks ago in the wiki
[19:48] <asac> fta: does it work?
[19:49] <fta> it did, but i'm not a kde user, so i lost track
[19:49] <asac> fta: where is taht wiki thing?
[19:49] <fta> i was talking about convergence in one package
[19:49] <asac> Volans-: still there? next item would be about extension sync stuff ;) (just when you are about to bail out  because of boredom ;))
[19:49] <fta> asac, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/QT
[19:50] <Volans-> I'm there and sorry for being inactive in the last weeks, I have started a now job and unfortunately I'm really busy
[19:50] <Volans-> (and in the last 2 days I'm trying to reboot my laptop after the intrepid upgrade, with the new kernel it wan't boot ;))
[19:50] <asac> Volans-: no problem :) i the meeting item isjust  about reviewing state ;
[19:51]  * gnomefreak broke all kinds of crap testing update-mamager
[19:51] <gnomefreak> im not seeing a way to follow you
[19:51] <asac> fta: why are the icons and stuff in -gtk?
[19:51] <asac> don't we need a -common ... or -chrome package?
[19:52] <asac> and why does gtk need a filepicker, but qt not?
[19:52] <asac> does gtk actually need that still?
[19:52] <fta> maybe a bug upstream
[19:52] <gnomefreak> ill be back in a bit
[19:53] <asac> fta: ok
[19:53] <fta> asac, it sure needs more work. it was just a one time experiment
[19:54] <asac> fta: i think thats a reasonable approach. only thing i dont see is: why do we need two firefox packages?
[19:54] <asac> imo one should work just fine
[19:54] <asac> otherwise we need to file bugs upstream for sure
[19:54] <fta> asac, maybe.. but depends need tweaks then
[19:54] <asac> fta: do you have a xul branch that builds those packages somewhere?
[19:54] <asac> fta: thats ok
[19:55] <fta> i do have branches somewhere, if not on lp
[19:55] <asac> fta: even though it most likely would just depend on xulrunner-1.9.1 ...
[19:56] <fta> configure is evil and wants everything in ff, even with lib-xulsdk
[19:56] <asac> [ACTION] get qt/gtk split done on experimental 1.9.1 branches
[19:56] <asac> [ACTION] investigate how firefox can be built in gtk/qt independent fashion
[19:57] <asac> anything else for initial jaunty discussion?
[19:57] <asac> ok lets move on
[19:57] <fta> the <video> tag
[19:58] <asac> ok rewind
[19:58] <asac> fta: whats up with video tag=?
[19:58] <asac> isn't that officially supported upstrewam? if thats the case i dont see how we can not support it ;)
[19:58] <fta> i feel worried about even more pulseaudio troubles
[19:58] <fta> yes, it is on by default upstream
[19:58] <asac> fta: isnt pulseaudio ok as long as alsa isnt used to speak to it?
[19:59] <fta> for me, it comes and goes
[19:59] <fta> it's broken at the moment, while upstream said pulseaudio is now supported
[20:00] <asac> ok. anyway. i think our goal should be to have that enabled. if its possible to put that in a separate component we
[20:00] <asac> might be able to make a separate package out of it, which users can uninstall if they experience too much troubles
[20:01] <asac> ok next topic :)
[20:01] <asac> [TOPIC] Review of Auto Extension Scripts
[20:01] <asac> Volans-: ^^ :)
[20:01] <Volans-> asac:  :)
[20:01] <asac> Volans-: basically why i am so happy that you are here is:
[20:01] <asac> you can tell us what currently works and what not ... we can then see what the next steps are
[20:01] <asac> whether you can do them isnt that important then i hope
[20:01] <asac> Volans-: could you post the links of the current scripts?
[20:02] <fta> a page in the wiki would be nice
[20:02] <asac> yeah. in worst case these meeting minutes would have the minimum
[20:02] <fta> i have lost track of this :(
[20:02] <asac> lets put the bar low for now ;)
[20:02] <Volans-> sure, let me find it out, I'm not on my laptop as I have say above
[20:02] <asac> fta: right. thats why i want to look now so we are all on top again ;)
[20:03] <asac> gnomefreak: you too ;)
[20:03] <Volans-> https://code.launchpad.net/~volans/firefox-extensions/med-auto-scripts
[20:03] <Volans-> here I have uploaded some scripts, but maybe in my laptop there is some more newer versione not pushed yet
[20:03] <asac> ok so if i remember correctly Volans- implemented a bunch of low level operations
[20:03] <asac> that we could orchestrate in a higher level script (like a cron script)
[20:04] <Volans-> exacltly asac , if you want I can explain a little them
[20:04] <asac> yes ... maybe lets go script by script ;)
[20:04] <asac> i think everything starts with mirror-xpi.sh
[20:05] <Volans-> sure! all of it have a comment at the begin that explain a little what are the parameter and what the script do
[20:05] <Volans-> the only one that is not "low level" is the master-example.sh
[20:06] <asac> whats that supposed to do?
[20:06] <Volans-> that is the script I have used to test all the other script in sequence
[20:06] <asac> i think nthats the only script i havent heard of before ,)
[20:06] <asac> ok is that the order those are supposed to run?
[20:06] <asac> or just some random test order?
[20:06] <Volans-> the logical order
[20:06] <Volans-> a sort of a simple higher level script
[20:07] <Volans-> just for testing purposes at the moment
[20:07] <asac> it uses a ext.list file
[20:07] <asac> is there an example file for that?
[20:07] <asac> e.g AMO_BRANCHES_FILE="ext.list"
[20:08] <Volans-> is explained in the initial comment:
[20:08] <Volans-> # The AMO_BRANCHES_FILE should contain a list of addons to be 16
[20:08] <Volans-> # processed and must have this syntax:
[20:08] <Volans-> # BRANCH_NAME AMO_ID [SOURCE_PACKAGE_NAME]
[20:08] <asac> ok
[20:09] <asac> so i see it goes and then mirrors all xpis from the ftp i guess
[20:09] <Volans-> is just a list
[20:09]  * gnomefreak came back at wrong time
[20:09] <asac> then it branches the branches and gets the rdf version
[20:09] <asac> from the current branch
[20:09] <asac> and afterthat gets a sorted list of extensions that need to be imported now
[20:09] <asac> right?
[20:09] <Volans-> right
[20:10] <Volans-> there was the question of how to get the rdf version
[20:10] <asac> ok ... from there it should be quite simple. for each version use med-xpi-unpack to unpack it in the .usptream branch
[20:10] <asac> and commit that
[20:10] <asac> with the version gathered from the unpackaged xpi using the et-install-rdf-version.sh
[20:10] <asac> script
[20:12] <Volans-> asac: for a more in-depth description see my 2 emails (Sun, Sep 21, 2008 at 1:13 AM and  Wed, Sep 24, 2008 at 12:42 AM)
[20:12] <asac> Volans-: did those go to mailing list too?
[20:12] <gnomefreak> to/from where?
[20:12] <gnomefreak> i never saw them
[20:13] <fta> use the wiki
[20:13] <Volans-> no, there was directly to you because in that days I have talked to you in channell and sent to you some test results
[20:13] <asac> fta: well wiki alone doesnt attract attention
[20:13] <asac> Volans-: ah ok
[20:13] <Volans-> that where only preliminary in my mind :)
[20:13] <asac> Volans-: VERSION=`bash get-install-rdf-version.sh ${BRANCHES_DIR}/${AMO_ID}/${AMO_BRANCHES[${AMO_ID}]}.ubuntu 2>> ${LOG_FILE}`
[20:13] <asac> shouldnt that check the version on the .upstream branch?
[20:13] <asac> and not .ubuntu?
[20:14] <asac> i mean we only want versions that are higher than what is alread imported in .upstream i guess
[20:14] <Volans-> sure, was for testing purposes only because most of the extension doesn't have the .ubuntu braches
[20:14] <asac> Volans-: you mean .upstream branch ;)
[20:15] <Volans-> sorry, .upstream
[20:15] <asac> ok right
[20:15] <Volans-> but many have the .ubuntu
[20:15] <asac> someone should take care that we have .upstream for all extensions that use med-xpi format
[20:15] <Volans-> exactly!
[20:15] <asac> [ACTION] ensure that all extensions have upstreawm branch
[20:16] <asac> [ACTION] asac or Volans to finish master example script to actually import things to .upstream branches
[20:16] <gnomefreak> all extensions should have both anyway
[20:16] <asac> gnomefreak: yeah. but those that have med-xpi format can be supported by the auto importer for now
[20:16] <asac> gnomefreak: so they are more important in this regards
[20:16] <gnomefreak> :(
[20:16] <asac> gnomefreak: :( ?
[20:16] <gnomefreak> that means all but firgpg in my batch
[20:17] <asac> gnomefreak: haha ... well. thats good
[20:17] <asac> everything that can be auto imported will have less work in the future
[20:17] <asac> ok
[20:17] <gnomefreak> not really since firegpg is the biggest thorjn
[20:17] <gnomefreak> works for me lets se how it plays out
[20:17] <asac> i think thats it for that topic
[20:17] <asac> thanks to Volans- for his work so far ;)
[20:18] <Volans-> I want just to explain a point in the get-new-imports.sh
[20:18] <gnomefreak> Volans-: thanks ;)
[20:18] <Volans-> for the newer version in the ftp xpi
[20:18] <asac> Volans-: sure. go ahead
[20:18] <Volans-> because there are so many versioning syntax I have tried some solution and the best and quick one that I have choosed is
[20:19] <asac> Volans-: couldnt we write a proper version comparison?
[20:19] <asac> i mean the exact implementation for the upstream version scheme?
[20:19] <Volans-> i mean for the extension version
[20:19] <Volans-> every extension use a different schema
[20:19] <Volans-> as I have see in the tests
[20:19] <asac> Volans-: well ... but the order is still defined
[20:19] <asac> Volans-: everything uses the mozilla versioning scheme
[20:20] <asac> if they dont thats a big bug
[20:20] <Volans-> sure, but not always numerical or alphabetical order ;9
[20:20] <asac> Volans-: right. thats why i wondered if we couldnt come up with a real compare function for that
[20:20] <Volans-> some have changed in the time the versioning or splitted the TB and FF version or so
[20:20] <asac> most likely there is perl snippet somewhere or a cpp snippet ;)
[20:21] <asac> Volans-: ok. so what did you do about it for now?
[20:21] <Volans-> asac: you have talked about to use the FF versioning tool that recognize the extensions in the addon manager
[20:21] <Volans-> at the moment I bring the actual ubuntu .ubuntu (.upstream in future) version
[20:21] <Volans-> search in the mirrored fto
[20:21] <Volans-> *ftp
[20:22] <Volans-> for the same version, search for the datetime of the last modified file
[20:22] <asac> i really find that scary
[20:22] <Volans-> and compare it in the other xpi
[20:22] <asac> i mean when the ftp server chokes everything will fall apart
[20:22] <asac> e.g. if someone touches recursively or just uses cp -r next time things get reorganized
[20:22] <Volans-> no I search inside the XPI and not the datetime of the xpi
[20:22] <asac> hmm
[20:23] <asac> interesting approach
[20:23] <Volans-> LAST_MODIFIED=`zipinfo -T ${XPI_FILE} | sort -nr -k 7 | head -n 1 | sed s/' \+'/' '/g | cut -d " " -f7 | sed s/'\.'/''/`
[20:23] <Volans-> this is the line
[20:23] <asac> ok i think we can start that way for now
[20:23] <asac> but we should definitly try to keep this done in an abstraction layer
[20:23] <Volans-> line 116 of get-new-imports.sh
[20:23] <Volans-> sure!
[20:23] <asac> Volans-: e.g. we should put that code in a compare_xpi_version that spits out -1 0 1
[20:23] <asac> or something
[20:24] <asac> is that done in a function?
[20:24] <asac> that should be good enough
[20:24] <Volans-> with my tests this approach remove some false positive that I have found with other approcheas
[20:24] <Volans-> but surely a real comparison function should be better ;)
[20:24] <asac> Volans-: hmm. i think we should really move that somehow in a more higher level function called compare_xpi_trees
[20:24] <asac> to allow us to change that in future wihtout much refactoring
[20:25] <asac> [ACTION] refactor get-new-imports to contain a better abstraction for comparing xpi tree versions
[20:25]  * gnomefreak goes for smoke
[20:26] <asac> ok together with the other actions this should be a good next step ;)
[20:26] <asac> anyone still awake?
[20:26] <asac> fta: ?
[20:26] <Volans-> actual the get-new-imports search in the mirrored directory for all the xpi with a version newer than the actual ubuntu one and return the filename of the newer ones iirc
[20:26] <asac> ;)
[20:27] <fta> er..
[20:27] <asac> Volans-: yeah. but if we make an abstract function compare_xpi_tree_version <xpi-tree1> <xpi-tree2> ... that should work, shhouldnt it?
[20:27] <Volans-> what do you mean with xpi-tree?
[20:27] <asac> Volans-: well either .xpi or unpackaged xpi
[20:28] <Volans-> ok
[20:28] <Volans-> atm I never extract all the xpi, I use zipgrep and zipinfo
[20:28] <asac> fta: we can move the last agenda item to #ubuntu-mozillatem at later time i guess ("security support for universe stuff")
[20:29] <fta> ok
[20:29] <Volans-> and check for both syntax version: <em:version>.*</em:version> AND em:version=\".*\"
[20:29] <asac> Volans-: well, whatever
[20:29] <asac> sure
[20:30] <asac> Volans-: but since you dont use version here, you need more than the version for that function ;)
[20:30] <fta> Volans-, you'd be surprised, it's often multiline, or using variables, or include files, etc..
[20:31] <Volans-> multine I know when is declared also in the language blocks in the rdf files... for the inclusion, no I never see that case :)
[20:32] <Volans-> *multiline
[20:32] <fta> asac, 1h30 already
[20:32] <asac> yeh
[20:32] <asac> ok
[20:32] <asac> so any other business?
[20:33] <fta> i'm done
[20:33] <Volans-> not for me
[20:33] <asac> ok then lets finish ;)
[20:33] <asac> was long enough for the short agenda ;)
[20:34] <fta> yeah
[20:34]  * gnomefreak goes to figure out what is going wrong
[20:35] <asac> thanks!
</pre>
----
CategoryMozillaTeam
