{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week

* Saucy Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Meeting Actions ===

* smoser look at / assign bug 1206872 and bug 1156932 

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 17 Sep at 16:02 &mdash; 16:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-09-17-16.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:04.

** everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week
*** This has now brought to everyone's attention.

==== Saucy Development ====
The discussion about "Saucy Development" started at 16:05.

** Ubuntu bug 1221906 in OpenStack Dashboard (Horizon) "Havana-3 Dependency missing: python-troveclient" [Undecided,In progress]
*** Fixed; Adam will update the bug.
** Ubuntu bug 1208455 in linux (Ubuntu Saucy) "general protection fault running apt-get inside double nested kvm VM" [High,In progress]
*** Assigned to smb in his absence.
** Ubuntu bug 1213915 in ceph (Ubuntu Saucy) "Please demote ceph-mds and ceph-fs-common to universe" [High,New]
*** smoser will look/assign someone.
** Ubuntu bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba fails to unpack (behavior change in patch) and ftbfs on aarch64" [High,Incomplete]
*** doko suggests waiting until the buildds pick it up.
** Ubuntu bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [High,Confirmed]
*** smoser will look/assign someone.
** Ubuntu bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [High,Confirmed]
*** zul reports that this is still pending.
** Ubuntu bug 1031680 in nagios-plugins (Ubuntu Raring) "check_apt always report 0 critical updates" [High,Triaged]
*** rbasak reports that this is still pending. He has been treating it as low priority for Saucy - it's non-trivial. Though it affects Ubuntu only, upstream don't have a fix either.
*** Dropped Saucy target, as we don't think it's realistic/high end priority. This still needs fixing.
** doko raised bug 1162139 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Saucy) "mysql-5.5 still built using GCC-4.4, should be built with the default GCC" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1162139
*** rbasak had thought Debian "pending" tag meant a fix would be uploaded soon, but it has been delayed. He assigned this bug to himself.

** ''ACTION:'' smoser look at / assign bug 1206872 and bug 1156932

==== Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html ====
The discussion about "Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html" started at 16:20.

** smoser reminded everyone to keep their blueprints up-to-date.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:21.

** Nothing to announce.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:22.

** psivaa reported that bug 1207675 in Ubuntu Test Cases "test_lxc_api test fails during container creation " [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1207675 is impacting lxc smoke tests, and that hallyn had an MP to possibly fix but isn't sure of the status. hallyn was absent so this was deferred.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)" started at 16:23.

** smb was absent.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)" started at 16:24.

** rbasak reported that he's currently waiting on an FFe for bug 1194632 in cpu-checker (Ubuntu) "[FFe] kvm-ok Support for ARM Architecture is Missing" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1194632 and had nothing else to report.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:25.

** doko advised that we watch http://people.ubuntuwire.org/~wgrant/rebuild-ftbfs-test/test-rebuild-20130917-saucy.html which just started today.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:26.

=== Action items ===

* smoser look at / assign bug 1206872 and bug 1156932

=== Action items, by person ===

* smoser
** smoser look at / assign bug 1206872 and bug 1156932

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rbasak (53)
* ubottu (17)
* doko (8)
* smoser (7)
* psivaa (6)
* meetingology (4)
* adam_g (2)
* zul (2)
* roaksoax (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:02 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep 17 16:02:46 2013 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology> 

 16:02 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:04 <zul> hilo

 16:04 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:04 <rbasak> * everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week

 16:04 <rbasak> I hope everyone's been busy. I'll drop this from the agenda for next week unless anyone disagrees?

 16:05 <rbasak> #topic Saucy Development

 16:05 <rbasak> Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:06 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/horizon/+bug/1221906

 16:06 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1221906 in OpenStack Dashboard (Horizon) "Havana-3 Dependency missing: python-troveclient" [Undecided,In progress]

 16:06 <adam_g> thats fixed

 16:06 <adam_g> ill update

 16:06 <rbasak> Thanks!

 16:06 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1208455

 16:06 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1208455 in linux (Ubuntu Saucy) "general protection fault running apt-get inside double nested kvm VM" [High,In progress]

 16:07 <rbasak> Is smb working on this? I don't see any other relevant person.

 16:07 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ceph/+bug/1213915

 16:07 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1213915 in ceph (Ubuntu Saucy) "Please demote ceph-mds and ceph-fs-common to universe" [High,New]

 16:07 <rbasak> Any volunteers to deal with demoting these packages?

 16:08 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/1206872

 16:08 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba fails to unpack (behavior change in patch) and ftbfs on aarch64" [High,Incomplete]

 16:08 <rbasak> doko: is there any further action needed here?

 16:08 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/neutron/+bug/1156932

 16:08 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [High,Confirmed]

 16:09 <doko> rbasak, ?

 16:09 <rbasak> doko: in bug 1206872 - it's marked Incomplete now

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba fails to unpack (behavior change in patch) and ftbfs on aarch64" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1206872

 16:09 <rbasak> Any volunteers for https://bugs.launchpad.net/neutron/+bug/1156932 ?

 16:09 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [High,Confirmed]

 16:09 <rbasak> zul: how's https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nova/+bug/1199791 going?

 16:09 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1199791 in nova (Ubuntu Saucy) "nova-compute-xcp misses nova-compute.conf" [High,Triaged]

 16:09 <zul> still not fixed

 16:10 <doko> rbasak, let's wait until the buildds pick it up

 16:10 <doko> rbasak, any news about mysql-5.5?

 16:11 <rbasak> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nagios-plugins/+bug/1031680 is still here. I've been treating it as low priority for Saucy - it's non-trivial. Though it affects Ubuntu only, upstream don't have a fix either.

 16:11 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1031680 in nagios-plugins (Ubuntu Raring) "check_apt always report 0 critical updates" [High,Triaged]

 16:11 <rbasak> (though there is a workaround avialable)

 16:11 <rbasak> Can we drop this from tracking in Saucy maybe?

 16:12 <rbasak> doko: I noticed you commented on bug 1162139 earlier. I had thought "pending" meant that Clint would upload to Debian soon.

 16:12 <ubottu> bug 1162139 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Saucy) "mysql-5.5 still built using GCC-4.4, should be built with the default GCC" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1162139

 16:13 <rbasak> I'll take a look again.

 16:13 * rbasak assigns himself

 16:13 <doko> rbasak, just asking because gcc-4.4 ftbfs now, and I don't have any interest to fix that

 16:13 <doko> thanks

 16:13 <doko> which meeting am I hijacking here?

 16:13 <rbasak> doko: server team. You're in the right place for that bug :)

 16:14 <doko> ohh, good =)

 16:14 <doko> and maybe watch http://people.ubuntuwire.org/~wgrant/rebuild-ftbfs-test/test-rebuild-20130917-saucy.html ... just started today

 16:15 <rbasak> I'll assign smb to https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1208455 and see if he objects

 16:16 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1208455 in linux (Ubuntu Saucy) "general protection fault running apt-get inside double nested kvm VM" [High,In progress]

 16:17 <rbasak> smoser: can you assign people to bug 1206872 and bug 1156932 please?

 16:17 <ubottu> bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba fails to unpack (behavior change in patch) and ftbfs on aarch64" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1206872

 16:17 <ubottu> bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1156932

 16:17 <smoser> rbasak, i'll look at them.

 16:17 <rbasak> Thanks!

 16:18 <smoser> #action smoser look at / assign bug 1206872 and bug 1156932

 16:18 * meetingology smoser look at / assign bug 1206872 and bug 1156932

 16:18 <rbasak> I'll drop the saucy target for bug 1031680

 16:18 <ubottu> bug 1031680 in nagios-plugins (Ubuntu Raring) "check_apt always report 0 critical updates" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1031680

 16:19 <rbasak> smoser: also https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ceph/+bug/1213915

 16:19 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1213915 in ceph (Ubuntu Saucy) "Please demote ceph-mds and ceph-fs-common to universe" [High,New]

 16:20 <rbasak> I think that's what I meant before actually, sorry.

 16:20 <rbasak> #topic Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html

 16:20 <rbasak> smoser: what would you like to me to do with the blueprints?

 16:21 <smoser> just a reminder...

 16:21 <smoser> please keep blueprints up to date.

 16:21 <smoser> i'm looking at you, smoser.

 16:21 <rbasak> :)

 16:21 <smoser> we can go one.

 16:21 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:21 <smoser> s/one/on/

 16:21 <rbasak> Anything coming up?

 16:22 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:22 <rbasak> psivaa: hello!

 16:22 <psivaa> Nothing much, except bug #1207675 is imapacting lxc smoke tests,

 16:22 <ubottu> bug 1207675 in Ubuntu Test Cases "test_lxc_api test fails during container creation " [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1207675

 16:22 <psivaa> hallyn was an MP to possibly fix, not sure if that MP has landed

 16:22 <psivaa> *expecting

 16:23 <psivaa> probably lxc 1.0-alpha

 16:23 <psivaa> that's all :)

 16:23 <rbasak> Thanks psivaa. hallyn doesn't appear to be around, so I'll move on.

 16:23 <psivaa> sure

 16:23 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:24 <rbasak> smb is also not around.

 16:24 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:24 <rbasak> I have no updates. Any questions for me?

 16:24 <rbasak> Oh, one note: I'm waiting on an FFe: bug 1194632

 16:24 <ubottu> bug 1194632 in cpu-checker (Ubuntu) "[FFe] kvm-ok Support for ARM Architecture is Missing" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1194632

 16:25 <rbasak> It'd be nice to see KVM working well on ARM in Saucy

 16:25 <rbasak> We'll see if it happens.

 16:25 <rbasak> (as we have a patch for kvm-ok)

 16:25 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion

 16:25 <rbasak> Anything from the floor?

 16:26 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:26 <rbasak> roaksoax: you're at the front of the rota now. Will you be able to chair next week, or else how should I rearrange the list?

 16:27 <roaksoax> rbasak: works for me, thanks

 16:27 <rbasak> The next meeting will be Tue, 24 Sep 2013 16:00 +0000. The chair will be roaksoax. Thanks!

 16:28 <rbasak> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
