{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

02:57 pitti       moin
02:57 janimo      hey pitti
02:58 slomo_      hi pitti
02:58 ogra        moin
02:58 mvo         hi
02:58 JaneW       surprising few updates were sent to me....
=== mvo needs to preapre his notes
02:59 JaneW       I hope this mean we have a full house today, not just that
                  everyone is AWOL :)
02:59 JaneW       or even AWL
02:59 doko        hi
=== ogra glres at the smallishness of this weeks notes he has
=== dholbach forgot to update too
03:00 pitti       whatever ogra just did, /me does the same
=== seb128 [n=seb128@ubuntu/member/seb128] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:00 seb128      hi
03:00 pitti       hey seg
03:00 pitti       seb, too
03:00 seb128      hey martin :)
03:00 ogra        pitti, flight2 ate 2 days of my week ... so most was CD
                  related stuff here ...
03:01 ogra        that refkects in my report ...
03:01 ogra        *reflects
03:01 JaneW       ok 14:00UTC on my clock
=== infinity [n=adconrad@charon.0c3.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:01 pitti       ogra: I meant  'glres'
=== daniels [n=daniels@amnesiac.heapspace.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:01 pitti       hi infinity
03:01 pitti       hey daniels
=== pitti waves to Australia
03:01 Kamion      hi all
03:01 daniels     g'evening
03:01 ogra        pitti, yes, i can glre very well :)
03:01 Riddell     hi
03:01 JaneW       where's BenC?
03:01 pitti       ogra: shame on you
03:01 ogra        heh
=== BenC [n=bcollins@dpc67142247021.direcpc.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:02 JaneW       hi ben
03:02 pitti       JaneW: summoning powers?
03:02 BenC        hello
03:02 Riddell     are we doing "next weeks" today?
03:02 JaneW       heh
03:02 JaneW       who else is missing
=== mgalvin [n=mgalvin@ubuntu/member/mgalvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:02 Kamion      JaneW: did Diziet send an update? although he only worked one
                  day in the period
03:03 BenC        make sure I'm not first this week, I need a minute to type
                  things up :)
=== ogra has "christmas" for next week ...
03:03 JaneW       Riddell: yes planned activities for 2 weeks (if any) and then
                  in 2 weeks we'll do progress for 2 weeks back...
03:03 Kamion      missing Keybuk, krstic, Lathiat
03:03 JaneW       Kamion: no, I have updates from Daniels and Mithrandir only
03:03 Kamion      ok, that's not a problem for this week I should think
03:04 daniels     i can do mine
03:04 JaneW       yes reminder that there is NO meeting next week - you can all
                  rest :)
=== pappan [n=garbage@bgepxyout-02.asiapac.hp.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:04 fabbione    should we start?
03:04 JaneW       yes
03:04 jbailey     Sure. =)
03:04 JaneW       daniels: go
03:05 daniels     this week: x11r7 rc4 updates, x11r7 final (wooooooooooooooo!),
                  further fixification of xserver-xorg scripts
03:05 pappan      yep
03:05 daniels     friday: x11r7 final updates
03:05 Kamion      I'm going to assume Keybuk's on leave, but no record of it
03:05 daniels     x-roadmap: almost at x11r7; scripts looking in decent shape
                  now
03:05 daniels     blocked: none
03:05 JaneW       thanks
03:06 JaneW       no huge issues with X?
03:06 pitti       still the ati breakage
03:06 ogra        and trident (i owe daniels a debug session here)
03:06 daniels     JaneW: we're seeing some minor breakage on trident (who uses
                  it anyway), and modern ati chips on powerpc
03:06 mvo         dri does not work on my r350
03:06 daniels     JaneW: the solution for the latter should be relatively easy
                  to come by
03:07 mvo         not too important though
03:07 ogra        and for the first i havent yet tested the laes driver :)
03:07 mvo         given that it never even remotely worked before :)
03:07 ogra        *latest
03:07 JaneW       ok great, dholbach you ready?
03:07 dholbach    inclusion-of-docs: did another update, fixed a bug
03:07 dholbach    this week: bug triage, bug day, motu mentoring, random bug
                  fixes, random packages updates, a11y team
03:07 dholbach    next weeks: merges, gnome 2.13.4, bug triage, motu mentoring
=== pappan [n=garbage@bgepxyout-02.asiapac.hp.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:08 JaneW       ok, doko
03:08 doko        this week:
03:08 doko        - openoffice.org: support work, fixing firefox-dev,
                  preparation and upload of 2.0.1 packages
03:08 doko        - python-roadmap: delayed for next week
03:08 doko        next week:
03:08 doko        - openoffice.org: powerpc build
03:08 doko        - python-roadmap: python-central update
03:08 doko        status:
03:08 doko        - toolchain-roadmap: amd64-biarch (still blocked)
03:08 doko        - toolchain-dapper+1: blocked by preparation of wanna-build
                  and buildd infrastructure
                  - openoffice-gnome: not started, martink will work on
03:08 doko        testsuite packaging and gnome integration testing (i.e. file
                  selector in January)
03:09 doko        - openoffice-help: now approved, martink will work on it in
                  January
03:09 doko        - openoffice-spellchecking: not started
03:09 doko        - native-java-gcj: infrastructure is ready, packaging of -gcj
                  binary packages not started
03:09 doko        java-roadmap: mostly done, pending are eclipse updates and the
                  native-java-gcj support
03:09 JaneW       dholbach: sorry to regress is mjg59 going to come and
                  represent power-management-configuration?
03:09 JaneW       doko: is the amd block serious?
03:09 pitti       doko: does that mean OO.o builds against ffox-dev now?
03:10 ogra        JaneW, it works fine as is currently
03:10 dholbach    JaneW: i didn't ask him to appear at this meeting
03:10 ogra        JaneW, power-management that is
03:10 JaneW       dholbach: if he is handling to goal it would be nice to get
                  updates, even e-mail would be fine
=== ogra would call it implemented
03:10 dholbach    JaneW: ok
03:10 doko        JaneW: it's on it's way, jbailey did have other priorities
                  this week
03:10 JaneW       kamion: sorry I kind of took over jump in and grab the reigns
                  if you like ;)
03:10 doko        pitti: yes
=== pitti hugs doko
03:11 pitti       THAAANK YOU
03:11 doko        pitti: please test it ;-)
03:11 JaneW       fabbione: next
03:11 Kamion      no problem, I was just being seb's archive bitch for a moment
03:11 fabbione    * server-candy: md5sum client is basically ready. Blocked on
                  admins (rt: #723). Other stuff will be started soon.
03:11 fabbione    * ubuntu-cluster: no progress this week.
03:11 fabbione    * probe-for-root-filesystem: no progress this week.
03:11 fabbione    * boot-from-usb: blocked by probe-for-root-filesystem.
03:11 fabbione    * merges: zlib - still pending libc6-i386-dev, one minor
                  pending but it's no hurry at all.
03:11 fabbione    * last week: md5sum client and server-candy work,
                  kernel-security.
03:11 fabbione    * next (working) week: kernel security, more on server-candy.
                  scheduled to change the default kernel install on -server.
03:12 JaneW       fabbione: the kernel testing today - all ok?
=== mjg59 [n=mjg59@cavan.codon.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:13 Kamion      fabbione: we'll need to talk about the default kernel for
                  -server stuff, may not be entirely trivial
03:13 fabbione    JaneW: yes, new kernels are in, but we have a regression on
                  the previous security update that's not fixed yet
03:13 fabbione    Kamion: yes. hence next (working) week
03:13 JaneW       hi mjg59, thanks for coming, if you have a
                  power-management-configuration update, that would be great...
03:13 fabbione    JaneW: the situation is complex and not trivial to fix, but we
                  are working hard on it.
03:13 JaneW       infinity: you ready?
03:13 fabbione    JaneW: expect delay due to that
03:13 JaneW       fabbione: ok, understood
03:14 infinity    JaneW: Sure.
03:14 JaneW       fabbione: let me know if it gets serious please
03:14 fabbione    JaneW: yup
                  Last week: Much mucking with kernel stuff, preparation of
03:14 infinity    security updates, and lots and lots of buildd fixes and
                  administration.
03:14 mjg59       JaneW: A brief one, yup
03:14 JaneW       mjg59: yup that's what we are after :)
03:15 infinity    Friday: Finish up and publish security updates, fix up and
                  upload *-docs updates to breezy, and VAC my heart out.
=== klepas [n=klepas@203-213-31-142.static.tpgi.com.au] has joined
03:15 JaneW       iwj: is on leave right?
03:15 Kamion      JaneW: yes
03:15 JaneW       k
03:15 JaneW       jbailey:
03:15 Kamion      since Friday
********** ToolchainRoadmap:  Sorry about lag.  Found another bug which
                  held it up, and then meetings, my X crashing (fixed now), and
03:15 jbailey     general other work distracted me.  I'm not off all of next
                  week, so it'll be sitting in the NEW queue when the archive
                  admins get back.
********** ToolchainRoadmapNg: After the glibc biarch, will start to
03:15 jbailey     evaluate glibc needs. Want to start collecting feedback on
                  dropping pre-i686 per  outstanding issues
03:15 jbailey     * General:
                  - I have klibc fixes for ia64, hppa, and for Tollef's
03:15 jbailey     squishfs.  It's chasing kernel headers bugs at the moment,
                  might be today or tomorrow and then initrd-tools can go away
                  forever.
03:16 jbailey     - I really will finish punting most of my bugs this
                  week.  Maybe right after this meeting so that it's done.
03:16 jbailey     - Thanks to all in general for being really helpful when I
                  come to you for help with support requests.
                  jbailey: I can do low-level archive admin during elmo's
03:16 Kamion      holiday, although I'll be entirely offline for at least a few
                  days between Christmas and New Year
03:17 JaneW       kamion: you're up.
03:17 jbailey     Kamion: Cool.  It won't be time-urgnet, just nice to not have
                  it wait until January.  Thanks.
03:17 Kamion      otherwise, sounds good, thanks
                  misc: I only worked for two days this week, so not much done.
03:17 Kamion      Had locales meeting with pitti/doko/Mithrandir/jbailey, which
                  went well.
                  cd-bootloader: Implemented expert mode toggle-switch for the
03:17 Kamion      install CD; enabled CD timeout again for the install CD
                  following feedback on -devel; fiddled with video mode handling
                  following bug feedback.
                  ubuntu-express-bootloader: Rearranged grub-installer a bit to
                  allow espresso-grub to be written sanely; built a test version
                  which seems to more or less work. Poked a bit at the
03:17 Kamion      Guadalinex code until I can at least run it and start doing
                  incremental improvement on it. Now working on the
                  user/password stage which has actual user interaction and
                  stuff.
03:17 Kamion      blocked: nothing much, for a change
03:17 Kamion      January I hope to really dig in and just plough through ue-*.
03:18 Kamion      maybe hide in a cave for a week or something
03:18 doko        Kamion: when is the next flight scheduled?
03:18 Kamion      doko: not scheduled currently
03:18 JaneW       end of Jan?
03:18 Kamion      my guess is second week of Jan if possible
03:18 JaneW       ok, wow
03:18 Kamion      JaneW: that's pretty late
03:18 pitti       around feature freeze would be nice
03:18 Kamion      feature freeze is ages away
03:18 pitti       for this flight we should do a full scale test
03:19 pitti       oh, I though 19 Jan?
03:19 ogra        around UVF rather ...
03:19 pitti       ah, that was UVF
03:19 mvo         uvf
03:19 pitti       sorry
03:19 Kamion      full scale testing is welcome at any time, if anything *not*
                  right next to a Flight CD release
03:19 Kamion      feel free to take Flight CD 2 and do full-scale test runs on
                  it
03:19 daniels     i'm going to be breaking X early Jan, probably
                  Kamion: : While I'm at the in-laws' place, I have lots of
03:19 infinity    computers here I wouldn't normally test on, so I'll boot some
                  CDs here.
03:20 daniels     when I dump the new xserver-xorg scriptage and
                  x{,server,org}-common -> x11-common merge
                  OK, Keybuk is apparently not around; Jane, can you check with
03:20 Kamion      him by e-mail? I think he's been on leave but can't find a
                  notice of that in any of the usual places.
03:20 Kamion      daniels: noted
=== JaneW neither was just looking, I will ping him...
03:21 Kamion      Mithrandir?
03:21 JaneW       Mithrandir:
03:21 JaneW       - openoffice-amd64: no progress
                  - live-cd-performance: been experimenting with squashfs as
                  well as squashfs-lzma, which a) gives us either 5% extra space
                  or 18% extra space (that's 25 and 84MB on the CD. I haven't
03:21 JaneW       tested booting with squashfs-lzma, but just squashfs cuts
                  nearly off the time from the live cd is booted until when I/O
                  is silenced. Squashfs requires unionfs, since it's a read-only
                  FS and therefore won't work on ppc dueto unionfs bugs.
03:21 JaneW       - one-true-path: no progress
                  - simplified-livecd: usplash problem debugged,
03:21 JaneW       language/keyboard selection still needs to change, but that is
                  blocked on the locales changes (pitti). Apart from that, seems
                  to work well.
03:21 JaneW       - media-integrity-check: no progress, but the rest should be
                  trivial.
                  - network-authentication: no progress, one interested
03:21 JaneW       community member who is going to give me some background
                  information on what changes are needed.
                  - livecd-squashfs: accidentially implemented in casper, needs
03:21 JaneW       some changes in the build system and we need to decide on
                  squashfs or squashfs-lzma.
03:21 JaneW       - blocked on: locales changes, decision on squashfs-lzma,
                  squashfs or continue with cloop.
03:21 JaneW       - plans for next week: more vacation.
03:21 jbailey     "accidentally implemented"?
03:21 JaneW       yes that was a bit alarming...
03:21 JaneW       not sure what it mean exactly
03:21 pitti       JaneW: the locales block is done
03:22 Kamion      I think it turned out to be substantially easier than he'd
                  thought
03:22 JaneW       pitti: great, thanks
03:22 Kamion      either that or he intended to make it non-default and
                  accidentally made it the default
03:22 Kamion      either way, new casper is still definitely work-in-progress
03:22 infinity    Nah, it's not the default, since the livefs isn't squash yet
                  on the buildds. :)
03:22 infinity    But it's a simple switch we can flick to make it go, once the
                  kinks are worked out.
=== dieffel [n=dieffel@50A2F56D.flatrate.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:22 infinity    Which is cool.
03:23 Kamion      good, good
03:23 Kamion      all the code checked in there?
03:23 infinity    Not as yet, since he's still evaluating the best settings to
                  build it, etc.
03:23 Kamion      ok
03:23 Kamion      mvo?
03:23 mvo         Did:
03:23 mvo         - dbus 0.60 transition (package + dependencies)
                  [DapperDesktopPlan]
03:23 mvo         - prepared new libnotify/notify-daemon, tested
03:23 mvo           send bugs upstream  [DapperDesktopPlan]
                  - gnome-app-install work, implemented filter on
03:23 mvo         unsupported/proprietary, fixed bugs, worked around problem
                  with pymozembed, rewrote the desktop/icon extraction code
                  [ThirdPartyPackages]
03:23 mvo         - backported unattended-upgrades (and python-apt) to breezy to
                  get testing feedback from real users
03:23 mvo         [AutomaticUpdates]
03:23 mvo         Will do:
03:23 mvo         - christmas
03:23 mvo         - do the libnotify/notify-daemon transition (api/abi change)
03:23 mvo         - more work on ThirdPartyPackages spec
03:24 Kamion      good work on the dbus transition work, that seems to have been
                  very quick and fairly smooth
03:24 daniels     yes, thanks for that
03:24 mvo         thanks :) yes, nothing major broken, only some hal problems
03:24 jbailey     And ephy. ;)
03:24 ogra        even you didnt announce it to u-d-a for lwn fame :)
=== jbailey hides.
03:25 mvo         jbailey: ephy is a mozilla problem :)
03:25 dholbach    jbailey: should be fixed now
=== mvo really should have send that mail to get fame and glorry
03:25 ogra        yeah
03:25 ogra        yu deserve it :)
03:25 azeem       2
03:25 dholbach    mvo: we love you nevertheless :)
03:25 azeem       argh
03:26 ogra        my turn ?
03:26 Kamion      ogra?
03:26 ogra        * thin-client-sound: waiting for mdz to approve on return
03:26 ogra        * thin-client-local-devices: no progress, meeting with
                  sbalneav still pending
03:26 ogra        * thin-client-memory-usage: some more script changes locally
                  done and tested
03:26 ogra        * thin-client-faster-startup: spec awaiting approval,
03:26 ogra        * gnome-screensaver-default-image: no progress yet, waiting
                  for sabdfl images :)
********** general: most time spent for flight2 testing, worked on ltsp
                  fixes and tests (partially related to the specs),
03:26 ogra        edubuntu-artwork for breezy bugfix (done locally, waiting for
                  infinity feedback on the general change), dhcpd upgrade issue
                  discussed solution pending.
03:26 ogra        * next week: mainly christmas, will do some further ltsp stuff
                  (mem usage and faster startup related) alongside...
03:27 seb128      jbailey: I fixed epiphany
03:27 ogra        somehow i find many testers for edubuntu flight CDs, but
                  nobody seems willing to test *before* a flight is released :/
03:27 Kamion      Do try to get some relaxation in over Christmas, everyone. :)
=== jbailey hugs seb128
03:27 Kamion      ogra: a problem I'm well familiar with :-/
03:27 Kamion      pitti?
=== seb128 hugs jbailey
                  this week: locales restructuring, caught up with the insane
03:27 pitti       bug mail backlog, libsysfs transition, various bug fixes, xine
                  and kernel security updates, sickness
                  still today/tomorrow morning: poke infinity some more to
03:27 pitti       really get PHP security update done before Christmas, fix
                  grave bugs in cups' conffile handling
                  no progress on specs this week; PLAN for first week of
03:27 pitti       January: continue with gstreamer-audio-backend now that we
                  have gst 0.10
03:27 JaneW       pitti: you getting better yet?
03:28 pitti       JaneW: yes, full speed again today :)
03:28 JaneW       cool
03:28 Riddell     pitti: dare I ask about main inclusion reviews?
03:28 pitti       I had no time for those yet
03:28 pitti       avahi is crying, I know
03:28 ogra        pitti, so approve gobby, i'll upload 0.3.0 today ;)
03:28 pitti       but it'll take me half a day to properly review it
03:28 Riddell     fair enough
=== pitti does not feel well about gobby
03:29 pitti       anyway, if you really need avahi soon, I only do a short
                  review and do a source code review later
03:29 ogra        its a edubuntu target for dapper, whats wrong with it ?
03:29 pitti       what about it?
03:29 pitti       ogra: it has ugly bugs, and never saw an audit before
03:29 pitti       young network code, and such
03:29 dholbach    we will surely test gobby at the sprint ;)
03:29 pitti       security is probably a non-issue
03:29 ogra        most of the bugs should e fixed for 0.3.0 ...
03:29 infinity    gobby is pretty vile, as far as visible bugs, that doesn't
                  bode well for the unseen bugs.
                  I'd love to have a conversation about gobby outside of this
03:29 jbailey     meeting and possible look at writing a tool that actually
                  meets our needs instead of almost meeting them but not quite.
03:29 pitti       but my experiences with gobby were pretty badf
03:30 jbailey     Anyone interested for right after?
03:30 Riddell     KDE's mateedit has an undo function :)
03:30 pitti       jbailey: vim-obby :)
03:30 ogra        pitti, i cant give that to my teachers :)
03:30 pitti       heh, sure
03:30 ogra        but apart from that ++
=== ealden [n=ealden@ipdial-189-114.tri-isys.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:31 pitti       ok, so what about avahi?
03:31 pitti       split review and fast-pace, or does it have time until the
                  full review?
03:31 mvo         jbailey: I'm in
03:31 ogra        jbailey, why reinvent the wheel, lets rather fix gobby if you
                  find bugs
03:31 Riddell     pitti: how can you split the review?
03:31 pitti       Riddell: research security history and QA/bugs first, do
                  source code audit later
=== fabbione notices that we are way off-topic
03:32 seb128      pitti: having avahi soon would be nice
03:32 pitti       it's planning how to remove blocks for other people
03:32 Riddell     pitti: the sooner it's in main the sooner I can guide the KDE
                  developers into the stuff needed for dapper (like easy on/off)
03:32 ogra        yes, Riddell is up, isnt he ?
03:32 pitti       ok
03:32 seb128      pitti: that would allow to have some user comments on the apps
                  using it
03:32 pitti       good, I'll do it today
03:32 Kamion      Riddell: go ahead
                  this week: simpleify-kde getting defaults all sorted,
                  kubuntu-system tools fixing bugs, kubuntu-package-manager
03:32 Riddell     discussing ideas and testing/releasing new version of adept,
                  playing with building kubuntu CDs not very successfully,
                  kubuntu-docs packaging
03:33 Riddell     next weeks: further bug fixing, try to get KDE working with
                  current dapper (CUPS, xkb, gstreamer0.10)
03:33 seb128      eh
03:33 Kamion      Riddell: what's up with Kubuntu CD building?
03:33 Riddell     Kamion: I'm not sure, I run it and it seems to do fine but
                  nothing comes out at the end
03:33 Kamion      Riddell: you mean locally, or on little?
03:34 Riddell     Kamion: on little
03:34 Kamion      Riddell: look in cdimage/log/kubuntu-*
03:34 Kamion      it won't log much to stdout because my scripts are JUST THAT
                  GOOD *ahem*
03:34 Kamion      s/much/anything/
03:35 Riddell     I had DEBUG on
03:35 ogra        so you have a lot of debugging stuff in cdimage/log/kubuntu-*
                  ;)
03:35 Kamion      oh, they'll be in cdimage/scratch/kubuntu/debian-cd/ in that
                  case
03:35 ogra        or this :)
03:35 Kamion      or somewhere under scratch, anyway
03:35 Riddell     Kamion: so they don't go to the same place if DEBUG is on?
03:36 Kamion      no, DEBUG turns off publishing to the www tree
03:36 Riddell     aah, problem solved :)
03:36 Kamion      seb128: ok, next
03:36 seb128      dapper-desktop-plan: new version of the session dialog patch,
                  will be uploaded this week
                  video-playback:
03:36 seb128      gst-plugins-base0.10/gst-plugins-good0.10/gst-plugins-ugly0.10
                  uploaded, I've played with rhythmbox/totem gst0.10 and will
                  upload them tomorrow
03:36 seb128      misc: dbus transition, some catchup of the bugs backlog
03:36 seb128      .
03:36 seb128      next: catching with bugzilla, GNOME 2.13.4,
                  dapper-desktop-plan
03:37 Kamion      sounds good. has the menus-revisited stuff pretty much settled
                  down now, or still more feedback to deal with?
03:38 seb128      not sure about the xsane menu item, the rest should be settled
03:38 ogra        apart from "Ubuntu is under attack.." you mean ?
03:39 Kamion      I tend not to read threads that enormous
03:39 ogra        its not worth it ... i read about 60% of it ...
03:39 seb128      don't read the troll
03:39 Kamion      seb128: ok, thanks
03:39 Kamion      sivang: around?
03:40 JaneW       I'll mail him
03:40 Kamion      and that's everyone
03:40 JaneW       mjg59: ready?
03:40 JaneW       and BenC still needs to go...
03:40 Kamion      ah, not quite everyone then
03:40 BenC        * Work this week: Lots more kernel bugs
03:40 BenC        * testing-server-hardware: not started
********** preventing-hardware-support-regressions: BLOCKED: Auto build
03:40 BenC        infrastructure fairly complete (still working out some special
                  cases), but still no dependable place to build.
03:40 BenC        * ubuntu-server-kernel: Amd64 and i386 Done. PPC64 will be
                  next kernel upload, and then this is complete.
03:40 BenC        * Work for next two weeks: testing-server-hardware, continue
                  bug triage for dapper.
03:41 BenC        did I go too soon?
03:41 Kamion      BenC: no, that's fine, thanks
=== BenC was quick on the draw
03:41 JaneW       heh
03:41 Kamion      BenC: some seeding bits for server kernels still need to be
                  sorted out; I'll have a look
03:41 Kamion      insane amounts of anastacia noise right now
03:41 BenC        ok
03:41 mjg59       JaneW: Yup
03:42 BenC        I'm not sure what is involved in making the kernel CD, so just
                  let me know what you need from me
03:42 BenC        s/kernel/server/
03:42 JaneW       mjg59: shoot
                  Power-management-config: KDE has an existing solution, though
03:43 mjg59       it's less than ideal. gnome-power-manager is entirely usable,
                  though it requires an extra dbus security policy that I've
                  been discussing with upstream
                  I'm not even sure *I'm* sure, it's a complicated hack done at
03:43 Kamion      the last minute for breezy; hoping to sort it out more for
                  dapper
03:43 JaneW       mjg59: think you are on track to make dapper?
03:43 mjg59       Once that's in place, shifting g-p-m to desktop sorts us
03:43 ogra        mjg59, g-p-m is really cool now :)
03:44 mjg59       JaneW: Yes, the code that needs writing is very limited
03:44 JaneW       mjg59: great, sounds good
03:44 mjg59       Ideally KDE would change to use HAL as a backend rather than
                  klaptopdaemon, but I'm less sure how practical that is
03:44 JaneW       ok anything else?
03:45 ogra        seb128, mjg59, what do we do with battstat-applet ?
03:45 santa_claus happy christmas to everybody!
03:45 ogra        will it stay around  ?
03:45 fabbione    ahah
03:45 Kamion      I have one quick piece of other business
03:45 JaneW       hohoho
03:45 ogra        lol
03:45 seb128      merry christmas!
03:45 fabbione    have fun guys
03:45 mvo         are we open for other topics now?
03:45 ogra        merry christmas :)
03:45 Kamion      SteveA would like to do the Bugzilla-to-Malone switch soon,
                  and has been talking about this week
                  mjg59: I'll discuss it with people, I'm sure KDE would like to
03:45 Riddell     see that happen too but klaptopdaemon is hardly maintained so
                  I doubt anyone will have time for it
03:45 seb128      and happy new year :)
03:45 Kamion      (though may be a bit late for that now, don't know the exact
                  schedule)
03:46 daniels     i assume all currently open bugs would be imported?
03:46 Kamion      Yes, all open and closed bugs
03:46 daniels     bonus
03:46 fabbione    Kamion: i think SteveA has just been bitten by elmo's vac
03:46 daniels     fabbione: well, obviously Karl doesn't get Christmas then
03:46 pitti       what about the bug numbers? or redirections from bz?
03:46 Kamion      I understand that most of the initial bug contact stuff is
                  sorted
03:46 Kamion      pitti: that I don't know, but I'm hoping they'll turn into
                  cunning Malone watches or something
03:47 mjg59       Riddell: Ok. Can we discuss this elsewhere? I can run over
                  what's needed.
                  the reason I'm bringing this up here is to encourage people to
03:47 Kamion      get their concerns to SteveA and the Malone team sooner rather
                  than later
                  https://wiki.launchpad.canonical.com/BugzillaImportProcess
03:47 Kamion      documents the process they intend to follow in doing the
                  conversion
03:47 Kamion      feedback to SteveA on that process is welcome
=== irvin [n=irvin@203.213.194.27] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                  probably not a good time to raise this, but I was wondering if
03:48 mvo         irc is the right medium for the development status updates.
                  this pasting of text feels like we could also do it (more
                  conveniently) by mail (to my at least)
03:48 Kamion      doing this during distro team downtime is probably a good
                  thing, but if it has to be the new year, so be it
                  mvo: despite the fact that it's 0148 and I'm falling asleep
03:49 daniels     over here, I think it's a good idea.  being able to feed back
                  to people is useful.
03:49 Kamion      mvo: my personal feeling is that IRC's quite good at letting
                  people have quick question/answer sessions relatively cheaply
                  mvo: I am happy to receive e-mails, but I am sure I would need
03:49 JaneW       to nag for them, and there would be no oppportunity for
                  discussion
03:49 jbailey     mvo: I feel more connected that I did to the team before, and
                  I like being able to interact with folks live.
03:49 fabbione    mvo: live > *
03:49 Kamion      a lot of them are the sorts of things that people wouldn't
                  bother to ask by e-mail
03:49 jbailey     mvo: I find the wash of email a bit tedious as it is.
03:49 JaneW       I agree
03:50 mvo         ok, that's a pretty clear picture :)
                  and it does ensure that everyone actually reads most of what
03:50 Kamion      other people are doing, which I think shouldn't be
                  underestimated
03:50 Kamion      we have the activity reports, which I know I read, but I'm
                  sure not everyone does
03:50 Kamion      and they're rather ... verbose
03:51 Kamion      Any other business?
=== klepas [n=klepas@203-213-31-142.static.tpgi.com.au] has left #ubuntu-meeting
[]
03:51 fabbione    nope
                  I'd pretty much like to echo what Mark said in his mail to
03:52 Kamion      allhands@canonical; great work in 2005, we get to feel proud
                  that people love us, lots to do in 2006, and GET SOME REST
                  OVER CHRISTMAS. :-)
03:52 JaneW       heh
03:52 fabbione    hsh
03:53 ogra        Kamion, how should we, many of us will get new gadgets and
                  hardware over christmas :)
=== fabbione is heading to get his new console server
03:53 JaneW       have a fabulous week next week, and enjoy the snow up north,
                  we have a 30deg Christmas forecast here...
03:53 ogra        hehe
03:53 ogra        bah
03:53 Kamion      ogra: that might count as rest depending on your mindset. :-)
03:53 fabbione    JaneW: have fun
03:53 fabbione    cya guys
03:53 ogra        Kamion, *giggle*
03:53 fabbione    thanks
03:54 pitti       thanks to everybody
                  i think getting rest now, before I pass out on the couch and
03:54 daniels     end up with a stuffed back, is more important than over
                  christmas.
03:54 pitti       enjoy the holidays
03:54 Kamion      right, thanks all, enjoy your holidays and see you in 2006!
03:54 mvo         have fun everyone :)
=== pitti hugs everyone
03:54 pitti       seb128: give us a hug :)
=== daniels [n=daniels@amnesiac.heapspace.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting
["SLEEP"]
=== ogra hugs all as well
03:54 sivang      Kamion: now I am
=== dholbach hugs everyone back :)
03:55 Kamion      sivang: ok, go ahead quickly
03:55 sivang      Kamion: started working on implementation. now coding some
                  utility classes that are needed by HUB. that's all :)
=== zakame [n=zak@ubuntu/member/zakame] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:56 Kamion      short and sweet :)
=== mvo has SUPERHUG powers
=== sivang hugs all as well
03:56 sivang      marry Xmas
03:57 ogra        another hugday ?
03:57 sivang      btw, are all canonical people going to be on vacation until 1
                  Jan ?
=== zakame [n=zak@ubuntu/member/zakame] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
03:57 pitti       sivang: pretty much, yes
03:58 mvo         not all, I need to work 2days
                  sivang: Canonical will officially not be operating between 25
03:58 Kamion      Dec and 1 Jan; we're all obliged to reserve enough holiday
                  time to cover that period
03:58 Kamion      I think a couple of people have negotiated special exceptions
                  to that
03:59 BenC        happy holidays everyone
03:59 dholbach    yeah, to you all too
03:59 ogra        enjoy :)
04:00 sivang      Kamion: ah ok, just want to make sure someone stays with me
                  here when I'm all Xmas'less in .il :-)
04:00 Kamion      Hanukkah's about the same time as Christmas this year, isn't
                  it?
04:00 sivang      Kamion: you don't get vacation for it :-(
04:00 sivang      only kids do, in schools
04:00 sivang      kgardens etc..
04:01 JaneW       UPDATE THE LP SPECS PLEASE!
=== pitti already did
04:01 Kamion      sivang: ah
04:01 sivang      anywya, gotta go, Marry Xmas all again! may all your wishes
                  for the new year come true.
=== seb128 hugs pitti
04:02 pitti       seb128: thanks :)
04:03 seb128      np ;)
04:03 JaneW       pitti: you rock :)
04:03 pitti       santa_claus will give you new kernels now, with shiny wrapping
04:03 pappan      sivang: ty same to you
04:03 pitti       thanks to our fabulous Fabio

</pre>
