{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== App Developer Week -- Making App Development Easy: Gedit Developer Plugins -- sinzui -- Tue, Sep 6th, 2011 ===
<pre>
[18:00] <dpm> Next up Launchpad legend Curtis Hovey will talk about his developer plugins for Gedit
[18:00] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/09/06/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[18:06] <sinzui>  What is gedit?
[18:06] <sinzui> gedit is a simple text editor
[18:06] <sinzui>  with support for syntax highlighting
[18:06] <sinzui>  that can be extended for new uses
[18:07] <sinzui> See https://live.gnome.org/Gedit to see a full list of features
[18:07] <sinzui> gedit ships with plugins to help power-users
[18:07] <sinzui>  The gedit-plugins package for provides tools to help developers
[18:07] <sinzui>  Many developers provide extra plugins for specific development
[18:08] <sinzui> See http://live.gnome.org/Gedit/Plugins for a list of plugins supported by gedit 3.x
[18:09] <sinzui> Developers will want to install a few packages from Ubuntu universe to get the set of plugins that I recommend and use.
[18:09] <sinzui> Using Software Center
[18:10] <sinzui> Search gedit plugins
[18:10] <sinzui> Show technical items
[18:10] <sinzui> install gedit-plugins, gedit-developer-plugins
[18:10] <sinzui> Edge and bleeding edge archives provide fixes
[18:10] <sinzui> and features several weeks ahead of Ubuntu
[18:10] <sinzui> universe
[18:11] <sinzui> ppa:sinzui/ppa for what I will propose for Ubuntu, and ppa:sinzui/gdp-unstable for what is being tested--can be dangerous
[18:12] <sinzui> Gedit must be configured for development and to use plugins
[18:12] <sinzui> Edit > Preferences > View
[18:12] <sinzui> * View margin and line numbers
[18:12] <sinzui> * Highlight the line and
[18:12] <sinzui> * matching bracket
[18:12] <sinzui> * Disable text wrapping
[18:13] <sinzui> Edit > Preferences > Editor
[18:13] <sinzui> * Set the tab width to 4 or 8 spaces per the project you are working on
[18:13] <sinzui> * Insert spaces instead of tabs
[18:13] <sinzui> * Enable automatic indentation
[18:14] <sinzui> Edit > Preferences > Plugins
[18:14] <sinzui> Enable: Bookmarks,
[18:14] <sinzui> Code comment, Draw
[18:14] <sinzui> spaces, File browser,
[18:14] <sinzui> panel, GDP Bazaar
[18:14] <sinzui> integration, GDP Find,
[18:14] <sinzui> GDP Format, GDP
[18:14] <sinzui> Syntax, Completer,
[18:14] <sinzui> Modelines, Snippets,
[18:14] <sinzui> Sort, Spell Checker
[18:14] <sinzui> ^ that is only half of the plugins that are installed. There are others that you may want
[18:15] <sinzui> There are also competing and overlaping plugins. notably Word Completion, Snippets, and GDP Syntax Completer
[18:16] <sinzui> The Draw spaces plugin requires additional configuration to work
[18:16] <sinzui> Use the Preferences
[18:16] <sinzui> button in the Plugins
[18:16] <sinzui> tab to set the kinds
[18:16] <sinzui> of white-space you
[18:16] <sinzui> want to see:
[18:17] <sinzui> Enable/disable the plugin using Menu > View > Show white space
[18:17] <sinzui> GDP Syntax completer plugin
[18:17] <sinzui> Use Alt+/ to view a list of candidates to replace the text being typed:
[18:17] <sinzui> * Python identifiers
[18:17] <sinzui> * Open or used xml tags
[18:17] <sinzui> * Words in the document
[18:18] <sinzui> ^ Alt+/ is not convenient, but it avoids the conflicting accelerator issue upstream
[18:19] <sinzui> GDP find and replace plugin
[18:20] <sinzui> Search multiple files within a directory Filter on sub-directory or file name fragment
[18:20] <sinzui> * Use regular expressions
[18:20] <sinzui> * Match case
[18:20] <sinzui> * Replace in multiple files (supports REs)
[18:20] <sinzui> * Save the list of matches
[18:20] <sinzui> The plugin appears in the right panel.
[18:21] <sinzui> You can show the side panel from using F9, or Menu > View > Side panel
[18:21] <sinzui> The find and replace actions are also in the Search menu
[18:22] <sinzui> GDP formating and syntax/style checking
[18:23] <sinzui> Menu > Tools > Check style and syntax reports errors and issues in one of more files being edited
[18:23] <sinzui> There is special support for Python, Javascript, and CSS
[18:24] <sinzui> where syntax errors are reported
[18:24] <sinzui> There are actions under Menu > Tools to reformat CSS and doctest files
[18:25] <sinzui> Menu > Edit > Format provides
[18:25] <sinzui> * text rewrapping
[18:25] <sinzui> * Fix line ending
[18:25] <sinzui> * tabs to spaces
[18:25] <sinzui> * regular expression inline reformatting
[18:25] <sinzui> GDP Bazaar integration
[18:26] <sinzui> * Branch, edit, commit, and push bazaar projects.
[18:26] <sinzui> * bzr-gtk is used to visualize the files and tree
[18:26] <sinzui> * Work with SVN, HG, and git branches when the proper bzr plugins are installed
[18:28] <sinzui> I also use Source Code Browser pugin: A source code class and function browser based on Exuberant Ctags
[18:28] <sinzui> See https://github.com/Quixotix/gedit-source-code-browser
[18:29] <sinzui> ^ This, like my own gedit-developer-plugins is transitioning to Gedit 3.x plugin architecture
[18:29] <sinzui> Some features of the plugins there are available in natty are not available at this moment in oneiric
[18:31] <sinzui> If you are using oneiric, you may have noticed that all plugins in gedit, totem, rhythmbox, and any other libpeas-based application were broken. This was fixed in the last 24 hours
[18:31] <sinzui> bzr-gtk is being updated the gtk3. We may see a package for testing this week
[18:32]  * sinzui is doing the conversion
[18:33] <sinzui> The 4 gdp plugins are broken in oneiric with the libpeas fix. I have a fix and it will be released to my unstable ppa in a few hours
[18:34] <sinzui> The source browser plugin could do more. It shows the tags for the open file, but it does not yet allow you to search a tags file for a project.
[18:35] <sinzui> That is all I have to present. I know quite a bit about gedit, its underlying libraries, plugins, and bzr-gtk. I can answer question on these topics
[18:44] <sinzui> bulldog98: there is a vi mode plugin for gedit 2.x
[18:45] <sinzui> mohammedalieng: keyboard shortcuts can be enabled for ALL gtk applications by hacking a gconf/dconf config key
[18:45] <sinzui>  The feature is essentially gtkrc accelerator configs files
[18:46] <sinzui> shazzner: gdp syntax completer will complete python and show the ptyhon help(). It needs refinement
[18:47] <sinzui> shazzner the display window is broken upstream (in the gtk source view complete code). I am working on a work around or an upstream widget fix
[18:49] <sinzui> dpm: gedit-developer-plugins has been in universe since natty and I update it when I see development break. It broke this morning. I already have a fix pushed. I will build and test the package today!
[18:49] <sinzui> I think I have answered everyone's question
[18:50] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[18:50] <sinzui> bulldog98, gvim (gtk-version) uses gtksourceview2 (the gedit display lib).
[18:51] <sinzui> The core gedit app adds undo, find and replace, and plugin support to the core lib
[18:52] <sinzui> So gvim just marries gedit display rules with vim's editing rules
[18:54] <sinzui> shazzner: one other point. There is a tab/control+space accelerator conflict in Gedit. There is one completer module that other modules provide for, but there was not mechanism to manage which provider is activate.
[18:55] <sinzui> I use GDP Syntax Completer and snippet, so I choose the awkward Alt+/ combination :(
</pre>
