{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** None 
* Precise Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
* None

===== Precise Development =====
* Discussion of team <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-server.html|Work Items]]</nowiki>. Any feature which will not be uploaded by this Thursday, needs to be marked defered or discuss a FinalFreeze Exception
* Discussion of <nowiki>[[http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html|relevant bugs]]</nowiki>

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
* None

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
* None

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
* None

===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) =====
* None

===== Open Discussion =====
* Nothing interesting.

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====
* Tuesday 2012-02-28 at 1600 UTC

===== Meeting Actions =====
* None

=== Log ===
<pre>
[09:02] <utlemming> #startmeeting
[09:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb 21 16:02:16 2012 UTC.  The chair is utlemming. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[09:02] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[09:02] <utlemming> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[09:02] *** meetingology sets the channel topic to "Review ACTION points from previous meeting".
[09:02] <zul> oh good not me
[09:02] <utlemming> It doesn't look like there is anything to cover from the last meeting
[09:03] <utlemming> so we'll move on then
[09:03] <utlemming> [TOPIC] Precise Development
[09:03] *** meetingology sets the channel topic to "Precise Development".
[09:03] <utlemming> Fearless Leader Daviey, what do you have for us?
[09:03] <Daviey> oh, hello
[09:03] <Daviey> Firstly, FF was last Thursday.
[09:04] <Daviey> Is there any undeclared features people need to land before release?
[09:04] <hallyn> define declared?
[09:04] <ScottK> There will be a postfix FFe for 2.9.
[09:04] <arosales> jamespage: and rbasak are working on openmpi 1.5
[09:04] <ScottK> lamont and I have already discussed it.
[09:04] <utlemming> I'm working on a cloud-image mirroring script
[09:04] <Daviey> ScottK: Oh, great. Anything exciting?
[09:05] <adam_g> Daviey: opnenstack introduced a new python dependency over the weekend that is not in main, python-iso8601
[09:05] <roaksoax> I'll have to file FFe for cobbler MIR and probably some other packages new upstream's
[09:05] <adam_g> (for nova + glance)
[09:05] <Daviey> arosales: is openmpi still ging to ship 1.4 and 1.5, or still investigating just switching?
[09:05] <Daviey> adam_g: *sigh*
[09:05] <jamespage> Daviey: decision on that in the next hour
[09:06] <arosales> Daviey: I think jamespage and rbasak were working on updating to 1.5
[09:06] <arosales> include the dependencies,
[09:06] <Daviey> adam_g: at least it is packaged!
[09:06] <Daviey> jamespage: cool
[09:06] <Daviey> shall we go through the bug states?
[09:06] <Daviey> arosales: cool
[09:06] <Daviey> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
[09:06] <adam_g> Daviey: its very small, too. <150 LOC
[09:07] <Daviey> adam_g: should be simples.. :)
[09:07] <Daviey> bug 924739
[09:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 924739 in squid3 (Ubuntu Precise) "after upgrade from oneiric to precise, previous squid config unused, cannot be used when relocated" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/924739
[09:07] <Daviey> adam_g: were you looking at that?
[09:07] <ScottK> Daviey: usual new release of postfix.  The biggest change is a memcache client.
[09:08] <adam_g> Daviey: a bit, but haven't made any progres sinthe last week
[09:08] <Daviey> ScottK: well between you, lamont and a reliable upstream.. doesn;t concern too much :)
[09:08] * ScottK nods
[09:08] <Daviey> adam_g: Are you able to investigate further before next tues?
[09:09] <roaksoax> adam_g: do you think a newer upstream of squid with improve things?
[09:09] <adam_g> Daviey: i can, but not certain how much progress i can make alone. would love to have help of anyone else interested
[09:09] <adam_g> roaksoax: not AFAIK. there are features not-yet ported to squid3 that cause config parsing to fail
[09:09] <Daviey> adam_g: Okay, if you drive it - we'll see who else can help.
[09:10] <adam_g> Daviey: k
[09:10] <Daviey> roaksoax is kinda snowed under right now.
[09:10] <roaksoax> adam_g: I can also help with that as I have a bug with the buckets which is supposedly fixed in a new upstream that is in debian unstable atm mand we might have to file FFe
[09:10] <SpamapS> o/
[09:10] <Daviey> bug 883988
[09:10] <Daviey> another for adam_g ? :)
[09:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 883988 in glance (Ubuntu Precise) "db migration failing when upgrading glance - trying to create existing tables" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/883988
[09:10] <adam_g> Daviey: unfortunately i missed the openstack project meeting where i'd like to bring that up, will do this week
[09:11] <Daviey> adam_g: tonight?
[09:11] <adam_g> Daviey: ah, yea
[09:11] <Daviey> bug 893926, assignee unassigned themselves.. It's an open bug for anyone to grab..
[09:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 893926 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "Contains traces of UEC" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/893926
[09:11] <Daviey> (I'll take it if someone else doesn't)
[09:12] <Daviey> roaksoax: bug 911812 ?
[09:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 911812 in facter (Ubuntu Precise) "processor fact does not handle arm, others" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/911812
[09:12] <Daviey> SpamapS: bug 914392 ?
[09:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 914392 in juju (Ubuntu) "LXC local provider does not respect 'series' (only installs oneiric)" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/914392
[09:13] <SpamapS> Daviey: fix released! (marking as such)
[09:13] <Daviey> SpamapS: \o/
[09:13] <Daviey> zul: bug 923681
[09:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 923681 in debian-installer (Ubuntu) "Server install fails when selecting everything but 'VM host' & 'Manual selection' from tasksel" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/923681
[09:13] <zul> should be fixed now...ill have to download an iso to test
[09:14] <Daviey> neat
[09:14] <roaksoax> Daviey: sorry, hanlde it now as I have pandbaboards to test with
[09:14] <Daviey> cool
[09:14] <Daviey> bug 925024 , hallyn ?
[09:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 925024 in lxc (Ubuntu) "apparmor makes it impossible to install postgresql-common on Precise" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/925024
[09:15] <Daviey> bug 850443 , /me , not much progress.  Checking with an upstream depends if it has been fixed, awaiting feedback
[09:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 850443 in python-eventlet (Ubuntu) "Nova API does not listen on IPv6" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/850443
[09:16] <hallyn> <shrug> jjohansen ahs a fix
[09:16] <hallyn> He was waiting on other apparmor changes, but at this poitn I"m not sure that's appropriate any more
[09:16] <hallyn> Need to talk to him about it.
[09:16] <Daviey> hallyn: okay, can you check in with him if it is fixed in Precise?
[09:16] <Daviey> bug 928383 , adam_g / zul ?
[09:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 928383 in glance (Ubuntu) "python-glance package contains stuff about API and registry" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/928383
[09:17] <hallyn> Daviey: it's not fixed in precise, pretty sure.  Just need to ask him to push separately
[09:17] <hallyn> (will do)
[09:17] <Daviey> hallyn: thanks!
[09:17] <Daviey> bug 928990 : smoser ?
[09:17] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 928990 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "fsck / dirty filesystem on instance is death" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/928990
[09:17] <zul> Daviey: "I've used 2012.1~e3-0ubuntu0~ppa1~oneiric1 version."
[09:18] <zul> but ill have a look
[09:18] <Daviey> thanks zul, what about  bug 929780 ?
[09:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 929780 in nova (Ubuntu) "console.ring files should not be world readable" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/929780
[09:18] <smb> Daviey, not sure but I think smoser is supposed to be on vacation or so. At least probably not working
[09:18] <Daviey> smb: right!
[09:19] <Daviey> adam_g: bug 932466 ?
[09:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 932466 in Glance "glance db migrations deadlock against precise mysql server" [Low,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/932466
[09:19] <adam_g> Daviey: ah, just marked fixed released for ubuntu
[09:20] <Daviey> bug 932468 , /me , fix released - updated
[09:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 932468 in OpenStack Compute (nova) "python-novaclient hardcodes UUID_CACHE_DIR, this should respect some env variable" [Undecided,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/932468
[09:20] <Daviey> bug 875262 , SpamapS ?
[09:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 875262 in php5 (Ubuntu Oneiric) "PHP Startup: Unable to load dynamic library '/usr/lib/php5/20090626+lfs/sqlite.so'" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/875262
[09:20] <Daviey> (Did php get updated?)
[09:21] <Daviey> bug 880339: roaksoax ?
[09:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 880339 in mysql-5.1 (Ubuntu Precise) "AppArmor profile needs update" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/880339
[09:21] <zul> lookes like it
[09:21] <roaksoax> Daviey: have tried couple times cound't reproduce it
[09:21] <Daviey> zul: right, but is it still a bug? :) (PHP)
[09:21] <roaksoax> Daviey: but I have a new lead. will look further also this week too
[09:22] <SpamapS> Daviey: PHP did get updated
[09:22] <Daviey> roaksoax: Can you update the bug, and mark it incomplete pending more data?
[09:22] <SpamapS> Daviey: and the mysql apparmor profile was fixed, I think
[09:22] <Daviey> SpamapS: sweet
[09:22] <Daviey> bug 907197: zul ?
[09:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 907197 in nova (Ubuntu) "ip address can't be injected into the instance when using lxc " [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/907197
[09:22] <SpamapS> the PHP sqlite bug has a comment from me asking for those affected to test again
[09:23] <SpamapS> it got fixed in Debian actually
[09:23] <Daviey> zul: bug 879666 ( rbasak ?)
[09:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 879666 in nova (Ubuntu Precise) "chown error for console.fifo when launching vm" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/879666
[09:24] <Daviey> SpamapS: good job!
[09:24] <rbasak> zul?
[09:24] <zul> Daviey: starting again on it this week
[09:24] <Daviey> is zul still alive?
[09:25] <zul> Daviey: barely
[09:25] <Daviey> zul: both of them? ^^
[09:25] <zul> i cant seem to reproduce the lxc one yet still
[09:25] <Daviey> ?
[09:25] <Daviey> zul: i don't follow.
[09:25] <Daviey> zul: ah!
[09:26] <Daviey> zul: Can you give it another crack this week?
[09:26] <Daviey> bug 918791: hallyn
[09:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 918791 in qemu-kvm (Ubuntu Precise) "qemu-kvm dies when using vmvga driver and unity in the guest" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/918791
[09:26] <hallyn> jwerner was looking at that?
[09:27] <Daviey> ah.. and he's not here :(
[09:27] <hallyn> if he wont 'have time i can take a day this week to dedicate to figuring it out.
[09:27] <Daviey> hallyn: Can you check in with him after this?
[09:27] <hallyn> ok
[09:28] <Daviey> bug 924375, smoser - wil check in with him when he is around
[09:28] <Daviey> bug 925024
[09:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 924375 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "cloud-init should allow pre-seeding of ec2 datasource:Ec2:metadata_urls" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/924375
[09:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 925024 in lxc (Ubuntu) "apparmor makes it impossible to install postgresql-common on Precise" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/925024
[09:28] <hallyn> didn't we already talk about that?
[09:29] <Daviey> dupe, yeah
[09:29] <Daviey> utlemming: bug 926160 ?
[09:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 926160 in Ubuntu "precise cloud-images significantly larger than oneiric" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/926160
[09:29] <SpamapS> Daviey: shouldn't we also check in on blueprints/topic-blueprints?
[09:29] <Daviey> SpamapS: Yes.
[09:30] <utlemming> Daveiy: no update, looks like we won't be fixing it as it is related to disk creation and not the images themselves. 
[09:30] <Daviey> bug 928378: adam_g zul ?
[09:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 928378 in glance (Ubuntu) "glance client should be separate from server" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/928378
[09:30] <zul> Daviey: ill take it
[09:30] <Daviey> utlemming: ah, can you mark it as such. :)
[09:31] <utlemming> yes sir
[09:31] <Daviey> zul: bug 931236 ?
[09:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 931236 in keystone (Ubuntu) "keystone install is unnecessarily interactive" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/931236
[09:31] <zul> looked at it...no solution for it though
[09:31] <Daviey> bug 932800: adam_g ?
[09:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 932800 in glance (Ubuntu) "New glance dependency: ca-certificates" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/932800
[09:31] <Daviey> zul: Hmm, really?
[09:31] <zul> Daviey: really
[09:31] <adam_g> Daviey: we can get the ca-certificates added this week for sure, befor next snapshot
[09:31] <Daviey> ok.
[09:32] <Daviey> rocking.
[09:32] <Daviey> bug 901881, seems an easy catch for this week aswell
[09:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 901881 in glance (Ubuntu) "nova and glance should depend on python-keystone" [Low,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/901881
[09:32] <Daviey> Any other busg that should be targeted ?
[09:32] <adam_g> Daviey: still blocked on the keystone MIR, but needed more now than before
[09:33] <Daviey> right
[09:33] <Daviey> Blueprints.
[09:33] <Daviey> SpamapS: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-automated-boot-testing , everything TODO to be postponed?
[09:34] <Daviey> jamespage: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-cloud-image-testing same?
[09:34] <Daviey> (freecloud item to be postponed for sure, i guess)
[09:34] <SpamapS> Daviey: not at all. Its just been slow getting integrated into the test suite because they don't want more development done on it.
[09:35] <SpamapS> Daviey: I need to get w/ jamespage and get the changes I already developed added into the testing framework and then those will fall rapidly
[09:35] <Daviey> SpamapS: how is juju charm testing doing?
[09:35] <jamespage> Daviey: yep - I'll postpone that ietm
[09:36] <Daviey> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-juju-charm-testing
[09:36] <SpamapS> Daviey: spec seems stalled.. will have to revive it (set it aside for Feature Freeze)
[09:36] <Daviey> adam_g: is https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-openstack-charms accurate ?
[09:36] <Daviey> SpamapS: cool
[09:37] <Daviey> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-cfjuju , just postponed puppet items on behalf of lynxman
[09:37] <adam_g> Daviey: yes, tho i think POSTPONED'ing 'melange - charm needed if quantum is supported (tech preview)'
[09:38] <Daviey> SpamapS: Can you report how juju is shaping up?
[09:38] <Daviey> adam_g: make it so :)
[09:38] <SpamapS> Lots of bugs fixed. Subordinates are starting to land.
[09:38] <SpamapS> Still a giant pile of production limiting bugs.
[09:39] <SpamapS> But we will be working on some "real world" testing of juju+precise in the next few weeks.
[09:39] <Daviey> great!
[09:39] <Daviey> Hopefully they'll be some bitesize bugs everyone can work on :)
[09:39] <Daviey> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-ceph
[09:40] <Daviey> (being driven by kernel, smb?)
[09:40] <Daviey> or SpamapS ?
[09:40] <smb> huh?
[09:40] <Daviey> hallyn: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-kvm-document-suggested-changes ?
[09:41] <Daviey> smb: there seems to be some ceph todo's assigned to the kernel team, are you/they aware?
[09:41] <smb> Daviey, no
[09:41] <Daviey> smb: rocking :)
[09:42] <Daviey> SpamapS: Is it something that can be postponed ?
[09:42] <Daviey> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-powernap likely to be postponed?
[09:42] <Daviey> SpamapS: and/or https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-p-glusterfs-mir
[09:42] <SpamapS> Daviey: some of the ceph stuff will be postponed yes
[09:43] <roaksoax> Daviey: I;m postponing it and propiosing it to GSoC
[09:43] <Daviey> roaksoax: cool
[09:43] <SpamapS> Daviey: Not sure about glusterfs.
[09:43] <Daviey> SpamapS: can you update, and speak to smb about what needs to be done?
[09:43] <SpamapS> Daviey: with a LOW priority, its been pushed down a lot.
[09:43] <Daviey> SpamapS: lets table glusterfs for the meeting and work otu for next week.
[09:43] <Daviey> DONE
[09:43] <Daviey> sorry for overunnning..
[09:43] <Daviey> utlemming: ?
[09:43] <utlemming> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[09:43] *** meetingology sets the channel topic to "Ubuntu Server Team Events".
[09:44] <SpamapS> Daviey: I don't think there's anything for the kernel team to do for CEPH .. its more about QA and testing.
[09:44] <utlemming> Do we have any team events this week?
[09:44] <utlemming> I'll take that as a no...
[09:44] <utlemming> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[09:44] *** meetingology sets the channel topic to "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)".
[09:44] <hggdh> hi
[09:45] <utlemming> hggdh, rbasak: do either of you have an arm server updates?
[09:45] <rbasak> No updates
[09:45] <hggdh> nope
[09:45] <hallyn> Daviey: (sorry;  except for netcf everything on my blueprints is handle-able)
[09:45] <utlemming> Great...thank you gentlemen
[09:45] <utlemming> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[09:45] *** meetingology sets the channel topic to "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)".
[09:45] <utlemming> smb: hows the kernel?
[09:45] <Daviey> (hallyn: great)
[09:45] <smb> utlemming, Not too bad, thanks :)
[09:46] <smb> Well right now persuing some issue back in lucid with spinloack
[09:46] <hggdh> I am setting up persistent VMs for all supported Ubuntu releases in the QA lab. This could be used, later on, to test server SRUs
[09:46] <smb> trying to look into an issue smoser has brought up
[09:46] <hggdh> ..
[09:47] <smb> and something else I cannot remember right now
[09:47] <smb> (failing a bit on the mutlitasking part :-P)
[09:47] <smb> ..
[09:47] <smoser> smoser's interupts are high priority!
[09:47] <smoser> :)
[09:48] * smoser thanks smb for his help
[09:48] <Daviey> smb: the kernel has been rock solid for me so far :)
[09:48] <Daviey> (best. kernel. ever)
[09:48] <utlemming> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[09:48] *** meetingology sets the channel topic to "Open Discussion".
[09:49] <utlemming> Any other topics, questions, concerns or general mockings? 
[09:50] * Daviey mocks soren 
[09:50] <utlemming> +1
[09:50] <SpamapS> huats: care to update us on zentyal briefly?
[09:50] * lynxman points to Sorens target audience
[09:50] <huats> SpamapS: sure
[09:50] <huats> so
[09:51] <huats> zentyal packages have been out for a while
[09:51] <SpamapS> In a PPA
[09:51] <huats> and they ask to be include in universe
[09:52] <huats> so there is a massive review of their work
[09:52] <huats> since they have change many things
[09:52] <huats> and the name of the package
[09:52] <huats> which means a NEW process inclusion
[09:52] <huats> so
[09:53] <huats> I am doing a review on that aspect to help the archive admin that will review the packages
[09:53] <SpamapS> Baically, bug 928501 needs to be fixed.. but that involves *19* NEW packages
[09:53] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 928501 in ebox (Ubuntu) "Precise will ship totally broken ebox packages" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/928501
[09:53] <huats> (this is what we have defined with SpamapS)
[09:53] <huats> the thing is that the upstream is also doing the packaging
[09:53] <huats> and they are really eager to help
[09:53] <SpamapS> so huats is going to do a preliminary review looking at what the AA's will look at .. so that there isn't a cycle of review and rejection
[09:54] <SpamapS> I'll upload the packages (and review as well) once huats has taken a look and gotten some feedback to the Zentyal devs
[09:54] <huats> I should be able to give a first review by tomorrow
[09:54] <SpamapS> Anyway, thats all
[09:54] <huats> :)
[09:54] <SpamapS> huats: right?
[09:55] <SpamapS> huats: THANK YOU!
[09:55] <huats> thanks for the clarification :)
[09:55] <huats> that is it :)
[09:55] <utlemming> And with that, we'll yield back the balance of the time.
[09:55] <utlemming> #endmeeting
[09:55] *** meetingology sets the channel topic to "Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology".
[09:55] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Feb 21 16:55:51 2012 UTC.
[09:55] <meetingology> Minutes (wiki):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-21-16.02.moin.txt
[09:55] <meetingology> Minutes (html):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-21-16.02.html
[09:55] <hallyn> \o/
[09:56] <arosales> Thanks for moderating utlemming
[09:57] <SpamapS> utlemming: FYI, you missed "announce the next meeting time"
[09:57] <SpamapS> which would be, next Tuesday
</pre>
