{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** Previous meeting (June 24th) actions:
*** None
  
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===
* Alpha 1 for server was released on Thursday July 26th: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2014/06/27/ubuntu-14-10-utopic-unicorn-alpha-1-released/

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, July 8th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <lutostag> o/
[16:00] <rharper> \o
[16:00] <gnuoy> o/
[16:00] <tych0> \o
[16:01] <smoser> o/
[16:01] <smoser> o./
[16:01] <coreycb> o/
[16:01] <gaughen> o/
[16:02] <matsubara> o/
[16:02] <lutostag> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:02] <rharper> man, what's with the bot these days
[16:02] <lutostag> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02]  * matsubara wonders if tych0 and rharper are left handed.
[16:02] <lutostag> There were none, so we're good there
[16:02] <lutostag> #topic Utopic Development
[16:02] <lutostag> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
[16:02] <rharper> matsubara: hehe
[16:03] <kickinz1> o/
[16:03] <lutostag> Alpha1 was yesterday, smoser said we were done last week
[16:03] <tych0> i was really just following rharper's lead there
[16:03] <lutostag> Alpha2 is at end of month, so nothing for a while
[16:04] <lutostag> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:04] <lutostag> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:04] <smoser> alpha1 was thursday
[16:04] <smoser> http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/14.10/alpha-1/
[16:04] <smoser> http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2014/06/27/ubuntu-14-10-utopic-unicorn-alpha-1-released/
[16:04] <smoser> but that is finished, yes.
[16:04] <lutostag> smoser: sweet, thanks
[16:05] <lutostag> same clamav bug as last week is the only high
[16:06] <lutostag> we need to make sure we are doing enough triage to make sure we aren't missing anything (me included)
[16:06] <lutostag> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:06] <lutostag> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
[16:06] <lutostag> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server
[16:07] <lutostag> we need to make progress, but still got lots of time in this cycle
[16:08] <lutostag> anything else on blueprint front?
[16:08] <lutostag> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:09] <lutostag> caribou said there's nothing particular on his side
[16:09] <lutostag> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:09] <psivaa> lutostag: no updates from us, smoke testing runs fine
[16:09] <psivaa> for utopic that is
[16:09] <lutostag> :)
[16:10] <lutostag> I'm guessing no questions for you guys then...
[16:10] <lutostag> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
[16:10] <smb> Not much from my side. Just a bit of whining about (again) finding that some feature/patch silently went away in Utopic when a new version from upstream was merged. While it is a reminder for getting back to that upstream discussion I rather would no *accidentally* find out. :-P
[16:10] <smb> libvirt that is
[16:11] <smb>  /whining
[16:11] <lutostag> alright, anything besides libvirt?
[16:11] <smb> not at this point in time
[16:12] <lutostag> smb: thanks!
[16:12] <lutostag> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:12] <lutostag> anything coming up?
[16:13] <lutostag> I dont know of anything, so I guess thats a no
[16:13] <lutostag> #topic Open Discussion
[16:14] <lutostag> I guess we're all a little quiet today :)
[16:14] <lutostag> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
[16:14] <lutostag> +7days
[16:15] <lutostag> rharper: you will *actually* be chair next week
[16:15] <rharper> hehe
[16:15] <lutostag> thanks everyone
[16:15] <lutostag> #endmeeting
</pre>
