{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by AlanBell at 19:02:36 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-10-28-19.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review last meetings action items

* Open items in the IRCC tracker

* Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council
** bug 913541 there are a number of people with Ubuntu IRC cloaks who have expired from the ubuntumembers group - AlanBell  (AlanBell, 19:12:54)

* alignment of launchpad teams and channel access lists

* replacing eir with an ubottu plugin
''ACTION:'' AlanBell Pici Tm_T m4v to initiate the process of getting scratbot code into ubottu  (AlanBell, 19:21:31)

* Any Other Business
''ACTION:'' alanbell to sort out udsbotu in uds channels  (AlanBell, 19:22:10)
''ACTION:'' alanbell to blog about UDS IRC channels  (AlanBell, 19:22:20)

Meeting ended at 19:30:19 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* AlanBell Pici Tm_T m4v to initiate the process of getting scratbot code into ubottu
* alanbell to sort out udsbotu in uds channels
* alanbell to blog about UDS IRC channels

=== Action items, by person ===

* AlanBell
* * AlanBell Pici Tm_T m4v to initiate the process of getting scratbot code into ubottu
* Pici
* * AlanBell Pici Tm_T m4v to initiate the process of getting scratbot code into ubottu
* Tm_T
* * AlanBell Pici Tm_T m4v to initiate the process of getting scratbot code into ubottu
* ubottu
* * AlanBell Pici Tm_T m4v to initiate the process of getting scratbot code into ubottu
* udsbotu
* * alanbell to sort out udsbotu in uds channels

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (61)
* Pici (10)
* Tm_T (9)
* Spads (7)
* meetingology (6)
* udsbotu (2)
* ubottu (2)
* cjohnston (2)

=== Full Log ===

 19:02:36 <AlanBell> #startmeeting IRC Team

 19:02:36 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Oct 28 19:02:36 2012 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 19:02:36 <meetingology> 

 19:02:36 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 19:02:43 <AlanBell> hi all, who is here for the meeting?

 19:02:50 <Pici> howdy

 19:03:47 <AlanBell> #topic Review last meetings action items

 19:04:01 <AlanBell> last meeting was here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/IRCC/20120624

 19:05:14 <AlanBell> we had an action item to set up #ubuntu-discuss, which we did, the channel has been rather quiet but Jussi has requested we keep it going a bit longer, I am inclined to review it again next meeting after UDS, it might prove useful still

 19:05:26 <AlanBell> if it doesn't we can close it and forward to -offtopic or something

 19:05:46 <Pici> Sounds good.

 19:05:53 <cjohnston> does anyone here have access to the udsbottu?

 19:05:54 <Pici> Too bad it hasn't seen more action though

 19:06:01 <Spads> cjohnston: "udsbotu"

 19:06:01 <AlanBell> another action item was looking at ban removal in ubottu, which we can come onto in a minute

 19:06:08 <Tm_T> I'm ok having -discuss around still

 19:06:12 <Tm_T> even if it slow

 19:06:14 <AlanBell> cjohnston: that would be tsimpson I think

 19:06:25 <cjohnston> is he all?

 19:06:34 <AlanBell> jussi too possibly

 19:07:32 <AlanBell> cjohnston: what needs doing?

 19:08:01 <Spads> AlanBell: cjohnston is on a phone, so he asked me to explain.  Basically we have a bunch of IRC channels for the session rooms at UDS, and we need to get the bot to join those.

 19:08:26 <Spads> AlanBell: You can get a list of channel names by hovering over the little speech bubbles on e.g: http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-r/2012-10-29/

 19:09:02 <Spads> \Takei{Oh myyyy...}

 19:09:18 <AlanBell> hi udsbotu :)

 19:09:27 * Spads takes this as a demonstration of this fully operational udsbotu

 19:09:30 <AlanBell> looks like she listens to me so I will sort that out after the meeting

 19:09:35 <Spads> AlanBell: many thanks!

 19:09:43 <Tm_T> AlanBell: rock on

 19:10:00 <Spads> Rock over London; rock on Chicago.

 19:10:07 <AlanBell> yay

 19:10:17 <AlanBell> the other action item was pici to review masks for Ubuntu Member access to channels

 19:10:52 <Pici> uhh.

 19:11:19 <AlanBell> oh, this was stuff like this channel where the mask might not match the variety of cloaks we have or somethign

 19:11:34 <Pici> I remember looking at it an one point, I'll have something done for next meeting.

 19:11:49 <AlanBell> ok, no problem

 19:11:57 <AlanBell> on to the agenda items

 19:12:07 <AlanBell> #topic Open items in the IRCC tracker

 19:12:12 <AlanBell> none at all \o/

 19:12:21 <Tm_T> nooooooo

 19:12:26 <Pici> wooo

 19:12:32 <AlanBell> #topic Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council

 19:12:54 <AlanBell> #subtopic bug 913541 there are a number of people with Ubuntu IRC cloaks who have expired from the ubuntumembers group - AlanBell

 19:12:57 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 913541 in ubuntu-community "there are a number of people with Ubuntu IRC cloaks who have expired from the ubuntumembers group" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/913541

 19:12:57 <udsbotu> Ubuntu bug 913541 in ubuntu-community "there are a number of people with Ubuntu IRC cloaks who have expired from the ubuntumembers group" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/913541 - Assigned to Ubuntu IRC Council (ubuntu-irc-council)

 19:13:08 <AlanBell> I think pici sorted the last of these out (at the time)

 19:13:16 <AlanBell> should run that script again to check

 19:13:23 <Pici> Indeed, they were all fixed as of whenever I did it.

 19:13:53 <AlanBell> ok, I will run the script as a check, and close the bug

 19:13:54 <AlanBell> \o/

 19:14:03 <AlanBell> #topic alignment of launchpad teams and channel access lists

 19:14:59 <AlanBell> I have basically done this one, I will do a final check through, I have a script that parses the launchpad groups and a google docs spreadsheet of the access lists and they basically tie up now

 19:15:27 <AlanBell> it is going to be hard to fully automate because of stuff like the kubuntu council having access to things nested in the normal access groups

 19:16:03 <AlanBell> right, lets move on to eir

 19:16:05 <AlanBell> #topic replacing eir with an ubottu plugin

 19:16:19 <AlanBell> bug 892500 eir is still not fit for purpose in #ubuntu -ikonia

 19:16:20 <udsbotu> Ubuntu bug 892500 in ubuntu-community "eir is still not fit for purpose in #ubuntu" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/892500 - Assigned to Ubuntu IRC Council (ubuntu-irc-council)

 19:16:20 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 892500 in ubuntu-community "eir is still not fit for purpose in #ubuntu" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/892500

 19:16:40 <AlanBell> udsbotu: part #ubuntu-meeting

 19:17:08 <AlanBell> so we have in #ubuntu-bots-test the rather good scratbot

 19:17:16 <AlanBell> which is doing some ban management

 19:17:32 <AlanBell> is it good enough? do we turn it on and remove eir?

 19:17:33 <Pici> Is it ready for prime time?

 19:17:46 <AlanBell> well I have been pestering people to test it :)

 19:17:54 <AlanBell> I had a go and it seems to function well

 19:17:59 <Tm_T> my only concern is if it has all the needed functionalities, what I know it does

 19:18:15 <AlanBell> I believe it may require ubottu to be opped

 19:18:21 <AlanBell> for ban removal

 19:18:27 <Tm_T> hmm

 19:18:39 <Tm_T> it cannot op itself when needed?

 19:18:45 <AlanBell> maybe

 19:19:33 <AlanBell> actually scratdev is not opped in -bots-test

 19:20:06 <AlanBell> right, I think we should talk to m4v about the production readyness of it

 19:20:12 <AlanBell> and get the code up on launchpad for review

 19:20:22 <AlanBell> then turn it on and fix what breaks :)

 19:20:27 <Tm_T> sounds like a plan

 19:20:39 <Pici> Sounds good

 19:20:57 <AlanBell> great

 19:21:31 <AlanBell> #action AlanBell Pici Tm_T m4v to initiate the process of getting scratbot code into ubottu

 19:21:31 * meetingology AlanBell Pici Tm_T m4v to initiate the process of getting scratbot code into ubottu

 19:21:35 <AlanBell> nick m4v

 19:21:57 <AlanBell> #topic Any Other Business

 19:22:10 <AlanBell> #action alanbell to sort out udsbotu in uds channels

 19:22:10 * meetingology alanbell to sort out udsbotu in uds channels

 19:22:20 <AlanBell> #action alanbell to blog about UDS IRC channels

 19:22:20 * meetingology alanbell to blog about UDS IRC channels

 19:22:47 <AlanBell> now, we had a blueprint for a UDS session

 19:22:58 <AlanBell> dunno if it got scheduled

 19:23:51 <AlanBell> the other thing we should do is a call for ops, and process the queues

 19:24:08 <AlanBell> don't think there are many applicants right now which is fine

 19:24:30 <AlanBell> any other things we should be thinking about doing at this time?

 19:26:14 <Tm_T> AlanBell: should we use UDS as a possibility to discuss with canonical about the use of irc channels on marketing or was this sorted adequately already?

 19:27:06 <AlanBell> well that was one reason for the creation of #ubuntu-discuss

 19:27:24 <AlanBell> and yes, I would like to use UDS to get the word out to canonical that they can send people there

 19:29:44 <AlanBell> any more items to add?

 19:29:59 <Pici> nope ;)

 19:30:12 <AlanBell> things can always be discussed at any time in -ops and -ops-team if people have items to raise

 19:30:16 <AlanBell> but for now . . .

 19:30:19 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
