{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Maverick development (jib)
** Alpha1 milestone ISO testing (ttx)
** Alpha2 subcycle status (ttx)
** Community specs
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** No progress on pv-ops yet due to vacation
** Bug:587893: linux-image-2.6.34-5-virtual is oversized, results in oversized server ISO
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Papercuts selection for Alpha2 subcycle (ttx)
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Action points from the last meeting =====

* sommer to try to move server doc spec to Ubuntu specs: DONE
* ttx to document (or delegate documentation of ) package stack names: DONE

===== Alpha1 milestone =====

The Alpha1 milestone will be released Thursday. Please participate to <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all|Server ISO testing]]</nowiki> to get as much coverage as we can. Current known issues include an oversized CD, due to bug Bug:587893. smoser will publish cloud images soon. Between now and Alpha1 we are in soft freeze and should not upload major changes that could impact negatively the milestone.

ACTION: all to run ISO testing coverage on alpha1

ACTION: smoser to ensure cloud images make it to the alpha1 iso tracker

===== Alpha2 subcycle status =====

The Canonical team tracks progress on their specs <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html|here]]</nowiki>. Please remember to keep your work items and Status: line updated in the blueprints, at least once per week before Monday EOB. See the WorkItemsHowto for more info. ttx will reset the trends line tomorrow to something more useful to track progress.

UbuntuSpec:server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades needs some attention since there is some work separation between smoser and jjohansen, and a more detailed work items plan is desired.

On the community side, Mail & cluster stack look in great shape. jib asked to seperate items out for before & after feature freeze to help track things. The doc spec is also in good shape.

ACTION: smoser to coordinate with jjohansen and ttx to provide a more detailed work item overview for server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team =====

hggdh verified bug Bug:565101, which should go to -updates as soon as possible. Additionally, he also did a quick test of bug Bug:586134, and seems to work with 512 loop devices configured. There might be a delay in the Eucalyptus SRU due to a potential regression on bug Bug:566793.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team =====

jjohansen is in vacation, so no progress yet on pv-ops. SpamapS mentioned that the proposed PTRACE changes would also affect negatively the ops population, and will chime in on the thread to make that concern known.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team =====

Lucid serverguide PDF is available on h.u.c. For next week's meeting, sommer will present new sections for which the doc team will need input from the server team.

ACTION: sommer to present list of sections that need input from server team

===== Papercuts selection for Alpha2 subcycle =====

We currently have <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/papercuts-nominations|14 bugs nominated]]</nowiki> for a desired total of 16 targets, so choosing between them should be easy. Last-minute nominations can still occur since ttx will proceed with formal selection tomorrow morning. You can also start assigning yourself to those you're interested in.

===== Weekly SRU review =====

SRU nominations were reviewed. The tracker for the new SRU process is under work, with an early view accessible <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/|here]]</nowiki>.

===== Open Discussion =====

UbuntuSpec:server-maverick-openldap-dit was reviewed and approved. EtienneG brought up the question of which iSCSI target is being chosen for main/UEC: tgt is the answer, and ccheney will work on the MIR, and zul on the upstartification.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 8th at 18:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:02] <jiboumans> #startmeeting
[19:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:02. The chair is jiboumans.
[19:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:02] <jiboumans> thanks all for joining
[19:02] <ttx> niemeyer: o/
[19:02] <jiboumans> scribe today will be ttx, thanks for volunteering
[19:02] <niemeyer> Yo!
[19:02] <niemeyer> :-)
[19:02] <ttx> yay yay
[19:02] <sommer> o//
[19:03] <jiboumans> experiencing a bit of lag with irc, sorry for the delay
[19:03] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Action points from the last meeting
[19:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action points from the last meeting
[19:04] <jiboumans> sommer to try to move server doc spec to Ubuntu specs
[19:04] <sommer> done :)
[19:04] <jiboumans> awesome :)
[19:04] <jiboumans> ttx to document (or delegate documentation of ) package stack names
[19:04] <jiboumans> sommer++
[19:04] <ttx> done on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
[19:04] <jiboumans> ttx++
[19:04] <jiboumans> no other actions outstanding afaik
[19:04] <ccheney> hello
[19:04] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Maverick development (jib)
[19:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development (jib)
[19:05] <halvors> hi!
[19:05] <jiboumans> as you all know, we've just kicked off the maverick dev cycle
[19:05] <halvors> When was the meeting today?
[19:05] <jiboumans> and we've got alpha1 isos coming up
[19:05] <mathiaz> halvors: are you referring to the EMEA board meeting?
[19:05] <jiboumans> ttx, that's your topic i believe
[19:05] <mathiaz> halvors: if so - it was 2 hours ago
[19:05] <ttx> yes, we have deliverables up at http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[19:06] <mathiaz> halvors: this is now the Ubuntu Server team meeting
[19:06] <ttx> I smoketested yesterdays ISO, it seems to work, filed a bug that got fixed since
[19:06] <halvors> the africa/europe meeting
[19:06] <halvors> 20:00 UTC
[19:06] <ttx> the main issue being the oversized CDs, will come back to that later
[19:06] <halvors> it was 2 hours ago ?
[19:06] <ttx> so please run some ISO testing coverage
[19:06] <Daviey> halvors: 20:00 UTC is in 2 hours.
[19:07] <halvors> yes
[19:07] <ttx> smoser: we don't havce cloud images yet
[19:07] <halvors> then it is 10:00
[19:07] <jiboumans> [ACTION] all to run ISO testing coverage on alpha1
[19:07] <smoser> ew don't ?
[19:07] <halvors> for me
[19:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  all to run ISO testing coverage on alpha1
[19:07] <ttx> smoser: not on the tracker, at least
[19:07] <smoser> ah.
[19:07] <smoser> ok.
[19:07] <mathiaz> halvors: may be - we're in the middle of another meeting now - I'd suggest to come back when the meeting board is running
[19:07] <jiboumans> [ACTION] smoser to ensure cloud images make it to the alpha1 iso tracker
[19:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  smoser to ensure cloud images make it to the alpha1 iso tracker
[19:07] <ttx> we don't need 100% coverage for alphaÂµ1, but the more the merrier
[19:08] <ttx> that's all.
[19:08] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Alpha2 subcycle status (ttx)
[19:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Alpha2 subcycle status (ttx)
[19:08] <ttx> (we are in soft freeze btw, so don't land anything massive)
[19:08] <ttx> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html
[19:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html
[19:08] <mathiaz> ttx: are the images registered in the iso tracker?
[19:08] <mathiaz> ttx: alpha1 images?
[19:08] <ttx> mathiaz: define "images"
[19:09] <mathiaz> ttx: hm - isos
[19:09] <ttx> mathiaz: yes
[19:09] <ttx> Ubuntu Server amd64 (20100601.1)
[19:09] <ttx> Ubuntu Server i386 (20100601.1)
[19:09] <mathiaz> ttx: hm - I haven't received the standard email though
[19:09] <jiboumans> the above link is 'the' place where we track progress on our specs, so please remember to keep your work items and Status: line updated in the blueprints. For the howto, please see:
[19:09] <ttx> mathiaz: me neither
[19:09] <jiboumans> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WorkItemsHowto
[19:09] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WorkItemsHowto
[19:10] <ttx> Please also update status for your specs, ideally before the meeting
[19:10] <mathiaz> ttx: that should be fixed
[19:10] <mathiaz> ttx: as this is how I get notified about new isos needed testing
[19:10] <ttx> mathiaz: ping ara about it, maybe it's a one-time alpha1 special
[19:10] <ttx> Status updating is done by updating the "Status" section in the whiteboard
[19:10] <ttx> I've set it to "Not updated yet" across the board
[19:11] <jiboumans> same procedure as lucid, so nothing new to learn here
[19:11]  * SpamapS just realized that meant the Status: for the work itesm tracker, and not the blueprint status.. :-P
[19:11] <jiboumans> remember to keep it updated; MONDAY EOB at the latest
[19:11] <ttx> SpamapS: I was reiterating for you :)
[19:11] <jiboumans> ttx: any particular specs that need attention right now?
[19:12] <ttx> jiboumans: server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades
[19:12] <SpamapS> ttx: ty
[19:12] <ttx> needs some work separation between smoser and jjohansen
[19:12] <ttx> and a more detailed work items plan
[19:12] <jiboumans> ttx: jjohansen is on vacation this week, so we should follow up by email as well
[19:12] <ttx> jiboumans: yep
[19:12] <jiboumans> smoser, can you take that on?
[19:12] <ttx> otherwise none of the prio1 specs have work items burnt yet
[19:13] <smoser> i pinged with jjohansen today. he's aware of the spec.  i will follow up.
[19:13] <jiboumans> [ACTION] smoser to coordinate with jjohansen and ttx to provide a more detailed work item overview for server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades
[19:13] <jiboumans> ttx: any others?
[19:13] <MootBot> ACTION received:  smoser to coordinate with jjohansen and ttx to provide a more detailed work item overview for server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades
[19:13] <ttx> no, let's get items burnt !
[19:13] <ttx> (as an aside, i'll reset the trends line tomorrow)
[19:13] <jiboumans> ok, i'd like to look at 4 specs quickly though;
[19:13] <ttx> (so please get your work items in before :)
[19:14] <jiboumans> ivoks, roaksoax, scottk: mail & cluster stack look in great shape. I've asked in the whiteboard to seperate items out for before & after feature freeze though to help us track things
[19:15] <jiboumans> sommer, ttx, mathiaz: i wanted to double check you're happy with the docs spec as is now
[19:15] <ScottK> OK.
[19:15] <jiboumans> the review's extensive with feedback requests and it'd be great if we could mark those off
[19:15] <sommer> I think I addressed the comments on that one, but if not let me know
[19:15] <jiboumans> sommer: it looks good to me too, just verifying before i set it to 'approved'
[19:16] <sommer> coolio
[19:16] <ttx> jiboumans: also note that the specs fully assigned to hggdh don't appear in the chart
[19:16] <ttx> since they appear in canonical-qa instead
[19:16] <jiboumans> ttx: let's follow up with pitti to figure out how we can have them show up
[19:16] <jiboumans> alright, let's move on
[19:17] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:17] <mathiaz> server-maverick-serverguide-updates: looks good to me
[19:17] <ttx> stgraber: haven't seen a spice spec, mjeanson wanted to file one ?
[19:17] <hggdh> bug 565101 has been verified, should go to -updates as soon as possible
[19:17] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 565101 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Lucid) "[SRU] [scalability] walrus reports java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/565101
[19:17] <ttx> server-maverick-serverguide-updates: looks good to me
[19:17] <jiboumans> sommer: you may need to reformat the 'work items:' line as it expects a milestone after it if anything
[19:18] <sommer> ah, will do
[19:19] <hggdh> additionally, I have done a quick test of bug 586134, and seems to work with 512 loop devices configured
[19:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 586134 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "SC: Maximum number of loop devices should be configurable" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/586134
[19:19] <jiboumans> hggdh: the previous number was... 256?
[19:19] <hggdh> jiboumans: the previous was 32
[19:19] <jiboumans> heh
[19:20] <jiboumans> any other questions for hggdh/QA?
[19:20] <kirkland> hggdh: i'll get an SRU out, as soon as the current one in proposed (for 6 weeks) gets promoted
[19:20] <ttx> hggdh: haven't looked into the -community and -qa-workflow specs, did you start with them ?
[19:21] <mathiaz> kirkland: what's required to get the one in -proposed copied to -updates?
[19:21] <jiboumans> hggdh: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-maverick-qa-workflow should probably have it's gobby notes moved to a wikispec instead
[19:21] <kirkland> hggdh: i think you had a todo of verifying one of them as fixed, so that the promotion could take place
[19:21] <kirkland> mathiaz: These bugs need to be fix-verified:
[19:21] <hggdh> kirkland: I verified it, should I change a tag there?
[19:21] <kirkland> https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/565101
[19:21] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 565101 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Lucid) "[SRU] [scalability] walrus reports java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space" [High,Fix committed]
[19:21] <kirkland> https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/567371
[19:21] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 567371 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Lucid) "[SRU] [scalability] NC does not detach created pthreads in KVM driver" [High,Fix committed]
[19:21] <kirkland> https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/566793
[19:21] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 566793 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Lucid) "[SRU] euca-get-console-output gives first 64k of output, not most recent" [Medium,Fix committed]
[19:22] <kirkland> hggdh: i stand corrected ... you updated the bug on May 28
[19:22] <mathiaz> hggdh: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates
[19:22] <mathiaz> hggdh: ^^ there is a section about verification
[19:22] <hggdh> mathiaz: thanks
[19:22] <mathiaz> hggdh: once the verification has been done, tags should be updated
[19:22] <smoser> kirkland, 566793 is either not "fixed" or caused regression.
[19:23] <smoser> see most recent comments there.
[19:23] <kirkland> smoser: that's very troubling
[19:23] <Daviey> bug #566793
[19:23] <kirkland> smoser: i see your comment there
[19:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 566793 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Lucid) "[SRU] euca-get-console-output gives first 64k of output, not most recent" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/566793
[19:24] <kirkland> this is getting complicated, as we have several more eucalyptus SRUs queued
[19:25] <kirkland> jiboumans: i'm not sure what else to say about this
[19:25] <jiboumans> kirkland: should we move this to a different forum?
[19:25] <kirkland> jiboumans: sure
[19:25] <jiboumans> kirkland: alright, let's move on
[19:26] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:26] <jiboumans> jjohansen is not with us today, so any questions will be relayed through notes/email
[19:26] <ttx> (from jjohansen) No progress on pv-ops yet due to vacation
[19:26] <jiboumans> anything pressing that needs to be on the kernel teams radar?
[19:26] <ttx> I raised bug 587893
[19:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 587893 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "linux-image-2.6.34-5-virtual is oversized, results in oversized server ISO" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/587893
[19:26] <ttx> -virtual takes up the same size as -server now
[19:26] <SpamapS> jiboumans: the recent ptrace restrictions are troubling to me..
[19:26] <ttx> resulting in an oversized server ISO
[19:27] <jiboumans> SpamapS: could you elaborate?
[19:27] <ttx> it's on the kernel team radar, rtg is looking at it
[19:27] <SpamapS> jiboumans: from an ops standpoint, not being able to attach to mysqld/httpd/etc would be disastrous
[19:27] <jiboumans> SpamapS: i wasn't aware of any changes in that area. what are you referring to exactly?
[19:27] <ttx> My understanding is atht it's just a sysctl away ?
[19:28] <SpamapS> jiboumans: it was relayed to ubuntu-devel recently, processes won't be able to ptrace anything that isn't their direct child
[19:28] <SpamapS> jiboumans: there will be a sysctl, yes
[19:28] <ttx> /proc/sys/kernel/ptrace_scope
[19:29] <ttx> SpamapS: you should bring your concerns to the thread
[19:29] <SpamapS> +1 for security, -10 for operational efficiency. I'm not sure if its worth being on by default.
[19:29] <jiboumans> SpamapS: if there's no way to debug properly in your opinoin with this change, we should take it up on the list
[19:29] <mathiaz> SpamapS: if you have any concerns, make sure to let it be known in the thread
[19:29] <SpamapS> yes I think I'll do that.
[19:29] <jiboumans> SpamapS: consider this encouragement to do exactly that :)
[19:29] <ttx> discussing them here won't help very much, it's outside the reach of our team anyway
[19:29] <jiboumans> any other questions/issues around the kernel?
[19:30] <ttx> SpamapS: we could agree to unset it on "servers" but I'm not sure I want to have that discussion again
[19:30] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:30] <jiboumans> sommer: o/
[19:31] <sommer> not sure I have much... Lucid serverguide PDF is available on h.u.c
[19:31] <ttx> sommer: could you present new sections for which you'll need input from us at some point ?
[19:31] <jiboumans> sommer: if you don't have 'm prepped, adding them to next weeks meeting also works. I'd like to make sure you have all the input you need to move forward
[19:32] <sommer> sure, that may be a good goal for the next meeting
[19:32] <ttx> sommer: great, thanks
[19:32] <jiboumans> [ACTION] sommer to present list of sections that need input from server team
[19:32] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to present list of sections that need input from server team
[19:32] <jiboumans> thanks sommer
[19:33] <jiboumans> any questions about the docs?
[19:33] <sommer> don't think so
[19:33] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Papercuts selection for Alpha2 subcycle (ttx)
[19:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Papercuts selection for Alpha2 subcycle (ttx)
[19:33] <ttx> Nomination period for alpha2 subcycle is not over
[19:33] <ttx> The nominations for the papercuts alpha2 subcycle are here: http://tinyurl.com/papercuts-nominations
[19:33] <ttx> We had a target of 16 bugs for that cycle
[19:34] <ttx> only 14 bugs nominated
[19:34] <ttx> so that should make an easy cut
[19:34] <ttx> You still have time for last minute nominations...
[19:34] <ttx> Please have a look at the list off-meeting and let me know if anything there should not be a papercut
[19:35] <ttx> otherwise I'll take them all :)
[19:35] <ttx> You can also assign yourself to those you're interested in
[19:35] <jiboumans> [ACTION] all to review http://tinyurl.com/papercuts-nominations and weed out non-papercuts
[19:35] <MootBot> ACTION received:  all to review http://tinyurl.com/papercuts-nominations and weed out non-papercuts
[19:35] <ttx> after that, I'll start randomly assigning them to people :)
[19:35] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (mathiaz)
[19:35] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (mathiaz)
[19:35] <jiboumans> thanks ttx
[19:36] <mathiaz> two bugs have been nominated: bug 585110
[19:36] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 585110 in vm-builder (Ubuntu) "vmbuilder 0.11.3 fails to find ec2-init file" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/585110
[19:36] <mathiaz> bug 585522
[19:36] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 585522 in ntp (Ubuntu) "Somes bad var values and old name calling in lucid" [Low,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/585522
[19:36] <ttx> (note: i'll close the alpha2-papercuts list tomorrow morning, so nominations should be done today EOB)
[19:37] <jiboumans> ttx: can you send out a last call to the mailing list too?
[19:37] <ttx> jiboumans: I think it's too late for that. A call with the deadline was in yesterdays ubuntu weekly news
[19:37] <mathiaz> I think both bugs should be declined as they fit the SRU critiria
[19:37] <hggdh> mathiaz: I think 585522 should not be nominated
[19:37] <ttx> theoretically the deadline was... this meeting
[19:38] <jiboumans> ttx: that works too :)
[19:38] <ttx> since we are not as 14, I give a few extra minutes to the meeting crowd :)
[19:38] <ttx> not at 16, I mean
[19:38] <ttx> mathiaz: ack
[19:39] <mathiaz> anything worth on http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html?
[19:39] <zul> the mtx bug
[19:39] <ttx> bug 551901 is already under way, I pushed it today
[19:39] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 551901 in krb5 (Ubuntu Lucid) "likewise-open fails to join Windows 2000 SP4 domain" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/551901
[19:39] <mathiaz> zul: for an SRU?
[19:40] <zul> mathiaz: yes
[19:40] <mathiaz> zul: it's annoying - not the end of the world
[19:40] <ttx> I'm with mathiaz here
[19:40] <zul> okies
[19:41] <ttx> zul: there are far more interesting SRUs to push :)
[19:41] <zul> ttx: heh
[19:41] <mathiaz> anything else worth SRUing?
[19:41] <SpamapS> bug 293258 seems worth SRU given that it may have security implications.
[19:41] <mathiaz> from http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[19:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 293258 in mysql-dfsg-5.1 (Ubuntu) "mysql user has home directory writable by mysqld" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/293258
[19:41] <zul> SpamapS: i dont know the implications of pushing that back to lucid
[19:41] <mathiaz> SpamapS: if it has security implication than the security team should handle it
[19:41] <kirkland> mathiaz: there are 2 eucalyptus bugs
[19:42] <kirkland> mathiaz: as mentioned before, sort of blocked on getting the lucid-proposed eucalyptus promoted to lucid-updates
[19:42] <ttx> kirkland: I suspect you already nominated them for Lucid ?
[19:42] <kirkland> ttx: yup
[19:42] <ttx> kirkland: then you're good :)
[19:42] <mathiaz> SpamapS: the security team seems to be aware of the bug
[19:43] <mathiaz> on the topic of the sru process, zul has been working on the implementation
[19:43] <SpamapS> mmk. :)
[19:43] <jiboumans> zul++
[19:43] <jiboumans> mathiaz, zul, anything to show publicly yet?
[19:43] <mathiaz> so I think we'll be able to move to the new process soon
[19:44] <zul> sure: http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/
[19:44] <mathiaz> jiboumans: http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/
[19:44] <ttx> mathiaz/zul: would be good to see some action on the work items for sru-process, then :P
[19:44] <jiboumans> [LINK] http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/
[19:44] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/
[19:44] <jiboumans> also that: ^ ;)
[19:44] <zul> ttx: yeah sorry
[19:44] <mathiaz> zul: are your scripts available in a bzr branch somewhere?
[19:44] <zul> mathiaz: not yet they will be
[19:45] <mathiaz> zul: ok - could you please push them as soon as possible?
[19:45] <mathiaz> zul: release early, release often :)
[19:45] <zul> of course
[19:45] <mathiaz> that's all for the SRU review
[19:45] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:45] <jiboumans> any other business?
[19:45] <hggdh> yes
[19:46] <sommer> this spec https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-maverick-openldap-dit approval ?
[19:46] <hggdh> I have tested ebs with EtienneG's UEC rig, but we will need our own
[19:47] <Daviey> hggdh: we might be able to organise timeshare in OEM's rig.
[19:47] <mathiaz> sommer: you don't need to have approval to start working on a spec ;)
[19:47] <mathiaz> sommer: the WI look good
[19:47] <hggdh> Daviey: good. We will have to be careful, though, I just blew EtienneG's rig to space
[19:47] <jiboumans> sommer: i think you took care of the feedback, so let me hit the Button(tm)
[19:47] <jiboumans> but yes,it's approved
[19:47] <sommer> mathiaz: I know, but just wanted to get some time of official nod
[19:47] <EtienneG> zul, has the iSCSI target question came up earlier?  (sorry, was not paying much attention)
[19:47] <Daviey> gilir: destruction testing++
[19:48] <zul> EtienneG: no it hasnt
[19:48] <EtienneG> hggdh, good to know!
[19:48] <sommer> jiboumans: thanks :)
[19:48] <mathiaz> sommer: seems like jiboumans is about to hit the magic button!
[19:48] <hggdh> EtienneG: oh, sorry, I did not tell you? ;-)
[19:48] <EtienneG> zul, ok then, I am bringing it up then
[19:48] <zul> EtienneG: now would be a good time to bring it up ;)
[19:48] <EtienneG> hggdh, well, yes, over the week-end, right?
[19:48] <jiboumans> sommer: you're the assignee as well right?
[19:49] <sommer> yeppers
[19:49] <hggdh> EtienneG: right
[19:49] <jiboumans> sommer: targeted for A3 as it needs to be done before Feature Freeze
[19:49] <EtienneG> jiboumans, I vaguely remember the matter iSCSI target came up during the seed review at UDS-M, but somehow it is nowhere to be found in the Gobby doc
[19:50] <EtienneG> basically, we discussed if an iSCSI target in main would be desirable, and which
[19:50] <ccheney> there were some problems with gobby notes being lost, i don't know if that included partial loss though
[19:50] <jiboumans> EtienneG: i remember the thread on the mailing list
[19:50] <EtienneG> the consensus seems to be around tgt, which has an iSCSI target daemon
[19:50] <mathiaz> EtienneG: do you have a specific suggestion?
[19:50] <EtienneG> jiboumans, was it discussed at UDS, or I am smoking crack?
[19:50] <mathiaz> EtienneG: is tgt the best option for now?
[19:51] <EtienneG> mathiaz, tgt would be the best option for me, yes
[19:51] <jiboumans> EtienneG: like i said, i dont remember it at UDS (then again, i wasnt in all conversations), but i do recall the thread on the list
[19:51] <zul> EtienneG: i remeber talking to you about it after the session
[19:51] <EtienneG> people suggested SCST, but it is not packaged yet
[19:51] <jiboumans> EtienneG: the part i do remember is Eucalytpus folks saying they need one as well
[19:51] <ttx> istr we discussed it during euca-next-steps
[19:51] <kirkland> mathiaz: EtienneG: tgt is what we're pursuing for UEC/Eucalyptus
[19:51] <EtienneG> zul, that must be it
[19:51] <EtienneG> jiboumans, and unless I am mistaken, they have settled on tgt
[19:51] <jiboumans> kirkland: is it a fair target for the UEC specs or should this go Elsewhere
[19:52] <kirkland> jiboumans: UEC is probably fine
[19:52] <kirkland> jiboumans: i'll add a work item
[19:52] <jiboumans> kirkland++ thanks
[19:52] <kirkland> [ccheney] MIR tgt: TODO
[19:52] <ccheney> kirkland, ok :)
[19:52] <jiboumans> ok, any other other business?
[19:52] <EtienneG> tgt needs an upstart job, there is already bug and I assigned it to zul
[19:53] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:53] <jiboumans> Next meeting is: Tuesday June 8th at 18:00 UTC
[19:53] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:53] <jiboumans> thanks all for attending
[19:53] <ttx> \o/
[19:53] <jiboumans> #endmeeting
[19:53] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:53.
</pre>
