{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ACTION: mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
** ACTION: smoser to get skaet info on how to publish EC2 images
** ACTION: Everyone to celebrate the 10.10.10 release in their own unique ways
* Postmortem for Maverick (ttx)
** Close your specs
** SRUs (Bug:658227, Bug:600174)
* Natty development
** Opening: Syncs and Merges (ttx)
** Natty specs preparation (jib)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-10-19 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* ACTION: '''mathiaz''' to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community (carry over)
* ACTION: '''ALL''' to mark maverick assigned specs as "Implemented" or Deferred
* ACTION: '''jjohansen''' to look into virtual kernel bug status (Bug:658461)
* ACTION: '''jjohansen''' to look into t1.micro java lockup bug (Bug:634487)

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
** ACTION: mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community
*** mathiaz was unable to attend, action point carried over to next week
** ACTION: smoser to get skaet info on how to publish EC2 images
*** DONE ec2 images were published along with the rest of 10.10
** ACTION: Everyone to celebrate the 10.10.10 release in their own unique ways
*** DONE emphatically
===== Postmortem for Maverick (ttx) =====
** Close your specs
*** ACTION: '''ALL''' to mark maverick assigned specs as "Implemented" or Deferred
** SRUs (Bug:658227, Bug:600174)
*** Everyone should keep a close eye on high priority bug candidates for SRU to maverick.
===== Natty development =====
** Opening: Syncs and Merges (ttx)
*** Natty will open soon, now is the time to start looking at merges
** Natty specs preparation (jib)
*** Idea pool has plenty - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/NattyIdeaPool
*** Create blueprints and move ideas to the UDS session list there if it warrants a session
*** Get session blueprints in by End of Week
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
** QA and BugSquad are phasing out the 'regression-potential' tag, and it should not be used anymore. regression-release, regression-proposed, or regression-updates should be used to signal even potential regressions.
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====
** Phantom load bug fix in lucid has not landed yet but should soon
** ACTION: '''jjohansen''' to look into virtual kernel bug status (Bug:658461)
** ACTION: '''jjohansen''' to look into t1.micro java lockup bug (Bug:634487)
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====
** sommer was not in attendance
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0) =====
** Reminder that this is UbuntuOpenWeek
** kim0 has been talking with some community members and getting them fired up about contributing, with 8 potential contributors. He would appreciate volunteers for mentoring them.
===== Open Discussion =====
** RoAkSoAx has an HA UEC-CLC setup using cluster stack (pacemaker, heartbeat), he would like to discuss this further at UDS during a cluster stack focused session.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday 2010-10-19 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:00] <SpamapS> #startmeeting
[19:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:00. The chair is SpamapS.
[19:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:00] <SpamapS> I see no action points from the previous meeting, so we'll move forward to...
[19:00] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Postmortem for Maverick (ttx)
[19:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Postmortem for Maverick (ttx)
[19:00] <ttx> hm, there was some action points though
[19:01] <ttx>   * ACTION: mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the
[19:01] <ttx> puppet community
[19:01] <ttx>   * ACTION: smoser to get skaet info on how to publish EC2 images
[19:01] <ttx>   * ACTION:  Everyone to celebrate the 10.10.10 release in their own unique ways
[19:01] <SpamapS> Right, they didn't make it into the agenda...
[19:01] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] review action points from previous meeting
[19:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  review action points from previous meeting
[19:01] <ttx> SpamapS: probably the chair didn't copy them there :P
[19:02] <SpamapS> I didn't see an email from mathiaz..
[19:02] <SpamapS> and he is at hadoop world
[19:02] <jiboumans_> let's follow up with him afterwards
[19:02] <ttx> seeing fat elephants
[19:02] <SpamapS> so will carry that one forward unless somebody else saw the email?
[19:02] <jiboumans_> i didn't see the mail either
[19:02] <SpamapS> [ACTION] mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community (carry over)
[19:02] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to send out a call for ideas on ubuntu to the puppet community (carry over)
[19:02] <kim0> can I help with that
[19:03]  * smoser did get skaet info on how to do that, but still had to wake up sunday morning to help (due to my own mistakes). so 'Done'
[19:03] <SpamapS> smoser: assuming you were able to instruct skaet on EC2 image publishing :)
[19:03] <SpamapS> sweet.
[19:03] <ttx> kim0: maybe, see with mathiaz
[19:03] <Daviey> smoser: Was kinda scary at one point :)
[19:03] <ttx> a bit scary.
[19:03] <smoser> bah
[19:03] <smoser> not scary
[19:03] <smoser> everything was under control :)
[19:03] <SpamapS> I celebrated by wearing my 101010 shirt and yelling at the TV whenever the Cowboys fumbled.
[19:04] <ttx> SpamapS: you got a 101010 shirt ?
[19:04] <zul> i killed a bird to celebrate
[19:04] <SpamapS> ttx: not a 1 or 0, an old 101010 shirt from the 2005 Sysadmin of The Year Contest (I was nominated.. did not win.. too nerdy I presume)
[19:04] <ttx> ah
[19:04] <SpamapS> Ok, moving on
[19:05] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Postmortem for Maverick (ttx)
[19:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Postmortem for Maverick (ttx)
[19:05] <ttx> So you should have a look at your Maverick specs, and close them as "Implemented" or "Deferred"
[19:06] <SpamapS> [ACTION] ALL to mark maverick assigned specs as "Implemented" or Deferred
[19:06] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ALL to mark maverick assigned specs as "Implemented" or Deferred
[19:06] <ttx> also we need to keep a special eye on Maverick bugs
[19:06] <ttx> I expect people to stumble upon critical bugs once the release is out
[19:06] <ttx> so we need to stay ready for SRUs
[19:06] <ttx> I already noted two candidates
[19:07] <ttx> Bug 658227 and bug 600174
[19:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 658227 in openldap (Ubuntu) "upgrade process does not upgrade underlying BDB format from 4.7 to 4.8 (so slapd aborts with "Program version 4.8 doesn't match environment version 4.7" error message)" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/658227
[19:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 600174 in axis2c (Ubuntu Maverick) "axis2c fails to build from source on maverick/i386" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/600174
[19:07] <ttx> The first one being kinda urgent
[19:07] <ttx> I hoped mathiaz would be around to pick it up
[19:07] <ttx> but he is not, so it's free game
[19:08] <Daviey> Second one.. really needs 'fixing'.. but i was going to propose not being uploaded unless axis2c needs uploading for another reason
[19:08] <ttx> Daviey: agreed
[19:08] <Daviey> ie, backport from natty i guess.
[19:08] <ttx> anything else that you saw in daily triage that you think is a maverick regression ?
[19:08] <Daviey> no
[19:08] <ttx> if not, that's all for mavreick, rest in peace, long live Natty
[19:09] <Daviey> \o/
[19:09] <SpamapS> There's a comment on bug 607646 that claims it may have caused a regression, but no actual bug report with details that I've seen yet
[19:09] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 607646 in php5 (Ubuntu) "Segmentation fault in PHP5 with pgsql module" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/607646
[19:10] <ttx> SpamapS: ok, you can move on
[19:10] <SpamapS> Ok, on to Natty?
[19:10] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Natty development
[19:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty development
[19:11] <ttx> Natty will open soon
[19:11] <ttx> and with it the season of syncs/merges
[19:11] <ttx> that's the process of merging the changes in debian, or syncing to the version in debian
[19:11] <ttx> if the newcomers need any light on the process, please ask one of the old-timers.
[19:11] <ttx> Deferring to jiboumans for Natty planning
[19:12] <RoAkSoAx> will a list of merges be published?
[19:12] <SpamapS> From what I understand, maverick had a fairly low percentage of pending merges completed.. so we may have a big backlog.
[19:12] <ttx> SpamapS: server looked not too bad.
[19:12] <zul> RoAkSoAx: merges.ubuntu.com
[19:12] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx: nothing server specific, but https://merges.ubuntu.com is always a good resource.
[19:12] <ttx> RoAkSoAx: in MoM, then maybe we'll come up with a server seed crossection
[19:13] <RoAkSoAx> lo. i know that but I meant server specific merges
[19:13] <zul> RoAkSoAx: i also have a python script if you want
[19:13] <SpamapS> 298 outstanding merges in main
[19:13] <RoAkSoAx>  :)
[19:13] <zul> SpamapS: we arent doing all that
[19:13] <zul> ;)
[19:13] <RoAkSoAx> zul: for server specific?
[19:13] <zul> RoAkSoAx: yep
[19:13] <RoAkSoAx> zul: ok cool:)
[19:14] <zul> RoAkSoAx: just bug me about it after the meeting ill try to find it for you
[19:14] <RoAkSoAx> ok thanks :)
[19:14] <ttx> SpamapS: moving on
[19:14] <SpamapS> Oh no specs?
[19:15] <ttx> SpamapS: that's jiboumans's subject
[19:15] <ttx> though I can fill in if he dropped
[19:15] <SpamapS> jiboumans_: Natty specs preparation (jib)
[19:15] <jiboumans_> The time for creating blueprints for UDS sessions is upon us; looking at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/NattyIdeaPool we have a lot to go on. Right now, only blueprints for topics that you think warrant discussion at UDS are needed to be created; try to group similar topics in a way that makes a good session and list them as part of the "UDS" Section under the right track and remove them from the idea pool. That should be doable for everyone somew
[19:15] <jiboumans_> this week I think.
[19:15] <ttx> ELINETOOLONG
[19:16] <jiboumans_> try to group similar topics in a way that makes a good session and list them as part of the "UDS" Section under the right track and remove them from the idea pool. That should be doable for everyone somewhere this week I think.
[19:16] <jiboumans_> Any items left in the idea pool after this week are ideally then items that don't need discussion and we can move those to blueprints at a later date just to track implementation. Any questions about next steps?
[19:16] <SpamapS> Ok, going once...
[19:17] <SpamapS> jiboumans_: thanks, moving on..
[19:17] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:17] <hggdh> ok
[19:17] <hggdh> we are now phasing out the 'regression-potential' tag
[19:18] <hggdh> please use only regression-release or regression-proposed or regression-updates as needed
[19:18] <ttx> ok
[19:18] <ttx> who looks at those ?
[19:19] <hggdh> we  -- QA/bugSquad will look at all current bugs set with -potential, and will update them
[19:19] <ttx> ack
[19:19] <hggdh> the docs and the LP greasemonkey scripts will be updated also
[19:20] <hggdh> apart from that, nothing new on the western front
[19:20] <SpamapS> Anything else for QA?
[19:20] <SpamapS> On to the kernel then..
[19:20] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:20] <jjohansen> I don't have anything I want to bring up
[19:20] <jjohansen> smoser: what do you have for me :)
[19:21] <smoser> hm..
[19:21] <smoser> 2 things.
[19:21] <Daviey> heh
[19:21] <smoser> 1. lucid load, i've beeen promised a fix like 2 weeks ago
[19:21] <jjohansen> is that still not in?
[19:21] <smoser> (ok, promised was a strong word, but given suggestion that it would be fixed, i relayed in bug)
[19:21] <smoser> there is no udpate to the bug
[19:22] <smoser> 2.) maverick issue bug 658461
[19:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 658461 in linux (Ubuntu) "-virtual kernel missing dependent modules (ahci fails to load)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/658461
[19:22] <jjohansen> I did the rebase, that was blocking and tested, and handed it back to brad and steve
[19:22] <smoser> well, there is no 'fix-released' comment in the bug. so i'm not aware of it.
[19:22] <jjohansen> smoser: right I would expect them to update the bug when the pushed the rebase, I'll look into it
[19:23] <smoser> we also have bug 634487. which i would really like to see fixed in lucid and maverick.
[19:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 634487 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "t1.micro instance hangs when installing sun java" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/634487
[19:23] <SpamapS> [ACTION] jjohansen to look into virtual kernel bug status (bug 658461)
[19:23] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jjohansen to look into virtual kernel bug status (bug 658461)
[19:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 658461 in linux (Ubuntu) "-virtual kernel missing dependent modules (ahci fails to load)" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/658461
[19:24] <jjohansen> thanks, I'll try to take a look at it this week
[19:24] <SpamapS> smoser: I thought that was an issue on amazon's side?
[19:24] <SpamapS> or was that the reboot issues?
[19:24] <jjohansen> SpamapS: may be
[19:24] <smoser> SpamapS, there was a data corruption bug on amazon's side for user-data.
[19:24] <SpamapS> ok
[19:24] <smoser> the java bug is definitely a kernel bug (imho).  a user space process makes kernel go crazy
[19:25] <smoser> or crash
[19:25] <SpamapS> ok, anything else?
[19:25] <SpamapS> jjohansen: did you want a single action item to look into both of those bugs?
[19:25] <jjohansen> SpamapS: it could be our kernel trying to use unsupported pv-ops
[19:25] <jjohansen> SpamapS: sure
[19:25] <SpamapS> [ACTION] jjohansen to look into bug 658461
[19:25] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jjohansen to look into bug 658461
[19:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 658461 in linux (Ubuntu) "-virtual kernel missing dependent modules (ahci fails to load)" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/658461
[19:25] <SpamapS> ok I'll fold it in to one in the minutes
[19:26] <zul> pv-ops is funnn..
[19:26] <SpamapS> moving on to documentation
[19:26] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:26] <Daviey> We miss sommer!
=== jsgotangco_ is now known as jsgotangco
[19:26] <SpamapS> oh didn't see that he wasn't here
[19:27] <SpamapS> ok.. did anybody else have documentation issues they'd like to have relayed to sommer?
[19:27] <ttx> SpamapS: no
[19:27] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:27] <kim0> o/
[19:27] <kim0> hey folks .. I'd just like to draw attention of OpenWeek. Find the schedule at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
[19:27] <kim0> I'm giving a cloud basics session tomorrow 16:00UTC, I will be demo'ing cloud-init and answering basic questions. Dustin, will be giving a session after it on deploying web apps to the cloud
[19:27] <kim0> Other than that, I had sent out a call for contributers, I have around 8 people who want to start contributing to ubuntu-server (Yaaay). I'll be talking to Jono tomorrow on how to best get them involved and any mentoring needed. Any volunteers to help with the process are most welcome
[19:27] <kim0> That should be all
[19:28]  * kirkland waves
[19:28] <SpamapS> kim0: thanks!
[19:28] <SpamapS> and now to everyone's favorite topic
[19:28] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:28] <RoAkSoAx> I you haven't read so already, I've successfully setup HA for the UEC-CLC using the cluster stack (pacemaker, heartbeat) and DRBD for replication between CLC's. Everything seems to working as expected. I'll blog post about it later this week when I finish midterms. I'm planning to discuss this at UDS (If Cluster Stack Session get's scheduled).
[19:29]  * SpamapS will be holding a cluster stack session on the beach if it doesn't get scheduled at UDS
[19:30]  * hallyn registers for that one
[19:30] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx: You rock! :)
[19:30] <SpamapS> Indeed.. cluster FTW :)
[19:30] <SpamapS> ok, if nobody else has anything?
[19:31] <SpamapS> Ok then
[19:31] <ttx> SpamapS: according to my wife, I snored last night. Bad news for you.
[19:31] <Daviey> \o/
[19:31] <SpamapS> ttx: only if yours overpowers mine
[19:31] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:31] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:31] <ttx> aaaargh
[19:31] <SpamapS> Next meeting will be Tuesday 2010-10-19 at 1800 UTC - here in #ubuntu-meeting
[19:31] <SpamapS> thanks everyone!
[19:31] <Daviey> o/
[19:32] <SpamapS> #endmeeting
[19:32] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:32.
</pre>
