{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=08&day=29&year=2011&hour=28&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Aug 29th 2011 17:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* kees
* jdstrand
* sbeattie
* micahg
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* bliss
* d1b

=== Not present ===
* mdeslaur

=== Agenda ===
* Review of any previous action items
* Announcements
** tyhicks starts on the Ubuntu Security team today. He will be working on security updates for Ubuntu in general, as well as ecryptfs and other interesting stuff. Welcome!
** mdeslaur is on holiday this week
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Weekly role: triager/community
** continue defining dbus/apparmor tests
** metrics work items as have time
** miscellaneous P&C tasks
** kees
** Weekly role: happy place
** work items
** documentation
** kernel updates
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: happy place
** apparmor work items
** possible update
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates (chromium, firefox 6/maverick)
** patch pilot
** tyhicks
** new hire tasks
** ecryptfs bug and mailing list backlog
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/collectd.html|collectd]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2010/CVE-2010-4336.html|CVE-2010-4336]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/firebird2.1.html|firebird2.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2009/CVE-2009-2620.html|CVE-2009-2620]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/openarena.html|openarena]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2011/CVE-2011-1412.html|CVE-2011-1412]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2011/CVE-2011-2764.html|CVE-2011-2764]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/lxr.html|lxr]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2010/CVE-2010-1738.html|CVE-2010-1738]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/cakephp.html|cakephp]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2010/CVE-2010-4335.html|CVE-2010-4335]]</nowiki>

* Miscellaneous and Questions
** jdstrand> jjohansen: is there anything specific you need from me at this point to assist with dbus/apparmor?
** jjohansen will have packages for testing soon

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-08-29-17.01.moin.txt
