{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===
TZ UTC -5
<pre>
(11:10:13 AM) heno: #startmeeting
(11:10:14 AM) MootBot: Meeting started at 16:10. The chair is heno.
(11:10:14 AM) MootBot: Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
(11:10:28 AM) heno: Welcome to the QA team meeting
(11:10:40 AM) heno: The agenda is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam
(11:10:47 AM) heno: (very short)
(11:11:31 AM) heno: If you've come for the  platform meeting see #ubuntu-platform/freenode
(11:12:14 AM) heno: [TOPIC] Spec status - all Hardy specs to be finalised by 2007-11-21 (tomorrow)
(11:12:14 AM) MootBot: New Topic:  Spec status - all Hardy specs to be finalised by 2007-11-21 (tomorrow)
(11:12:34 AM) liw: 2007-11-21 was tomorrow yesterday, i.e., it is today
(11:13:10 AM) heno: liw: you're right, my typo
(11:13:21 AM) heno: should be Thursd 22nd
(11:13:39 AM) ogasawara: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs/DeveloperWeatherReport
(11:13:57 AM) ogasawara: let me know if you guys have any more feedback
(11:14:04 AM) heno: fixed in wiki
(11:14:32 AM) heno: ogasawara: looks good to me, and steve seems happy with it too
(11:14:47 AM) heno: So I'll go ahead and approve
(11:14:52 AM) ogasawara: heno: great, thanks
(11:15:24 AM) heno: I havent followed up as well as I should on spec writing the past few days, sorry, been a bit ill
(11:16:00 AM) heno: My form seems to be returning now though, fortunately
(11:16:12 AM) liw: my two specs are https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs/DesktopAutomatedTests and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs/SelfTestingDesktop -- is there anything more I should do about them?
(11:18:03 AM) heno: liw: they both need review still. Please ask someone on the review team to look at SelfTestingDesktop
(11:18:24 AM) heno: The other one has been discussed already I think?
(11:18:49 AM) liw: oh, I thought it was enough to mark them for review in launchpad (should read instructions better)
(11:19:04 AM) heno: I can approve these without a formal review first, but it's always better to get a third oppinion
(11:19:35 AM) heno: liw: you actually have to ping a review team member
(11:19:55 AM) liw: right, looking up info on that now
(11:20:52 AM) heno: pedro_: FixedBugVerification looks ready, thanks
(11:21:08 AM) pedro_: heno: yep , thanks for your feedback on it
(11:21:26 AM) pedro_: will ask a member of the review team to see it
(11:21:30 AM) heno: looks like Brian's specs still need to have Bof notes merged into the spec
(11:21:43 AM) heno: could someone here help with that
(11:21:57 AM) heno: I guess most of you were in these meetings
(11:22:19 AM) pedro_: let me check if i have the gobby logs
(11:22:20 AM) heno: I can do the final cleanup and review afterwards
(11:22:26 AM) heno: pedro_: thanks
(11:22:34 AM) ogasawara: pedro_: I'll check to see which logs I have too
(11:22:42 AM) pedro_: great
(11:23:31 AM) heno: short meeting then. any other topics?
(11:24:24 AM) stgraber: hello
(11:24:35 AM) liw: I can't find the info on whom to e-mail about reviewing my spec(s)
(11:25:37 AM) stgraber: I haven't managed to reach the bus on time so I'm still at the station :)
(11:25:47 AM) heno: liw: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-reviewers
(11:26:18 AM) heno: stgraber: with a laptop I assume
(11:26:35 AM) liw: heno, so I should just pick a random member of the review team and e-mail them?
(11:26:57 AM) heno: stgraber: perhaps we can meet up on IRC later and chat about specs?
(11:27:10 AM) heno: (I'm a bit behind in my review)
(11:27:17 AM) stgraber: heno: sure, I need some advice :)
(11:27:42 AM) stgraber: I have the wifi connection till 17:50, then will be back at around 18:30 :)
(11:27:44 AM) heno: liw: yes, preferably someone who knows the topic a bit. steve would be good
(11:28:16 AM) liw: heno, er, steve? I see no steve in the membership list
(11:28:52 AM) liw: wait, I *have* seen this page before, I now realize I wondered before whether Ian Jackson is still an active member
(11:29:04 AM) heno: hm, he has been doing other reviews
(11:29:19 AM) heno: looks a bit out of date ...
(11:29:22 AM) liw: steve langasek?
(11:29:29 AM) heno: yes
(11:29:37 AM) ogasawara: pedro_: I can't seem to find any useful gobby notes for brian's specs
(11:30:09 AM) heno: there are some notes pasted at the bottom of each though
(11:30:13 AM) pedro_: ogasawara: it seems that i have the same ones listed at his specs on the wiki page
(11:31:51 AM) heno: I think we're done
(11:31:56 AM) liw: aye
(11:31:57 AM) heno: Thanks all!
(11:32:02 AM) heno: #endmeeting
(11:32:03 AM) MootBot: Meeting finished at 16:32.
</pre>
