{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
*** (carried forward) arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU

* Raring Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

===== Blueprints =====
* If your work expected for 13.04 is not on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~davewalker/+specs?role=approver then please contact smoser or jamespage for some help to get it there.
* If your blueprints are in anything other than Approved, please move to get them there. Again, contact smoser or jamespage for more info.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team =====
* discussion of overlayfs bugs that we'd like to have fixed.  If you have other overlayfs bugs, please tag them 'overlayfs'.  Link: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bugs?field.tag=overlayfs

===== Open Discussion =====
* Robie Basak (rbasak) is applying for ServerDeveloper.  If you've done work with Robie and believe him to be qualified for this role, please read and endorse his application at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RobieBasak/ServerDeveloperApplication
* Louis Bouchard (caribou) is applying for Contributing Developer. If you've done work with Robie and believe him to be qualified for this role, please read and endorse his application at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisBouchard

===== Meeting Actions =====
* arosales [carried forward] to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU
* arosales create a overview topic bp for servercloud

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 11 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:01 <smoser> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
16:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun  4 16:01:38 2013 UTC.  The chair is smoser. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
16:01 <meetingology> 
16:01 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
16:01 <smoser> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
16:01 <adam_g> o/
16:01 <arosales> smoser, I ~still~ need to contact norvald
16:02 <arosales> :-/
16:02 <arosales> sorry
16:02 <arosales> I _will_ send an email today
16:02 * smoser carried foward.     (carried forward)
16:02 <smoser> #ACTION arosales [carried forward] to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU
16:02 * meetingology arosales [carried forward] to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU
16:03 <smoser> there.
16:03 * smoser thanks arosales for the cut and paste commands at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands
16:03 <hallyn> +1
16:03 <smoser> #topic Raring Development
16:03 <smoser> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule
16:04 <smoser> hm..
16:04 <smoser> where is our url for pretty graphs like https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule
16:04 <smoser> gah
16:04 <smoser> like
16:04 <roaksoax> o/
16:04 <smb> Sounds a tad outdated?
16:04 <smoser> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/
16:04 <arosales> I just updated them, I think another kind person originally made it.
16:04 <arosales> smoser, I think I need to make a topic url
16:04 <smoser> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule
16:04 <arosales> sorry a topic blueprint
16:04 <smoser> can i action you for that ?
16:04 <arosales> #action arosales create a overview topic bp for servercloud
16:04 * meetingology arosales create a overview topic bp for servercloud
16:05 <smoser> good.
16:05 * arosales think I also volunteered for that last week, running behind on my todos :-(
16:05 <smoser> #subtopic Release Bugs
16:05 <smoser> http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
16:06 <smoser> i dont know how relevant that url is at this point in the cycle.
16:06 <smoser> (in addition to the fact that i posted a -r- url again)
16:06 <smoser> http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
16:06 <smoser> #topic Blueprints
16:07 <smoser> we need some help from here from arosales, so next week we'll have a pretty graph.
16:07 * arosales will work on that _today_
16:07 <smoser> ok. so 2 things here.
16:08 <smoser> a.) if you have expected work for 13.04 that is not covered by a blueprint starting with 'servercloud-s-' at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~davewalker/+specs?role=approver
16:08 <smoser> then please contact myself or jamespage to help you get on that list.
16:09 <smoser> b.) if you have something on that list in some state other than 'Approved', then you should make some effort to change that.
16:09 <smoser> (smoser looks in a mirror and says "I'm talking to you")
16:09 <smoser> other blueprints in such a state are:
16:09 <smoser> servercloud-s-cloud-kvm-on-arm: hallyn
16:10 <smoser> servercloud-s-enterprise-testing: jamespage
16:10 <smoser> servercloud-s-fastpath-install: smoser
16:10 * hallyn not sure what that means.
16:10 <smoser> servercloud-s-interlock: Daviey
16:10 <smoser> servercloud-s-maas-next-steps: roaksoax
16:10 <smoser> servercloud-s-openstack-hypervisor: zul
16:10 <smoser> servercloud-s-openstack-pkg: zul
16:11 <hallyn> smoser: can you please drop servercloud-s-cloud-kvm-on-arm ?
16:11 <smoser> one other one for zul and one for smoser.
16:11 <hallyn> or cani do that, hm
16:11 <zul> can you drop servercloud-s-oepnstack-pkg: its going to be folded into the main openstck blueprint
16:12 <smoser> hm..
16:12 <smoser> ok. we'll figure out what to do on those.
16:12 <hallyn> thx
16:12 <hallyn> i marked it deferred for now.
16:13 <smoser> just put both of them as 'definition: obsolete'
16:13 <smoser> zul, ^
16:13 <hallyn> ok
16:13 <zul> ok cool
16:13 <smoser> anyone have anything else here?
16:13 <smoser> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
16:14 <smoser> anyone have events coming up ?
16:14 <smoser> ok. i dont. so moving on.
16:14 <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
16:14 <psivaa> i am in for plars today
16:15 <psivaa> nothing much from our side
16:15 <smoser> anyone have questions for psivaa ?
16:15 <smoser> k. moving on. thanks for coming p
16:15 <smoser> k. moving on. thanks for coming psivaa
16:15 <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
16:15 <smb> No kernel specific things to report (some user-space issues, though). Maybe I should remind anybody having kernel problems which I should (or am supposed to) be looking at, to remind me (again) if I have not been active on reports. Are there questions?
16:16 <smb> smoser, And I likely will try to talk to you about Xen stable (micro) updates and tech-board at some point later...
16:16 <smb> ...
16:16 <smoser> i dont have anything for you, smb.
16:16 <smoser> sometime, sooner than later, daviey or i or someone needs to look at "medium" sized kernel for server
16:17 <hallyn> smb: do you know if there are any overlayfs work items for kernel?
16:17 <smoser> (ie, one block net and other important-to-server modules, but not "desktop" like drivers)
16:17 <smb> hallyn, I thought apw was doing something
16:17 <hallyn> (there are some (well at least one) open bugs, wondering if fixing them is going to be actively done, or passively waited for)
16:17 <hallyn> if anyone was i assumed it was him :)
16:18 <hallyn> just wondering, i can looka round later
16:18 <smoser> hallyn, you have a list of said bugs ? it would be good to have them collected if nothing else.
16:18 <smoser> i'd be interested in seeing it.
16:18 * smoser has been bit by no inotify support
16:18 <smoser> bug 882147
16:18 <ubottu> bug 882147 in coreutils (Ubuntu) "overlayfs does not implement inotify interfaces correctly" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/882147
16:18 <smb> smoser, The medium size package thing, you probably may be successful in replacing current virtual, but there was not much rejoice for having yet another type
16:18 <hallyn> no not really. and i just deleted the emails
16:19 <smoser> good thinking on deleting stuff, hallyn :)
16:19 <smb> never leave paper trail. :)
16:20 <smoser> smoser, on medium sized, the goal woudl be replace -virtual, but i could see me asking for small medium an large for 13.10, one of which to be dropped for 14.04
16:20 <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
16:20 <smoser> rbasak, howdy
16:20 <rbasak> Hi
16:20 <rbasak> Nothing to report. Any questions for me?
16:21 <rbasak> I'm looking at a golang FTBFS that affects saucy but not sid
16:21 <smoser> nice.
16:21 <rbasak> That's about all in the ARM world right now.
16:21 <smoser> #topic Open Discussion
16:21 <hallyn> smoser: smb: bug 1098378
16:21 <ubottu> bug 1098378 in linux (Ubuntu Raring) "chroot+overlayfs seems to cause umount mis-behavior" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1098378
16:21 <hallyn> (and bug 1007089)
16:21 <ubottu> bug 1007089 in linux (Ubuntu) "overlayfs alters /proc/self/exe link(s), making result a dead link." [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1007089
16:21 <rbasak> I've applied for Ubuntu server dev upload rights.
16:22 <rbasak> Comments and/or endorsements appreciated: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RobieBasak/ServerDeveloperApplication
16:22 <smoser> hallyn, https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bugs?field.tag=overlayfs
16:22 <smb> hallyn, I will fwd them
16:23 <smoser> i just tagged those 3 bugs with 'overlayfs'
16:23 <hallyn> smoser: cool, thanks
16:23 <smoser> oh.. as far as endorsements go...
16:23 * xnox wishes for 882147 (inotify) to be fixed =))))
16:24 <smoser> caribou, is also seeking contributing developer
16:24 <caribou> smoser: indeed I am
16:25 <smoser> so anyone who's seen his good work (myself included) should feel free/priviledge/expected to update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisBouchard
16:25 * caribou would be honoured :-)
16:25 <smoser> anything else ?
16:26 <smoser> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
16:26 <smoser> this concludes our regularly scheduled program
16:26 <smoser> tune in next week for more exciting server team development
16:26 <rbasak> Thanks for chairing, smoser!
16:26 <smoser> next meeting Tuesday 2013-06-11 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
16:26 <smoser> #endmeeting
</pre>
