{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=03&day=03&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mar 3rd 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** [ACTION] chrisccoulson send oxide and qtwebkit benchmark results to mailing list
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** click-apparmor update for frameworks
** investigate Qt 5.2 profile denials
** miscellaneous catch up
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: community
** pending updates
** patch pilot
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor
*** finished up items related to 2.8.95 in the archive except for tools not being able to parse dbus rules
*** ipc testing with jjohansen
** tyhicks
** finished up kernel keyring work (talked to upstream, sent pam patch up)
** finish up addressing final few comments from the dbus-daemon mediation patches review
** kdbus for a day or two to finish/continue the upstream conversation
** help with testing 
** jjohansen
** !AppArmor
*** ipc and kernel issues
*** testing with sbeattie
*** cross namespace stacking as time allows
** sarnold
** !AppArmor 2.8.95 upload. Remaining issue is tools failing with dbus
** MIRs: juju-core, schroot, strongswan, glusterfs, thermald. nginx, done from a security perspective)
** internal code audit
** chrisccoulson
** Oxide
*** user-agent override mechanism
*** reimplemented the script messaging API on the renderer side to fix some bugs (initial implementation was only for the unit tests). Continue with this
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-03-03-16.39.html
