{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** None

* V Development

* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events

* Open Discussion

* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

===== Previous Action Points: =====
 Just to mark this one done:
 matsubara to chase someone that can update release bugs report: http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
  I filed https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-qa-website/+bug/1398443 for this, which has been fixed by Brian Murray and the report now works -- 2014-12-02 matsubara

===== Meeting Actions =====
* Establish new qa-team point of contact for server team (beisner).
* Review the list of server related package that need to migrate to systemd.
* Possible tracking of lxd through github milestones/issues rather than blueprints (hallyn).
* BluePrints update.
* cloud-init blueprint in shape for the python3 rebase (smoser).

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. gnuoy will chair.

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan  6 16:00:09 2015 UTC.  The chair is kickinz1. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
16:00 <meetingology> 
16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
16:01 <kickinz1> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
16:01 <coreycb> o/
16:01 <matsubara> o/
16:01 <kickinz1> seems there is an action point, seems done right?
16:03 <kickinz1> SO I go to Vivid dev?
16:03 <coreycb> kickinz1, you may want to paste the action point.  I'm not seeing logs from the last meeting.
16:04 <kickinz1> ok
16:04 <kickinz1> Review ACTION points from previous meeting
16:04 <kickinz1> matsubara to chase someone that can update release bugs report: http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
16:04 <kickinz1> I filed https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-qa-website/+bug/1398443 for this, which has been fixed by Brian Murray and the report now works -- 2014-12-02 matsubara
16:04 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1398443 in Ubuntu QA Website "rls-v-tracking missing for Vivid" [Undecided,Fix released]
16:04 <arges> o/
16:04 <gaughen> o/
16:04 <matsubara> kickinz1, that's been sorted out in the previous meeting
16:04 <kickinz1> sorry..
16:05 <kickinz1> #topic Vivid Development
16:05 <hallyn> kickinz1: not your fault, last person should have updated it.  please do so this time
16:05 <kickinz1> ok I'll  do
16:05 <hallyn> thanks :)
16:05 <kickinz1> So anything related to vivid?
16:06 <hallyn> I need to talk to stgraber but it loks like we're going to track lxd through github milestones/issues rather than blueprint
16:06 <kickinz1> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
16:07 <kickinz1> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
16:07 <coreycb> that tag may be broken, we can look at the url on our own
16:07 <gaughen> sorry kickinz1 I think that was me that should have updated the action, and I actually thought I did
16:08 <gaughen> our next big date for the release is feature freeze - Feb 19
16:08 <coreycb> or maybe link isn't supposed to do anything (ignore me)
16:08 <kickinz1> the #link is in the command list...
16:09 <kickinz1> #subtopic Release Bugs
16:09 <kickinz1> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
16:10 <kickinz1> #link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
16:12 <gaughen> maybe the meeting tool doesn't like a french '#' kickinz1 ;-)
16:13 <gaughen> coreycb, kickinz1 is that link working for you? I'm getting a blank page
16:13 <coreycb> it's dead for me
16:13 <gaughen> anyhow, I'm not aware of any major show stoppers right now, so we can move on to blueprints
16:13 <kickinz1> So link doesn't work, replacing reqorts by reports doesn't seem do to anything, I'll look into ot after
16:13 <gaughen> although I would say one thing on my mind is the move to systemd this cycle
16:14 <gaughen> we need to carve out some time to make sure the services that are server image specific are  happy
16:14 <gaughen> and we need to do that this month
16:14 <gaughen> anyhow, kickinz1 you can move us along with your fancy french #s ;-)
16:14 <kickinz1> ok
16:15 <kickinz1> #subtopic Blueprints
16:15 <kickinz1> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html
16:15 <gaughen> kickinz1, I've been trying to make sure our blueprints are in a good state. as usual they need love. But I will continue to work that.
16:16 <gaughen> and as hallyn mentioned the plan will be to track lxd not in blueprints but on github
16:16 <kickinz1> ok
16:16 <gaughen> smoser, we need to get a cloud-init blueprint in shape for the python3 rebase
16:16 <gaughen> anyhow, that is all kickinz1
16:16 <smoser> gaughen, agreed.
16:17 <kickinz1> So going to SErver and Cloud
16:17 <kickinz1> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
16:17 <gaughen> it worked kickinz1!
16:17 <caribou> kickinz1: nothing particular here
16:17 <kickinz1> ok
16:17 <kickinz1> thanks caribou
16:17 <kickinz1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
16:18 <kickinz1> psivaa_ ?
16:19 <kickinz1> So next
16:19 <kickinz1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
16:19 <arges> the kernel is perfect and no bugs exist. : )
16:19 <kickinz1> :)
16:20 <beisner> kickinz1, plz add action item for me:   establish new qa-team point of contact for server team
16:20 <arges> feel free to let us know of any issues as usual
16:20 <psivaa_> kickinz1: sorry i am no longer in the QA team. besigner was inthe process of finding a QA rep
16:20 <kickinz1> ok thanks psivaa_
16:21 <kickinz1> thanks arges
16:21 <kickinz1> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
16:22 <kickinz1> So any Ubuntu Server Team Events coming soon?
16:22 <gaughen> well jamespage's birthday is coming up
16:22 <gaughen> for real this time
16:22 <kickinz1> A new team member with the nickname tmoser ?
16:22 <gaughen> kickinz1, yes!
16:23 <gaughen> kickinz1, but otherwise I'm not aware of any upcoming events.
16:23 <kickinz1> ok I move on
16:23 <kickinz1> #topic Open Discussion
16:23 <kickinz1> Anyone?
16:24 <kickinz1> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
16:24 <kickinz1> So next meeting is 13 jan 2015
16:25 <kickinz1> next chair is smoser
</pre>
