{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
05:02	mdz	ok, let's get started
=== Mithrandir has the problem of having his mail all too sorted.. it makes IMAP slow.
05:02	mdz	it's good to see everyone!  feels like a long time
05:02	Keybuk	kylem: nope, nowhere near
05:02	kylem	Keybuk, bummer.
05:02	mdz	I was traveling and then on holiday, glad to be back though
05:03	mdz	today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070628
05:03	mdz	it looks like no agenda items were submitted in summary activity this week
05:03	kylem	i think shawarma has one. heh.
05:03	shawarma	Yeah.
05:03	mdz	I guess that means no one has any problems at all! ;-)
05:03	Riddell	hi
=== kylem runs away as fast as he can
05:04	shawarma	We're getting more and more requests for updated Dapper install CD's since a lot of new, fancy SCSI and RAID controllers aren't support.
05:04	mdz	I echo pitti's hearty appreciation for the efforts which went into tribe 2
05:04	cjwatson	shawarma: coincidentally ... ;-)
=== mvo hugs pitti
=== asac hugs pitti
=== pitti hugs the team
=== seb128 hugs pitti
=== dholbach hugs pitti
=== keescook hugs pitti
=== kylem high fives pitti
05:04	pitti	wow
=== pitti bounces
=== shawarma hugs pitti, too.
05:04	mdz	shawarma: Ubuntu 6.06.2 is under discussion right now
05:04	keescook	hug-powered!
05:05	mdz	shawarma: tentative target is August
05:05	shawarma	mdz: Oh, really? Where do I join the fun?
05:05	cjwatson	probably late Aug
05:05	Hobbsee	yay pitti!
05:05	agoliveira	I've helped a bit and could follow closelly the huge effort as well! Well done!
=== ogra hugs pitti as well
=== Hobbsee hugs pitti
=== evand hugs pitti
=== shawarma hugs mvo for sorting out that scary apt bug. Eek.
=== Keybuk hugs everyone
05:05	cjwatson	the main thing to do for 6.06.2 is to identify what should go into it
05:06	fabbione	i did propose to have a session at UDS to discuss exactly this problem
05:06	cjwatson	we've been circulating a couple of ideas but have only *just* got started
05:06	BenC	maybe we should create a linux-backports-modules-2.6.15 for dapper
05:06	fabbione	but the session was never scheduled
05:06	mdz	what we likely want is a list of targeted bugs
05:07	shawarma	Where has this discussio been going on? (i.e. which mailing list have I failed to subscribe to?)
05:07	mdz	shawarma: no, a very preliminary discussion just began with a few people via private mail
05:07	BenC	Could the server team come up with a list of network and storage drivers with bug numbers?
05:07	asac	will 6.06.2 be a release update ... or a new branch that will coexist?
05:07	cjwatson	asac: the former
05:07	mdz	to collect input on how the process will work
05:07	kylem	BenC, the problem primarily is how to re-qualify the release.
05:08	kylem	backporting subsystems is *guaranteed* to break working configs.
05:08	cjwatson	we definitely need to bear in mind support for people upgrading dapper
05:08	BenC	I don't want to backport subsystems for sure :)
05:08	cjwatson	adding hardware support in stable releases has been a thorny topic in the past, to say the very least
05:08	BenC	network controllers are pretty easy, and scsi is not bad...sata will likely be a no-go though
05:08	pitti	we already had that discussion on the ML, and the basic outcome was that it was too crazy/too much work/not doable at all, right?
05:08	mdz	kylem: we'll consider the needs on a case-by-case basis, and determine what needs to be done
05:09	mdz	kylem: things which are too risky for the benefit they provide will have to be put aside
05:09	cjwatson	I don't think we can promise to support everyone's new+shiny hardware in 6.062
05:09	mdz	as always for SRUs
05:09	amitk	Greg K-H wrote abot this very thing the other day: http://www.kroah.com/log/linux/enterprise_kernel_future.html
05:09	BenC	yeah, I read that
05:09	kylem	amitk, yeah, greg, arjan and i talked a bit about this at the LF summit
05:09	BenC	pretty much describes the problems we have, like any distro
05:09	agoliveira	SRUs?
05:09	pitti	BenC: linux-backports-modules-2.6.15 sounds much better wrt. breaking existing setups; that will limit the type of drivers which can be backported at all, right?
05:10	dholbach	agoliveira: stable release updates
05:10	BenC	not much help in that document though :)
05:10	kylem	this was a big session with vendors at LF.
05:10	agoliveira	Thanks
05:10	mdz	BenC: yeah, only his solution fails to mention the 'con' of 'new upstream kernels are full of regressions'
05:10	shawarma	cjwatson: I'm just afraid we'll lose ground due to lacking hardware support in our LTS's.
05:10	shawarma	The alternative is more frequent LTS's, but that brings in entirely different issues.
05:10	pitti	cjwatson: and TBH we should never even publicly announce this as a goal
05:10	kylem	mdz, did you catch that session?
05:10	mdz	kylem: no, I'm afraid not
05:10	kylem	mdz, yeah, i think it was friday afternoon.
05:10	kylem	basically it was vendor versus distro bitchfest 2007
05:11	BenC	pitti: yeah, limits it to just drivers, no subsystems, unless we get frisky too drop new subsystem replacements in updates/, which is probably bad :)
05:11	agoliveira	kylem: very well put :-D
05:11	kylem	greg summarizes it pretty well in that blog entry though.
05:11	mdz	so, to come back to 6.06.2
05:11	mdz	the answer is, stay tuned, we'll begin the process soon
05:11	pitti	BenC: agreed; so we can backport drivers which don't depend so heavily on big and/or changing kernel ABIs; if that covers wifis and graphics drivers (nvidia/fglrx), that's already something
05:12	mdz	I want to take advantage of this cycle to formalize the process a bit more and get it documented
05:12	kylem	wifi is one of the biggest problems.
05:12	BenC	mdz: for kernel side, I propose a linux-backports-modules-2.6.15, with appropriate meta packages...anything beyond that is too much work/testing for an Aug release
05:12	mdz	BenC: that unfortunately doesn't solve the problem, which is that people can't install
05:12	BenC	mdz: make that package default on the CD?
05:12	mdz	s/the/an important/
05:12	fabbione	we will need appropriate changes to the installer to
05:12	cjwatson	BenC: then for 6.06.3 we'd need a linux-backports-backports-modules-2.6.15
05:12	BenC	just need to seed it and include it
05:13	cjwatson	for the stuff that breaks people using the previous set of backports
05:13	mdz	BenC: we're not going to spec out a technical solution here; it is a big hairy mess
05:13	BenC	cjwatson: why? Just update the same package?
05:13	cjwatson	for the same reason we don't install l-b-m by default in the first place
05:13	shawarma	cjwatson: which was.. ?
05:13	shawarma	cjwatson: fear of breaking stuff that already works?
05:13	cjwatson	we plan to put stuff in it that may well break people's working setups
05:13	shawarma	Right.
05:14	shawarma	hrm..
05:14	cjwatson	the entire reason to put something in l-b-m is that it shouldn't go in a regular kernel update
05:14	BenC	if we fear it that much, then we are saying we can't do it at all for .02?
05:14	mdz	please, guys
05:14	pitti	shawarma: a module could then be autoloaded in favor of another one which was used before
05:14	mdz	this is not the time to argue technical details
05:14	BenC	ok
=== kylem hands mdz a gavel.
05:14	mdz	I will circulate a plan and ask for comments on it
05:14	shawarma	pitti: Sure.
05:14	mdz	and we'll take it from there
05:14	shawarma	\o/
05:15	cjwatson	done
05:15	mdz	are Canonical folks all sorted for the sprint?
05:15	cjwatson	oh, I still need to book the train travel
05:15	agoliveira	Yep
05:15	fabbione	yeo
05:15	cjwatson	(all 15 of it)
05:15	dendrobates	mdz: yep
05:15	Riddell	do we have a page to put agenda items?
05:15	shawarma	Yup.
05:15	keescook	mdz: yup
05:15	calc	yes
05:16	Riddell	(I can't think of any just now but if it do)
=== mvo raises his hand
05:16	iwj	cjwatson: It's no cheaper to book if I'm not mistaken.
05:16	asac	yes
05:16	kylem	cjwatson, get keybuk to fly you in? :)
05:16	shawarma	Riddell: It's on the sprint page on the wiki.
05:16	Keybuk	kylem: unlikely with the current UK weather :-/
05:16	Keybuk	I can't fly above clouds
05:16	cjwatson	iwj: it would get clan off my back ;-)
=== agoliveira is wondering is Alex Sacks snores...
05:16	asac	agoliveira: dito :)
05:16	pitti	looking forward to it
05:16	fabbione	what's the name of the hotel btw?
05:16	mdz	ok, good
05:16	iwj	pitti: The snoring ?
05:16	agoliveira	asac: You're screwed :-D
05:17	Keybuk	fabbione: Rochester Grand iirc
=== kylem can say adilson doesn't snore.
05:17	Keybuk	it's a nice little place
05:17	BenC	mdz: how should I coordinate setting aside time for canonica-qa/kernel-team and such?
05:17	pitti	iwj: absolutely :) seb128 doesn't snore fortunately
05:17	fabbione	Keybuk: ok, there are directions but no name :)
05:17	Keybuk	Rochester Grange, sorry
05:17	mdz	heno: do you want to raise any questions here regarding workflow for bugs, especially escalations?
05:17	shawarma	Riddell: Beneath the list of people.
05:17	mdz	BenC: GMTA
05:17	Keybuk	http://www.grangehotels.com/grange_rochester_hotel/index.htm
05:17	fabbione	Keybuk: thanks
05:17	Riddell	shawarma: oh yes
05:18	heno	mdz: no I think I'll do that in individual conversations, thanks
05:18	Keybuk	(at least, I'm assuming that's where we are -- claire hasn't actually confirmed yet)
05:18	mdz	ok
=== iwj edits the wiki.
05:18	pitti	thanks for that, I'll need it for directions from Gatwick
05:18	iwj	Oh, no, cjwatson got there first.
05:18	Keybuk	pitti: I've already added directions from all major airports to the wiki ;)
05:18	fabbione	Keybuk: directions looks like KK, but there are a bunch of hotels there..
05:18	pitti	Keybuk: ah, sweet
05:18	amitk	mdz: has Intel confirmed that they will be sending people?
05:18	mdz	amitk: yes
05:19	amitk	benc: in that case we need to schedule some time with them as well?
05:19	agoliveira	amit:At least for 2 or 3 days there'll be some of them with us.
05:19	mdz	amitk: add it to the wiki page just to keep it on the radar
05:19	BenC	amitk: yep
05:20	shawarma	I have an e-mail where it says PArk Plaza Riverside?
05:20	mdz	there will be plenty of UME work to be done in any caes
05:20	mdz	case
05:20	mdz	Keybuk: no, it's a different hotel
05:20	mdz	clan will update the wiki page
05:20	Keybuk	mdz: yeah, I just asked and found that out :p
=== agoliveira feels a a chilly wind now...
05:20	Keybuk	the map on the wiki says the rochester, which is what confused me
05:21	mdz	that's the general "office and stuff nearby" map
05:21	dendrobates	shawarma: me too, is the server team in a different hotel?
=== keescook imagines himself wandering London, looking for his hotel
05:21	mdz	shawarma: same
05:21	agoliveira	BTW, is this hotel far from the office? Can we go by foot?
05:21	kylem	re: sprint; is the heathrow express worth the 15GBP?
05:21	mdz	dendrobates: everyone is in the park plaza riverside as far as I'm aware
05:21	shawarma	dendrobates: That would be rather silly. :)
05:21	Keybuk	kylem: no, takes you to the wrong train station
05:21	fabbione	kylem: no, subway > *
05:21	Keybuk	kylem: paddington is an arse to get anywhere from
05:22	cjwatson	I'm just checking into the details but I doubt the Stansted Express is worth it either
05:22	agoliveira	fabbione: tube ;)
05:22	kylem	Keybuk, yeah but i want to take a picture of the bear statue :P
=== kylem remembers being read paddington bear stories as a child
05:22	iwj	cjwatson: Err, the Stansted Express and the Gatwick Express are much more sensible.  They're basically mostly normal trains.
05:22	calc	url/address for PPR?
05:22	Keybuk	Gatwick Express is utterly non-sensible
05:22	Keybuk	it's twice as much as the ordinary train, and almost identical times to the same station
05:23	Keybuk	and isn't any nicer
05:23	mdz	inquiries regarding the sprint should be directed first to the wiki, and then to clan (with a wiki update for any new information obtained via the latter)
05:23	cjwatson	iwj: hmm, ok. seems to take you into Liverpool Street though which probably isn't ideal
05:23	mdz	it looks a little out of date, but that should be fixed soon
05:24	iwj	cjwatson: Oh, yes.
05:24	mdz	https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/+specs shows a lot of unknown statuses
05:25	mdz	please remember to update LP with your progress, so as not to give the impression of falling behind
05:25	Mithrandir	I'll nag the Intel guys to do so for their specs too
05:25	Mithrandir	(for mobile)
05:25	mdz	thanks
05:25	pitti	mdz: what status to give to an informational spec like bzr-best-practices? (this is cuurently 'unknown')
05:26	agoliveira	They have being working on them latelly.
05:26	agoliveira	I mean, the Intel guys.
05:26	Mithrandir	agoliveira: oh, sure, they just need to update the status of the spec.
05:26	mdz	pitti: for an informational spec, it should be the progress of the writeup.  if it's published and appropriately linked, it's implemented
05:26	pitti	mdz: alright, thanks
05:26	Mithrandir	agoliveira: I'm not unhappy with their progress, just with not knowing the status.
05:26	agoliveira	Mithrandir: Righto
05:27	mdz	are there any questions or issues with spec progress or reporting?
05:28	mdz	feature freeze is 16 August
05:28	Mithrandir	Mobile are behind on writeups, but I'm prodding people to have them ready, hopefully this week.
05:28	Keybuk	(suggests a 1 minute panic'd silence :p)
05:28	mdz	right, mobile got a late start for reasons beyond our control, and is playing catch-up
05:29	mdz	server projects were also off to a late start, but the team is working steadily as well (thanks!)
05:29	shawarma	\o/
05:30	shawarma	Go us!
05:30	shawarma	:)
05:30	iwj	I can't seem to find this mail about the sprint hotel address.
=== dholbach hugs shawarma, dendrobates, mathiaz and keescook :)
05:30	shawarma	iwj: I got it early because I've got sprint next week, too.
05:30	Keybuk	iwj: there isn't a mail yet
05:30	mdz	iwj: clan is on it, don't worry
05:30	agoliveira	shawarma: That's self confidence!
05:30	shawarma	iwj: Server sprint, that is.
05:30	agoliveira	;)
05:30	iwj	Oh, OK, that's fine then.  Just so long as it hadn't got lost ...
=== Keybuk hands iwj his crystal ball ... there it is
05:31	mdz	ok, is there any other business for the meeting?
05:31	mdz	is there anything deeply buried in my inbox I should be aware of?
05:31	mdz	(I'm almost caught up, actually)
05:31	ogra	does anyone know whats up with -changes ?
05:32	mdz	not quite, but the appropriate LP folks have been informed and are working on it
05:32	fabbione	it works?
05:32	ogra	it seems to flip/flop between Changed By ad MAintaianer adresses at the moment
05:32	mdz	ogra: known issue
05:32	Riddell	mdz: your UDS e-mail wasn't clear to me, are we ment to forward names of invitees?
05:32	fabbione	ogra: if you did an upload with Closes LP: #1234, check with with cprov. some of them have gone lost
05:32	mdz	Riddell: yes
05:32	pitti	ogra: I reported it to the soyuz guys already
05:33	Riddell	mdz: ok
05:33	pitti	fabbione: I mailed u-d-a@ about it actually
05:33	ogra	well, i only noticed the Maintainer being used ... but just saw the flip/flop today, so i thought i should mention it :)
05:33	fabbione	pitti: ok
05:33	pitti	ogra: hm, did it actually change *back* to Maintainer?
05:33	fabbione	pitti: mail is not around yet...
05:34	mdz	pitti: yes, it's behaving strangely.  but known.
05:34	ogra	well i see a bunch that uses Maintainer ...
05:34	mdz	sounds like we can safely wrap up the meeting, then
05:34	ogra	and then there are dokos uploads :)
05:34	pitti	fabbione: it was days ago already
05:34	fabbione	pitti: i am talking to the uploads it lost today?
05:34	pitti	fabbione: that would be news to me
05:35	fabbione	<cprov> fabbione: yes, something went wrong in soyuz when closing the respective bug
05:35	pitti	fabbione: doesn't it close bugs for packages that were held in the unapproved queue until thawing?
05:35	fabbione	this was about one hour ago
05:35	pitti	erk
05:35	fabbione	it's fixed
05:35	pitti	fabbione: ok, good to know
05:35	fabbione	but it might have lost not just my upload
05:35	pitti	fabbione: I only applied the fix in-place in soyuz, it might have been clobbered by  the new rollout
05:35	dholbach	thanks everybody :)
05:35	fabbione	pitti:  i don't know the details.. -ENOACCESS to the toys
05:36	mdz	right. back to your regularly scheduled soyuz chatter. :-)
05:36	mdz	adjourned, thanks everyone
</pre>
