{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=11&day=18&year=2013&hour=4&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Nov 18th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': MarcDeslauriers (mdeslaur)

=== Attendance ===
* sbeattie
* jjohansen
* mdeslaur
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* jdstrand
* tyhicks

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to the following individuals:
** Dave Chiluk (chiluk) provided debdiffs for precise-saucy for bip (LP: #1247888)
** Stefan Bader (smb) provided debdiffs for raring-trusty for xen 
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** mdeslaur:
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** Pending merges
** MIR work
** chrisccouson
** Firefox update, and PPA work
** Oxide rebase
** Oxide packaging
** Start work on LP: #1214049
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor work
** jjohansen
** !AppArmor work
** gold fish kernel fixing

* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-11-18-17.32.html
