{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

09:01 mdz        good morning everyone
09:01 jpatrick   good evening
09:01 sivang     morning mdz
09:01 raphink    hi mdz
09:01 mdz        tech board meeting starts now, agenda at
                 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoardAgenda
09:01 raphink    mdz: Tonio (Anthony Mercatante) might be a bit late
09:01 ogra       evening
09:02 raphink    yop ogra
=== allee [n=ach@allee.exgal.mpe.mpg.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                 I don't think we have any core developer candidates to process; the
09:02 mdz        pending memberships in launchpad (apart from Kinnison, who isn't
                 present) are invalid
09:03 mjg59      mdz: Is it possible to process kinnison in his absence?
09:04 mdz        mjg59: I suppose so, if we both agree
09:04 ogra       i sponsored an upload for him today if thats worth something
09:04 raphink    that would be a great surprise for him :)
09:04 ogra       and he wants to grab gnome-powermanager, its would be helpful if he
                 could upload
09:04 mjg59      He's been an active Debian developer, and we're now entirely dependent
                 on infrastructure he helped implement
09:05 mdz        we're fairly well acquainted at this point
09:05 mjg59      I'm inclined to say that he'd be a valuable and competent member of the
                 team
09:05 mdz        I spent the better part of a week working with him on soyuz
09:06 mdz        mjg59: what did you sponsor?
09:06 mjg59      mdz: I haven't sponsored any of his uploads as yet, but I've been
                 working with him on g-p-m
09:06 ogra       mdz, i did ...
09:06 mdz        I am somewhat concerned by the fact that he seems to like lua
09:06 ogra       mdz, g-p-m
09:06 sivang     mdz: ?? :)
09:07 mdz        the humour-impaired may disregard my last statement
09:07 sivang     hehe
09:07 mjg59      mdz: Oh, christ, yes.
09:07 sivang     I doublechecked :)
09:07 mjg59      But anyway, +1 from me.
09:07 elmo       he doesn't just like it, he packages it
09:07 ogra       mdz, he fixed a sabdfl bug :) #29881 ... so the lid -> lock screen stuff
                 is done as well ;)
09:07 mjg59      (Unless anyone has any objections)
09:07 mdz        mjg59: has he maintained non-lua packages in the past?
=== sivang cheers for Kinnison in his absence.
09:07 elmo       I object on the basis that perpuating lua is a crime against humanity
09:08 sivang     and what about Arannah?
09:08 sivang     elmo: LOL
09:08 mdz        I don't nkow who Arannah is
09:08 mdz        know
09:08 sivang     not who,
09:08 sivang     what
09:08 sivang     ah ops
09:09 sivang     disregard that.
09:09 dholbach   i think he was in the uploaders list of dbus
09:09 mjg59      Yes, he used to work on dbus (with Daniels)
09:09 mdz        oh how confusing
09:10 mjg59      Having lost a Daniel, I feel we need to compensate by adding another
09:10 mdz        anyway, there is precedent for both considering someone in absence if we
                 have sufficient first-hand experience with them, and for 50% quorum
09:10 mdz        so I think we can vote
09:10 ogra       yay
09:10 mdz        s/I think //
09:10 sivang     yay
09:11 mjg59      +1 from me
09:11 mdz        +1 with intentions to have a serious talk with him about this lua
                 business
09:11 mjg59      And the beard
09:12 ogra       haha
09:12 sivang     mdz: given you just said that, note
                 http://www.digital-scurf.org/software/aranha
09:12 mdz        mjg59: will you communicate the decision to him?
09:12 mjg59      mdz: Yup
09:12 mdz        thanks
09:12 mdz        I've twiddled the launchpad bits
09:13 mdz        so in theory he should have upload privileges effective immediately
09:13 ogra       note that he's on ubuntu-dev as well ...
09:13 mjg59      Ok. Next set of people?
09:13 mdz        yes, that is obsolete
09:13 mdz        the motu applicant list is sort of a mess
09:13 ogra       yup
09:14 dholbach   mdz: Sorry, I'll mail the guys and report back ASAP.
09:14 mdz        dholbach: thanks
09:14 dholbach   (note the capital letters)
09:14 mdz        dholbach: would you be sure to do that before each meeting?
09:14 mdz        I can process any improper applications which should be declined for you
09:15 dholbach   Yes.
09:15 mdz        quickly, is there anyone here in regard to a MOTU application?
=== Tonio_ [n=tonio@tonio.planetemu.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:15 Tonio_     hi everyone
09:15 LaserJock  mdz: I'm Jordan Mantha
09:15 dholbach   hi Tonio_
09:15 mdz        ok, that's two
=== jpatrick is Jonathan Patrick Davies
09:16 mdz        3
09:16 raphink    hi Tonio_
09:16 raphink    :)
=== Tonio_ is Anthony Mercatante
09:16 mdz        Ivailo Ivanov?
09:16 mdz        freeflying?
09:16 mdz        ok
09:16 jpatrick   not here
09:17 mdz        Tonio_ is first up, then
=== mhz [n=mhz_chil@moinmoin/fan/mhz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:17 mdz        Tonio_: so it looks like you're interested in KDE?
09:18 Tonio_     mdz: absolutly ;)
09:18 mdz        who has been sponsoring your uploads?  Riddell?
09:18 Tonio_     mostly Riddell, but since he is MOTU, raphink uploaded many too
09:18 raphink    quite a bit recently yes
09:18 mdz        is Riddell here?
09:18 jpatrick   was a minute ago
09:19 Riddell    I am
=== sistpoty [n=sistpoty@ubuntu/member/sistpoty] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:19 mdz        Riddell: any comments?
09:19 raphink    mdz: Tonio_ has been a very active Kubuntu developer for a long time
09:19 Riddell    was politely waiting for Tonio_'s 3 line introduction..
09:19 dholbach   me too
09:19 Riddell    but I fully support Tonio_'s membership of ubuntu-dev
09:19 raphink    mdz: I have to confess he was the one introducing me to Ubuntu packages
                 :)
09:19 mdz        I am satisfied with his wiki page intro
09:19 Tonio_     I'm really sorry, but I didn't have the time to prepare a little text
                 instroducing me...
09:19 mjg59      Tonio_: No problem
09:20 Riddell    he's a good packager and fixed some bugs too like the bluez pin issue we
                 found recently
09:20 mdz        Riddell: can you provide any specific feedback on his packaging work,
                 especially that done under your sponsorship?
09:20 mdz        Riddell: you reviewed his uploads carefully?
09:20 raphink    Tonio_ has been working on kubuntu default settings lately
09:20 Riddell    mdz: yes, I've sponsored a number of his uploads, there's usually
                 minimal problems with them
09:21 mdz        Riddell: can you give us an example of a problem and how it was
                 resolved?
                 I reviewed a huge bunch of Tonio_ and he's been there for months,
09:21 dholbach   improving them on my requests and adding even more packages. He follows
                 up quickly and I'm happy with this packaging skills.
09:21 raphink    dholbach: + :)
09:21 ogra       additionally he seems to be a good guy to help newcomers in #ubuntu-motu
09:22 ogra       i saw him often help out on questions ...
                 http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=1145  random example, mateedit,
09:22 Riddell    needed to tidy upstream tar file and I'm usually quite strict in asking
                 for patch names to be in changelogs
09:23 mdz        Riddell: so you suggested those corrections and he made them?
09:23 raphink    mdz: Tonio_ considers all corrections to packages on REVU
09:23 Riddell    mdz: yes
09:23 raphink    mdz: and is eager to defend his technical choices when a MOTU is wrong
                 on a comment, too
09:25 mdz        Tonio_: you mention the laptop team on your web page; have you worked
                 with mjg59 on any projects there?
09:25 mjg59      Not as yet
09:25 mdz        oh, I see, that's a future interest
09:25 mjg59      Though it would be good - KDE's lacking some love compared to Gnome
09:26 Tonio_     mdz: I must say not at the moment, cause I never found any problems with
                 my laptop right now, but it is something I would like to find the to do
09:26 mdz        Tonio_: can you tell us about your plans for laptop team participation?
09:26 ogra       someone needs to rewrite g-p-m for kde :)
09:26 ogra       (probably a bit late for dapper )
09:26 sivang     ogra: wait until it's better in dapper for gnome :)
09:26 Riddell    ogra: (I'm in contact with the kpowersave developers about improvements
                 I'd like to have matched funcationality)
09:26 ogra       sivang, it already is
09:27 ogra       Riddell, ++
09:27 Tonio_     mdz: my plans are limited I must say
09:27 mdz        Tonio_: what do you think could be done to improve laptop/power
                 management integration in KDE?
09:27 ogra       sivang, now that Kinnison cares actively for it :)
09:27 sivang     ogra: rock :)
                 I don't have many laptops, just one, so unsuring that the compatibility
09:27 Tonio_     with that specific model is okay, and certainly adding an entry on the
                 wiki
09:28 Tonio_     but that is quite limited, indeed
09:28 mjg59      Tonio_: Would you be interested in working on more general support, even
                 if you can't test it all?
09:28 raphink    I think Tonio_ 's main interest in really Kubuntu right now
09:29 raphink    s/in/is/
09:29 mdz        raphink: he can speak to his own interests, surely
09:29 Tonio_     mjg59: that could be interesting, although there are software dedicated
                 to laptops that could/should be integrated
09:29 raphink    sure mdz :)
09:29 ogra       raphink, kubuntu needs powermanagement help and i guess Riddell would be
                 happy if someone can help out
09:29 Tonio_     I discussed on powersave with riddell recently about that
09:29 mjg59      Tonio_: Ok, cool
09:30 mjg59      Tonio_: Unrelatedly, have any of the tools you've packaged been uploaded
                 to Debian since you first packaged them?
                 but has raphink was saying, my main priority is more kubuntu than
09:30 Tonio_     anything else, and if specific things can be done for kubuntu on the
                 laptop part, I would take pleasure wokirng on it
09:31 Tonio_     mjd59, I didn't personally performed the debian submission, but I know
                 certain packages have been included to debian by the utnubu team
09:32 mjg59      Tonio_: Once that happens, do you continue packaging new upstream
                 releases or do you start syncing from Debian?
09:32 Tonio_     generally, when a package gets into debian, and that I am not the
                 maintainer, I don't continue the packaging stuff
09:33 Tonio_     ubutu's main purpose is to be synched to debian, I think
09:33 Tonio_     but if the debian package is the one I did for ubuntu, I continue
                 maintaining it, of course
09:33 Tonio_     packaging an application isn't a "one time" stuff
09:34 mjg59      Tonio_: Ok, cool
09:35 mdz        Tonio_: Ubuntu's _main_ purpose is to be a high-quality free operating
                 system, though coordinating with our upstreams is also important ;-)
09:35 mdz        mjg59: I'm finished, you?
09:35 Tonio_     mdz: sure ;)
09:36 mjg59      mdz: I think so
09:36 mdz        ok, votes
09:37 mdz        +1, based on positive feedback from existing motu and core developers
                 and a substantial history of packaging contributions
09:38 sivang     phew, /me thought MOTU applications just got alot harder :)
09:38 mjg59      +1 for me
09:38 raphink    sivang: indeed ;)
09:38 mdz        Tonio_: congratulations and welcome
09:38 sivang     raphink: this is for main right?
09:38 ogra       sivang, we're still waiting for you :)
09:38 raphink    welcome aboard Tonio_ :)
09:38 raphink    sivang: not even ;)
09:38 ogra       welcome Tonio_ !
09:38 Tonio_     thanks very much !
09:39 ogra       next ?
09:39 dholbach   congratulations Tonio_!
09:39 allee      Tonio_: congrats
09:39 Tonio_     I hope not to deceive you
09:39 mdz        jpatrick: you're next; would you like to introduce yourself?
09:39 Tonio_     allee: thanks :)
09:39 jpatrick   Yes, thank you I wrote sometime up
09:39 mdz        your wiki page is informative, but feel free to summarize here
                 I started MOTU and packaging things when people started asking for
                 packages at the Kubuntu Forums about five months ago, that's when I
                 decided to give it a try. My work can be found at my wikipage (
09:39 jpatrick   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PatrickDavies ). While doing my first packages,
                 I discovered REVU and started helping out, I've placed some notes on the
                 KubuntuPackagingGuide at the wiki. I only did a few merges (kmymoney2
                 and kxdock
                 lp people on #ubuntu-motu by reviewing their packages on IRC (with no
09:39 jpatrick   power to upload or advocate on REVU (kblogger for example)). I plan to
                 help out with MOTU KDE/Kubuntu (most of my packages begin with the
                 letter K).
09:40 mdz        jpatrick: it looks like your message was truncated
09:40 mdz        I received:
09:40 mdz        I only did a few merges (kmymoney2 and kxdoc
09:40 mdz        <jpatrick> lp people on #ubuntu-motu
09:40 ogra       yeah, the mid part ...
09:40 mdz        (nothing between)
09:41 jpatrick   sorry, one second
                 I started MOTU and packaging things when people started asking for
09:41 jpatrick   packages at the Kubuntu Forums about five months ago, that's when I
                 decided to give it a try. My work can be found at my wikipage (
                 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PatrickDavies ).
                 While doing my first packages, I discovered REVU and started helping
09:41 jpatrick   out, I've placed some notes on the KubuntuPackagingGuide at the wiki. I
                 only did a few merges (kmymoney2 and kxdocker, I think). I helped fix a
                 YaKuake bug sometime ago.
                 I help people on #ubuntu-motu by reviewing their packages on IRC (with
09:41 jpatrick   no power to upload or advocate on REVU (kblogger for example)). I plan
                 to help out with MOTU KDE/Kubuntu (most of my packages begin with the
                 letter K).
09:42 dholbach   jpatrick: are you an Ubuntu member already?
09:42 jpatrick   dholbach: yes
09:42 mdz        jpatrick: who has been sponsoring your work so far?
09:42 dholbach   Ok.
09:42 jpatrick   mdz: Riddell's done all my uploads
09:42 mjg59      Riddell: How do you feel about the quality of the packages?
09:43 Riddell    mjg59: his packages often need some work, but he's very responsive to
                 fixing any problems
09:44 mdz        Riddell,jpatrick: I wasn't aware of KubuntuPackagingGuide until now; how
                 did it originate?
09:44 raphink    jpatrick is quite active in Ubuntu, and learns fast
09:45 jpatrick   mdz: was created some time ago to help get people packaging
09:45 mdz        jpatrick: by whom?
09:45 raphink    mdz: I think JRE created it
09:45 allee      JRe
09:45 jpatrick   mdz: Riddell, JRe
09:45 Riddell    it was JRe I think
09:45 raphink    :)
09:46 ogra       is JRe still active ? havent seen him for a while
09:46 raphink    and JRe is not even here ;)
09:46 mjg59      Well, consistency is good :)
09:46 jpatrick   ogra: he's mostly doing KDE work
09:46 raphink    ogra: yes he's active
09:46 ogra       ah
09:46 Riddell    ogra: he's very active, e.g. just wrote Keep as a new backup tool for
                 Kubuntu
09:46 raphink    ogra: JRe is busy on keep and katapult lately ;)
09:46 mdz        jpatrick: which of the packages on your page did you create based on
                 upstream software, and which are packages you contributed changes to?
09:46 ogra       oh, cool
09:48 jpatrick   mdz: only packages I've done from scracth is ksplash-engine-moodin
09:48 jpatrick   and kcontrol-kdetheme
09:48 raphink    jpatrick: where did others come from?
09:49 jpatrick   raphink: they were built up from Debian/Ubuntu files with new upstream
                 releases
09:52 mdz        is there anyone else present who has first-hand experience working with
                 jpatrick who would like to speak?
09:52 raphink    well if I might add something to that
09:52 jpatrick   allee has been helping me with kmplayer
09:52 raphink    I'd say I've seen the quality of his packages improve on REVU
09:52 raphink    although sometimes more checks would be nicer
09:53 raphink    but overall it ends up in pretty good stuff :)
09:53 mdz        is there any way to get a history of all REVU activity for a particular
                 user?
09:53 mdz        that would be useful
09:53 raphink    indeed
09:53 raphink    mdz: grepping the motu-reviewers mailing list might help
09:54 ogra       mdz, afaik thats planned for revu2  ... it was in the spec at ubz iirc
09:54 mdz        I see
09:55 mdz        jpatrick: what do you like most about working with the MOTU team?
09:55 atie       I'd hope to see what mdz saying from launchpad
09:56 dholbach   http://tauware.de/pipermail/motu-reviewers (unfortunately it doesn't
                 have people in the message subjects)
09:56 mdz        dholbach: any particular reason why that list isn't on lists.ubuntu.com?
=== Kyral [n=kyral@ubuntu/member/kyral] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:56 dholbach   mdz: siretart and sistpoty set it up as a quick solution (until revu2
                 was there)
09:56 jpatrick   mdz: to be honest I'm not too sure
09:57 mdz        jpatrick: well, why do you do it? ;-)
09:57 jpatrick   mdz: I like the feeling of helping out and developing
09:58 mdz        jpatrick: based on your experience, do you have any ideas about how the
                 team could work more effectively?
09:59 jpatrick   mdz: more revu-ing on KDE packages
09:59 mjg59      Heh
09:59 mjg59      jpatrick: Do you feel that KDE packages are held to the same standards
                 as Gnome ones right now?
09:59 mdz        jpatrick: meaning what?  there aren't enough reviewers to keep up with
                 packages needing review?
10:00 jpatrick   mdz: only Riddell and raphink really do KDE revu
10:00 jpatrick   mjg59: yes
10:00 mdz        I think the best solution to that is to recruit more KDE contributors,
                 who will gain experience and participate in review
10:01 mdz        fortunately there seems to be strong interest in this area recently ;-)
10:01 jpatrick   :)
10:01 atie       mdz, yes users love kubuntu too.
10:02 allee      jpatrick: if non motu could comment on revu, it would be better ;)
10:02 raphink    allee: you can send your comments to MOTUs, they will sponsor them
10:02 ogra       allee, that could quickly get messy ...
10:02 ogra       the way raphink describes leaves at least some control
                 I don't see any reason why non-motu shouldn't be able to comment, so
10:03 mdz        long as it was clear from the comment whether the person is a registered
                 developer or not
10:03 allee      ogra: sending e-mails or irc is not better (btw. siretart said it on
                 revu2 list)
10:04 Tonio_     raphink, although it is an exception, was commenting on REVU before
                 beeing MOTU
10:04 ogra       allee, afaik revu2 is planned to be included into launchpad ... there we
                 have account management etc ...
10:04 mdz        ok, we're getting a bit sidetracked into REVU discussion
10:04 ogra       yup...
10:05 ogra       and we already met the 1h mark
10:05 mdz        jpatrick: can you tell us a bit about kubuntu-es.org and your goals
                 there?
10:06 jpatrick   mdz: first thing is get the site back and try to encourage the kubuntu
                 spanish community to do some contributions :)
10:08 mjg59      jpatrick: Is there a strong Spanish KDE community?
10:08 jpatrick   mjg59: yes
10:08 mdz        jpatrick: how can we encourage more developer interest in that
                 community?
10:08 jpatrick   might be going to aKademy-es
10:09 jpatrick   I could translate the MOTU guides for packagers, etc
10:10 mjg59      jpatrick: What distributions are currently popular in Spain?
10:10 mjg59      (Especially KDE based ones)
10:11 jpatrick   I know some OpenSuse users and there's a crowd that's always in
######### kubuntu-es
10:11 mjg59      jpatrick: So, how do you think we can get hold of all the OpenSuse
                 users? :)
10:11 jpatrick   mjg59: the one i know used Kubuntu
10:11 mjg59      jpatrick: Heh
10:12 mdz        jpatrick: does opensuse offer particular advantages to the Spanish
                 community?
10:12 jpatrick   not that I know of :)
10:13 mjg59      jpatrick: What sort of community contributions do you envisage?
10:14 jpatrick   envisage?
10:14 mjg59      Imagine in the future
10:15 jpatrick   Translations, more packages and maybe more support at the forums
10:15 mjg59      Ok
10:15 jpatrick   and some coding for Kubuntu express maybe
=== Riddell notes that the University of La Laguna are making a kubuntu derivative
distribution
10:15 Riddell    and want to help with kubuntu express
10:16 mjg59      Riddell: Good news
10:16 mjg59      jpatrick: So do you feel happy with your packages being used by
                 (potentially) millions of people?
10:16 jpatrick   mjg59: I feel happy that they're happy :)
10:17 mdz        we need to move on, any further questions?
10:17 mjg59      I think I'm ok.
10:17 jpatrick   without having to compile the programs (which sometimes problems.)
10:18 mdz        ok, votes
10:19 mdz        +1 based on positive feedback on contributions to packages and developer
                 resources
10:20 mjg59      +1 for me, though with faint concern over package quality in the past
10:20 mjg59      But it sounds like you're dealing with that, so no problem
10:20 mdz        jpatrick: it wouldn't hurt to continue to participate in package reviews
10:20 jpatrick   yes, I plan to help the kde packages :)
10:20 mdz        extra eyes are always a good idea even for experienced developers
10:20 mdz        jpatrick: anyway, congratulations
10:21 jpatrick   thanks
10:21 Riddell    I hope he'll revu lots more in future, Tonio_  too :)
10:21 Tonio_     jpatrick: congrats ;)
10:21 ogra       congrats jpatrick
10:21 allee      congrats jpatrick
10:21 Tonio_     Riddell: that's on my plans ;)
10:21 sivang     congrets jpatrick
10:21 dholbach   congratulations jpatrick
10:21 raphink    congratulations jpatrick :)
10:21 dholbach   !!!REVU DAY TOMORROW!!!
10:21 raphink    welcome aboard :)
10:21 jpatrick   thanks everyone :)
10:21 dholbach   :-)
10:21 raphink    dholbach: yeah :)
10:21 Tonio_     dholbach: I'll be there ;)
10:22 jpatrick   count me in!
10:22 dholbach   ROCK! :)
10:22 Kyral      hmm REVU Day tomorrow..I should get a package uploaded soon then...
10:22 mdz        LaserJock: you're up
10:22 LaserJock  mdz: thanks
                 I'm a PhD physical chemistry student that has been hanging out with the
10:22 LaserJock  MOTU since about August. I am very interested in both good documentation
                 for MOTUs and wannabes and also looking after science related packages
                 in Universe.
                 I am a member of the documentation team and am the lead writer of the
10:22 LaserJock  Ubuntu Packaging Guide (very alpha at this point, but should be ready
                 for Dapper).
10:23 LaserJock  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuPackagingGuide
10:23 LaserJock  http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/packagingguide/C/index.html
                 I also started the MOTU Science team to try focus some effort on science
10:23 LaserJock  related packages in Universe. I broadly define science related as
                 packages in the math, science, and tex sections. About 450 source
                 packages in all.
10:23 LaserJock  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Teams/Science
10:23 LaserJock  sorry if that is a little too much
10:24 LaserJock  also, dholbach did an interview of me for the MOTU report at
                 https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2006-February/015279.html
10:24 mjg59      LaserJock: So what have you been packaging so far?
                 mjg59: I package plotdrop (http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=1344)
10:25 LaserJock  from scratch and it is now in Debian and I also took over a Debian ITP
                 for gausssum and it is now in unstable
10:25 LaserJock  I did ~ 10 merges for dapper and a few for Breezy
10:25 mjg59      LaserJock: Excellent
10:25 mjg59      Who's sponsored your uploads?
10:25 LaserJock  I'm starting a run through the science related packages
10:26 LaserJock  crismun, \sh, and bddebian (for breezy) are my main sponsors but they
                 don't seem to be available
10:26 LaserJock  azeem is my debian sponsor
=== ogra_ibook [n=ogra@ubuntu/member/ogra] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:26 LaserJock  I haven't had any complaints so far about my packaging. All of my merges
                 were accepted without changes
10:26 ogra_ibook grmbl
10:27 Riddell    LaserJock: have you looked at the KubuntuPackagingGuide page mentioned
                 earlier?  can it be merged into the Ubuntu Packaging Guide?
10:27 LaserJock  Riddell: yes, I have a section outlined for it
10:27 mjg59      LaserJock: Scientific programs are often licensed under bizarre non-free
                 licenses. How's your legalese?
10:27 mdz        LaserJock: it helps us a lot to hear from people who have reviewed your
                 packages first-hand
=== ogra is eager to grab some of the packages from LaserJock for dapper+1 edubuntu ;)
10:27 mdz        since we don't have time to do such a comprehensive review during the
                 meeting
10:27 azeem      the package I sponsored was well done, albeit not extremely difficult
                 either.
10:27 LaserJock  mdz: I understand
10:28 mdz        LaserJock: do you think you could arrange for them to attend the next
                 meeting, or perhaps send us some email with their thoughts?
10:28 azeem      I am very impressed by LJ's pursuit for MOTUScience and working together
                 with Debian
10:28 sistpoty   LaserJock has been around for a long time, and often hangs around in
                 -motu... his packaging skills (to what I've seen) are good
10:28 raphink    :)
                 mjg59: my leagalese isn't great but I've had to deal with some over in
10:28 LaserJock  the doc team. Science packages are tought that way. debian-science is
                 working on form emails for asking upstream for better licenses
10:28 jjesse     and he is doing a great job on the packagin guide along with contrib to
                 other doc team stuff
10:29 raphink    LaserJock is often around, he's helpful and makes good packages :)
=== sivang notes he was pleases to see the packaging guide taking form, something he
wisehd for since no-name-yet.com days.
10:29 mjg59      LaserJock: That sounds extremely worthwhile
10:29 sivang     s/pleases/pleased/
10:29 LaserJock  I'm working on good relations with debian-science
10:30 LaserJock  I somewhat naively sent an email about MOTU Science.
10:30 LaserJock  I got a lot of good feedback with some not-so-welcom feedback as well
10:30 mdz        sistpoty,raphink: have either of you sponsored his uploads?
10:30 LaserJock  but I was able to show the DDs what I was up to and satisfied most
10:31 raphink    mdz: no, I've reviewed some of his packages iirc, but never sponsored
                 any
10:31 dholbach   I can't remember, if I looked at any.
10:31 sistpoty   mdz: no, I didn't sponsor any packages either, at least not that I could
                 remember
10:32 LaserJock  I really wish crimsun could have made it
10:32 mdz        LaserJock: would you mind deferring to the next meeting?  we've run a
                 bit long, and it would be beneficial for your sponsors to attend
10:32 LaserJock  mdz: I don't mind
10:33 mdz        LaserJock: I appreciate it
10:33 mdz        is freeflying here?
10:33 mdz        he proposed a discussion item
10:33 mdz        but I don't think he's here
10:33 atie       mdz, he isn't here
10:34 atie       mdz, but I can speak up for the item.
10:34 jpatrick   mdz: he is sleeping
10:34 atie       and ok with next meeting too
10:34 mdz        atie: if we could defer, so that freeflying can participate and we have
                 more time, that would be good
10:34 mdz        atie: if it's urgent, feel free to send me mail and we can discuss that
                 way as well
10:34 atie       mdz, no problem
10:35 mdz        atie: thanks, will you communicate that to freeflying as well?
10:35 atie       mdz, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BetterCJKSupportSpecification/FontConfig
                 atie: It would probably be helpful if it could be written up in a little
10:35 mjg59      more detail - I didn't get a good idea what the issue was from the
                 thread
10:35 atie       mjg59, I agree.
10:35 atie       but can we make a channel with someone in core dev?
10:36 atie       to discuss detail before meeting
10:36 Riddell    freeflying said huahua would speak for it, I've just pinged him
10:36 mdz        atie: sure
10:36 mdz        atie: feel free to ping me anytime before the next meeting
10:36 atie       mdz, could you let me know whom?
10:36 atie       mdz, sure
10:37 mdz        atie: ok, thanks
10:37 mdz        I think we need to adjourn
10:37 mdz        please mail me about anything which can't wait until the next meeting
10:37 mdz        thanks, everyone

</pre>
