{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

05:05 seb128     where is herr holbach?
05:08 mvo        seb128: I talked to him some minutes ago, he should be here any
                 minute
05:08 seb128     k
05:09 mvo        seb128: how is your reading going? what book are you? and where :) ?
05:09 seb128     I've not read, as usual when starting IRC, got stuff to do :p
05:09 Nafallo    dholbach says that he can't connect to freenode.
05:09 seb128     I was going to when I remembered the meeting was 20 min later
05:10 mvo        what is the nice of j5 on irc? is it j5 :) ?
05:10 seb128     yep
=== dholbach [n=daniel@u5-32.dsl.vianetworks.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:11 dholbach   hi
05:11 dholbach   sorry, i'm late
05:11 dholbach   just couldn't connect to freenode
05:11 Nafallo    welcome back dholbach :-)
=== dholbach looks around him, says "home" :)
05:12 jsgotangco oh desktop meeting eh?
05:13 seb128     lol
05:13 dholbach   so who's here for the desktop team meeting :)
05:13 mvo        ahhhh
05:14 mvo        welcome dholbach !
05:14 dholbach   you were waiting for me?
05:14 dholbach   i'm so touched
05:14 seb128     yep
05:14 mvo        sure
=== dholbach sniffs
=== dholbach is Daniel Holbach
=== jsgotangco would love to be part of the gnome love
05:14 dholbach   ok
=== dholbach looks at the Meeting Agenda
05:15 dholbach   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/MeetingIdeas
05:15 dholbach   so what do we have achieved since the last time?
05:15 seb128     UDN
05:15 seb128     thanks vuntz :)
05:15 dholbach   yeah, that was a blast
05:15 seb128     now we have lot of new people on the list
05:15 seb128     time to have rocking ideas on make the list active :)
05:16 dholbach   we should really focus on getting our crazy ideas to the list asap
05:16 seb128     yep
05:16 dholbach   but it seems to hard to convert ourselves from the irc-centric
                 approach we take, no? :)
05:16 dholbach   mvo for example could take the discussion about dbus/notify there
=== Nafallo will have to read the minutes. girlfriend is demanding today...
=== mvo is michael vogt
=== seb128 is seb128
05:17 dholbach   because that will something that will affect huge parts and if we can
                 discuss it and get people involved
05:18 mvo        we will need to recompile a bit for both main and universe, seb128
                 already prepared a list for main
05:18 seb128     23 packages for main
05:18 seb128     let me run it on universe
05:18 dholbach   62+46 all in all (-1-1 and glib-1-1)
=== seb128 kicks dholbach for saying crap :p
05:19 seb128     19 for universe
05:19 seb128     23 for main
05:19 mvo        seb128: do you use grep-dctrl?
05:19 seb128     grep-available in fact
05:19 seb128     with some | | to get source packages instead of binary
=== Amaranth [n=travis@ubuntu/member/amaranth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:20 dholbach   mvo: do you think there will be lots to patch?
05:20 mvo        so far everything compiled
05:20 mvo        but I'm not 100% sure
05:21 dholbach   cool
05:21 mvo        we may run into some issues
05:21 seb128     is there a way to remove '\n' ?
05:21 mvo        otoh gnome is going to depend on it for 2.14 anyway, no?
05:21 seb128     ie: for a file
05:21 seb128     1
05:21 seb128     2
05:21 seb128     to cat it | sed 's#\n##' or something
05:24 dholbach   seb128: sorry, dunno
05:24 dholbach   mvo: we could write a mail to u-d-a and just go with it in a big
                 upload over a weekend, so there's no (too big) breakage :)
05:26 seb128     yeah, tr works for that :p
                 "avahi banshee gnome-power-manager gnome-screensaver gnome-user-share
05:26 seb128     gpe-contacts gpsd libgalago libipoddevice liferea network-manager
                 power-manager thoggen totem vlc xchat-gnome xfce4-terminal xfmedia
                 xterminal"
05:26 seb128     for main
                 "bluez-pin bluez-utils dbus epiphany-browser evince evolution
05:26 seb128     gnome-applets gnome-utils gnome-vfs2 gnome-volume-manager hal ivman
                 k3b kdebase libgpod libnotify nautilus-cd-burner notification-daemon
                 pmount rhythmbox screem totem update-notifier"
05:26 Amaranth   whoa
05:26 dholbach   that doesn't look too bad
05:27 dholbach   :)
05:27 seb128     those are the source rdepends of libdbus-1-1, 1 is universe, second
                 is main
05:27 Amaranth   what is changing?
05:27 Amaranth   ah
05:27 mvo        nice!
05:29 dholbach   mvo: ok, so we try the breakage first locally and then shove it to
                 the people?
05:29 mvo        good plan I think
05:29 dholbach   cool
05:30 seb128     mvo: but what happens when new dbus hit the archive?
05:30 seb128     apps are broken and need a rebuild NOW?
05:30 seb128     binary package name change?
05:30 mvo        binary package name changes
05:30 mvo        so when dbus hits the archive nothing happens
05:30 seb128     oh, nice
05:30 seb128     clean transition so
05:31 dholbach   seb128: we do it the doko way: do a million uploads at once :)
05:31 mvo        but once we start building the first apps we need to be quick :)
05:31 mvo        yes
05:31 dholbach   we can split up and do it over the weekend or over night :)
05:31 seb128     what happens if apps built with 2 different versions try to
                 communicate?
05:31 mvo        of course we first need a building dbus *cough*
05:31 Nafallo    today!? :-D
05:31 raphink    slomo: could you advocate http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=1163
                 again please?
05:31 mvo        shock and awe
05:31 seb128     we get 2 busses and they don't reach each other
05:31 seb128     or BUM?:)
05:32 slomo      raphink: wrong channel ;P
05:32 mvo        in theory it might work, but in reality -> bum
05:32 raphink    oops sorry
05:32 raphink    :(
05:32 raphink    hehe
05:32 seb128     mvo: bum like app crashing?
05:32 dholbach   seb128: isnt 'boum' the french way of crashing? ;)
05:32 seb128     or just dbus feature not working fine?
05:32 seb128     dholbach: yeah, but that's an english meeting :p
05:32 seb128     haha :)
05:32 dholbach   :)
05:33 mvo        I had panel freezes for examples
05:33 seb128     panel doesn't use dbus
05:33 dholbach   we'll see how it works out... a warning on u-d-a should be
                 appropriate :)
05:33 seb128     see my list :p
05:33 mvo        but some applets do
05:33 seb128     applets should not be able to take the panel down
05:33 seb128     I blame vuntz
05:33 dholbach   "should" :)
05:33 seb128     vuntz|away: HERE, NOW :)
05:34 dholbach   haha
05:34 seb128     mvo: anyway, 20 package is no big deal, with 2-3 people on it, it's a
                 matter of one hour
05:34 dholbach   yeah
05:34 sivang     desktop team meeting?
05:34 sivang     or doc-team ?
05:34 dholbach   desktop, still :)
05:34 seb128     guess?
05:35 Nafallo    those packages are only main? :-)
05:35 dholbach   Nafallo: universe uploads! :)
05:35 Nafallo    sivang: no, the docteam has to rebuild 20 packages :-)
05:35 seb128     Nafallo: quite the same number for universe
05:35 Nafallo    yay! something for me todo :-D
05:35 seb128     :)
                 seb128: we'll set up a wiki page, where everybody can take his share
05:36 dholbach   of packages and we organize it, before we actually do it, does that
                 sound smart?
05:36 Nafallo    dholbach: yes oh humble wikigod :-)
05:36 seb128     that sounds not required for me
05:36 dholbach   no?
05:36 seb128     20 packages, I can give 7 to you, 7 to mvo and take 6
=== mpt [n=mpt@200-171-140-32.dsl.telesp.net.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:36 dholbach   yeah + universe
05:36 seb128     and we are done in one hour
05:37 seb128     the transition is small enough to be handled on IRC imho
05:37 Nafallo    seb128: do you have the list of packages somewhere? :-)
05:37 dholbach   *nod*
05:37 seb128     but that's because I don't like to wait for hours on wiki every time
                 I do an upload
05:37 seb128     if you want to wiki stuff feel free
05:37 Nafallo    good point ;-)
05:37 seb128     I'll ping you on IRC to update my uploads :p
05:37 dholbach   no, but just to share it before we do it :)
05:37 dholbach   haha
05:37 seb128     Nafallo: I copied it like 20 lines up
05:37 dholbach   apart from dbus/notify we need to discuss how to get the pile of bugs
                 managed - the situation is desparate since flight 2
05:38 \sh        seb128: send the universe packages to ubuntu-motu ML :)
05:38 doko       seb128: do these packages need changes?
05:38 seb128     hum, rather like 60 lines now :)
05:38 Amaranth   11 minutes ago
05:38 seb128     doko: that's a good point, a few probably
=== sivang apologizes *again* for missing a meeting, there seem to be an exponetionaly
growing number of them
05:38 seb128     Debian is like to have the patches ready though, sjoerd was working
                 on that yesterday
05:38 Nafallo    oh, I've feed universe + screem to apt-get source now ;-)
05:39 seb128     GNOME is current dbus complient
05:39 sivang     what packages needs work this time nbesides merger etc?
05:39 dholbach   seb128: cool
05:39 seb128     mvo: have you tried to rebuild stuff with your new dbus?
05:40 mvo        seb128: yes, some stuff, hal, pmount, gnome-media,
                 nautilus-cd-burner, evince
05:40 seb128     need patching?
05:40 mvo        no, build fine so far
05:40 seb128     good
05:40 seb128     I was expecting that for GNOME
05:41 seb128     brb
05:41 dholbach   cool
05:41 Nafallo    ehm, I get 404 on the dbus orig.tar.gz
05:41 dholbach   where?
05:41 Nafallo    (apt-proxy -> archive.u.c)
=== fabbione [n=fabbione@port49.ds1-van.adsl.cybercity.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:41 dholbach   hm, might be temporarily
05:42 dholbach   but all in all it seems quite straightforward
05:43 dholbach   as i said before, i'd really like to know, what you guys think about
                 the bug matter
05:44 dholbach   i think that regular bug days are a good start, but what can we do
                 apart from that?
05:44 sivang     dbus rebuild? seems fairly easy to do, where the package list? :)
05:44 dholbach   sivang: please read the backlog, seb posted it
05:44 seb128     dholbach: bug days like every week or every 2 weeks
05:45 seb128     but we need people available/responsive the whole day
05:45 seb128     tracking what people do
05:45 sivang     dholbach: ok, thanks
=== paulproteus|lapt [n=paulprot@pool-151-196-244-173.balt.east.verizon.net] has
joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:45 mvo        how many people (roughly) attend to bug days?
05:45 dholbach   i can't really tell
05:45 dholbach   since it's quite "new"
05:45 dholbach   last time there were like always 10 doing stuff actively at a time
05:45 seb128     mvo: 10-20
05:46 sivang     dholbach: what's the approach to not stepping on each ones toes when
                 working on bugs? do you assign them to yourself for that?
05:46 seb128     sivang: read the backlog
05:46 dholbach   sivang: no, we don't do that
05:46 seb128     oh, not speaking about dbus
05:46 dholbach   we had categories of bugs mentioned on
                 http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay
05:46 Nafallo    dholbach: I can start dropping build-deps on libxdmcp-dev now?
05:46 seb128     there is enough bug to not step on another one when picking one
                 usually
=== mpt [n=mpt@200-171-140-32.dsl.telesp.net.br] has left #ubuntu-meeting
["http://mpt.net.nz/"]
05:46 dholbach   Nafallo: if libx11 has built, yes
05:46 seb128     Nafallo: yeah, was a bad idea to do that
=== sivang reads
05:47 dholbach   like UNCONFIRMED ones, NEEDINFO ones, ...
05:47 dholbach   and people told what they were looking at
05:47 seb128     Nafallo: fix the issue instead of workaround wrongly half of the
                 world :)
05:47 dholbach   apart from that, there were people working on MOTU bugs (in malone),
                 other on bugzilla, ...
05:47 Nafallo    seb128: indeed :-)
05:47 dholbach   i hope that our call for kubuntu folks, motu folks, other folks will
                 get different people involved, so we can tackle bugs equally
05:48 dholbach   but surely, as a desktop team we'd love to see desktop-bugs@ fixed
                 asap :)
05:48 dholbach   fixed/triaged
05:49 dholbach   it's a bit hard to get people working on bugs, they don't seem to
                 have a special affiliation to it
05:49 seb128     yeah, especially distro bugs
05:49 seb128     we should make "specialized lists"
05:49 dholbach   seb128: the situation on universe bugs is even worse
05:49 dholbach   to be frank
05:50 seb128     like "GNOMish bugs", "KDEish bug", "installer bugs"
05:50 seb128     dholbach: I'm not quite convinced
05:50 dholbach   that might make sense, do you think we should have separate days for
                 those?
05:50 seb128     maybe not
05:50 seb128     but have clear list during the bug day
05:50 dholbach   seb128: if i look at my universe bugs mail box that's the impression
                 i get, they are assigned, but not triaged
05:50 seb128     so people can focus on what they are interested it
05:50 seb128     s/it/in/
05:50 dholbach   yeah
05:51 dholbach   that definitely sounds good
05:51 seb128     dholbach: malone generates a lot of noise
05:51 dholbach   :)
05:51 dholbach   yes
05:51 seb128     I read new bugs on malone quite often since there is no assignee by
                 default
05:51 seb128     to figure where GNOME bugs are
05:51 seb128     and most of the flood are your syncs
05:51 dholbach   i always look at the unassigned list
05:52 dholbach   ... first
05:52 dholbach   i feel that we need a separate team, maybe we should get t-shirts out
                 to members of the "Ubuntu Bug Squad" :)
05:53 dholbach   people in #ubuntu-bugs surely feel "lost" somehow
05:53 dholbach   i saw that in the days after the bug day
05:53 mvo        some sort of reward will certainly motivate
05:53 dholbach   people were getting in and thought "hello, anybody here?"
05:53 seb128     I was wondering if we should split bug days
05:53 dholbach   split in what way?
05:54 seb128     like have desktopish triagging on #ubuntu-desktop
05:54 dholbach   mvo: we should talk to mark about that
05:54 seb128     instead of #ubuntu-bugs
05:54 sivang     ok, so new dbus version?
05:54 sivang     :)
05:54 dholbach   but that way we will always have bugs not being touched
=== sivang read changlog in the quickest way ever
05:54 dholbach   sivang: do you have a big irc lag?
05:55 dholbach   not meant to be rude, but we're talking bugs atm :)
05:55 sivang     dholbach: erm , I don't think so - maybe, why?
05:55 sivang     eh!
05:55 sivang     no , it's ok - my brain is lagging, not irc
05:55 seb128     dholbach: right, but we can still have a part of the triage on
######### ubuntu-bugs
05:56 dholbach   it might sound stupid, but maybe we should talk bug discussions over
                 there?
05:56 dholbach   mvo: any idea on those rewards?
05:57 dholbach   seb128: do you know of other bug teams around the open source world,
                 apart from gnome?
05:57 mvo        t-shirts, a special thanks mail from leading comunity people (like
                 dholbach)
05:57 mvo        that sort of thing
05:57 dholbach   haha
05:57 mvo        menitoning on a webpage
05:57 dholbach   that sounds cool yes
05:57 seb128     dholbach: nop
05:57 mvo        or a minutes from the bug-day
05:57 mvo        with special mentinoing etc
=== jsgotangco starts to blog gnome desktop is awesome!
05:58 sivang     but people should not do it just for getting some reward or karma, as
                 seb128 once noted. I think he's was right.
05:58 dholbach   we should raise more awareness of those people just getting involved
05:58 dholbach   like those "everybody look, seb128's first upload to the
                 archive"-mails :)
05:58 seb128     I didn't say that
05:59 seb128     reward/karma can motivate people for sure
05:59 sivang     maybe we need to have a bugs day report, where people working were
                 mentioned (even if they fixed bugs, of if they did not)
05:59 seb128     but that's not a reason to make useless stuff only to get karma
05:59 dholbach   sivang: sure not, but people willing to contribute usually have
                 contributions of good quality
05:59 sivang     dholbach: agreed
05:59 sivang     seb128: true
05:59 sivang     but t-shirts would be nice :)
=== jsgotangco begs for one
                 I think that if we care not to make too much distinction between
06:00 sivang     epople the take part in this day, we'll eventually get a nice steady
                 community of bug squad people
06:00 dholbach   guys, do bug triage!
06:00 dholbach   i will talk to mark for every t-shirt personally
=== jsgotangco will make sure to bring a poster of dholbach during WWE
06:00 sivang     jsgotangco: WWE?
06:00 dholbach   even if i have to buy them, i'll do it
06:01 jsgotangco sivang, world wrestling entertainment heh
06:01 sivang     eh, :)
06:01 dholbach   seb128: we should do a nice t-shirt design session and i'll sent them
                 out
06:01 dholbach   s/sent/send
06:01 Nafallo    jsgotangco: did he win against who? :-)
06:02 seb128     dholbach: I'm not the guy you want to ping about design stuff :p
06:02 dholbach   so who of you will get heavily busy with us next week (21st)? and who
                 of you honestly noticed bug day on 21st?
06:02 dholbach   seb128: thanks... we'll do it just fine :)
06:03 dholbach   big silence... sure, i understand... "blah... christmas presents...
                 blah...", sure :)
06:04 dholbach   if, so if nobody has to say anything, we should move to other topics
06:04 seb128     move
06:05 dholbach   what do you want to see in the desktop team next? :-)
06:05 dholbach   people seem to have high expectations in the team
06:05 dholbach   (hence the big amount of subscribers on the list)
06:05 dholbach   but it doesnt seem to be clear what people can do
06:05 dholbach   is that observation accurate?
06:06 jsgotangco yes
06:06 seb128     use the wiki to put task
06:06 seb128     don't hesitate to use the list to raise discussion instead of IRC
06:06 seb128     to ask for new cool stuff, opinion on it, etc
06:06 seb128     maybe some weekly bug triaging stats
06:06 seb128     how many bug we got
06:07 seb128     how many we closed
06:07 dholbach   maybe i should do a day with s/#ubuntu-desktop/ubuntu-desktop@
06:07 seb128     the top 5 of bug closers
06:07 seb128     daily work discussion are not suitable for a list
06:07 seb128     I think this page is nice:
                 http://bugzilla.gnome.org/reports/weekly-bug-summary.html
06:08 seb128     we should have a weekly summary for Ubuntu too
                 i just thought about it, but maybe if we could take more of our usual
06:08 dholbach   workflow to the mailing list, people would have a "glimpse into what
                 happens everyday"
06:08 seb128     people like to see how things are going/moving
06:08 sivang     dholbach++
06:08 dholbach   who are our bugzilla experts? jdub?
06:08 sivang     seb128: but also like to see them logged in a mailing list, when it's
                 easy to go back
06:08 seb128     dholbach: we already said that, and I tried to mail the list
06:08 sivang     seb128: oh
06:08 seb128     I did for the session dialog, gconf changes, asking for the panel
                 launchers and stuff
06:09 seb128     dholbach: yeah, jdub I guess
06:09 dholbach   yeah, maybe i didn't try hard enough
06:09 dholbach   i'll try harder
06:09 dholbach   new pages on the wiki, new things we're planning "at some stage", ...
06:10 sivang     dholbach: make sure you send it to the list as well, and try to
                 create discussion there
06:10 dholbach   sivang: i was talking about the list
06:10 sivang     ah ok
06:10 dholbach   that sounds sound
06:10 dholbach   mvo: you mail to the list first... dbus / notify stuff! YAY :)
06:10 sivang     dholbach: you said "wiki pages.." , that's why I Was wondering.
06:11 dholbach   it was in context to what seb said before
06:12 dholbach   seb128: you think jdub will make such a weekly-bug-summary happen?
06:12 seb128     no
06:12 dholbach   *nod*
=== jsgotangco starts journey to neverneverland
06:12 mvo        dholbach: I first need to make it build again
06:12 seb128     but it's easy to have some standard queries to get stats and to
                 include that to a weekly mail
06:12 seb128     like UDN
06:12 dholbach   mvo: ok
06:12 dholbach   seb128: i'll look into it
06:13 dholbach   and set a big reminder every week :)
06:13 seb128     dholbach: ask vuntz about it, he already did some stat on
                 bugzilla.ubuntu like that
06:13 dholbach   cool
=== dholbach hugs vuntz in absentia
06:13 dholbach   are there some other points somebody would like to raise?
06:14 dholbach   ok
06:14 dholbach   i think for a rather ad-hoc meeting this went quite well
06:14 dholbach   and it makes me happy to see, that there's always enough to discuss
                 in ubuntu-dektop :)
06:14 dholbach   if nobody steps up to it, i'll write the minutes
06:15 jsgotangco :D
06:15 dholbach   and send them to ubuntu-desktop@ :)
06:15 sivang     dholbach: also, make sure you send the stuff about what seb talked in
                 the backlog :)
=== sivang seems to have trouble parsing the backlog correctly.
06:15 dholbach   hey vuntz
06:15 vuntz      hey
06:15 vuntz      :-)
06:15 dholbach   vuntz: any points you'd like to raise for the desktop meeting
06:15 dholbach   ?
06:16 Riddell    I have a brief question
06:16 dholbach   Riddell: fire away
06:16 Riddell    what's the status of gstreamer 0.10 support in apps?
06:16 dholbach   seb128: :-)
06:17 vuntz      dholbach: no special points
06:17 dholbach   vuntz: unspecial ones?
06:17 vuntz      err. don't think so :-)
06:17 seb128     Riddell: for GNOME most of them are ported
06:17 vuntz      ah
06:18 vuntz      don't forget to send new stuff on the list or to me so that it can be
                 in UDN
06:18 seb128     Riddell: we will ship dapper with gst010 no gst08, is that an issue
                 for KDE?
06:18 vuntz      seb128: we could ship both if necessary
                 vuntz: what do you think about doing weekly bug stats (how many new
06:18 seb128     bugs, closed, forwarded, top 5 bug closers, etc) (like
                 http://bugzilla.gnome.org/reports/weekly-bug-summary.html)?
06:18 vuntz      seb128: good idea
06:18 seb128     vuntz: no we can't
06:19 vuntz      I wanted to add a section like this in UDN, btw
06:19 vuntz      seb128: why can't we?
06:19 Riddell    seb128: amarok will probably be ported to gstreamer 0.10 soon, but
                 there's no plans for kaffeine to be currently
06:19 seb128     vuntz: pitti will track me down :p
06:19 dholbach   vuntz: great!
06:19 seb128     vuntz: anti-duplication front :)
06:19 vuntz      seb128: if KDE needs it, we can
06:19 vuntz      it doesn't mean GNOME will use it :-)
06:19 seb128     vuntz: right, but better to not
06:20 dholbach   there's a bit of time until release :)
06:20 Riddell    yeah, I just need to persuade them that they'll look old-fashioned if
                 they still use gstreamer0.8
06:20 seb128     vuntz: depending on what you mean "ship", we will not on the CD for
                 sure
06:20 vuntz      seb128: not the Ubuntu CD, but if KDE needs it, it can be on the
                 Kubuntu one. Can't it?
06:20 dholbach   Riddell: haha, that's the best point you can make, for sue :)
06:20 vuntz      but I agree it's better to have only 0.10
06:20 seb128     vuntz: yeah, no issue for that, it just has to be in main
06:21 seb128     but pitti would be happy if we can move 0.8 to universe
06:21 seb128     because main means we will have to support it for 3 years
06:21 vuntz      and everyone would be happy. Not just pitti :-)
06:21 seb128     and upstream already stopped supporting it
06:21 seb128     so that's like maintaining it for 3.5 years over upstream
06:22 dholbach   ouch :)
06:23 dholbach   if that gives answers to the question, we close the meeting, no? :)
06:23 dholbach   ok, meeting closed
06:24 dholbach   have a nice day

</pre>
