{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the 1st meeting of the ScribesTeam, starting at 20:03 GMT and finishing at 21:40 GMT

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT at the start of the meeting to ensure we are all clear who is online and paying attention.
Active Atendees:
* Seeker`  - ChrisOattes
* Ausimage
* Loudmouthman / butlershouse - NikButler
* popey - AlanPope
* AndrewWilliams
* PriceChild
* StephenStalcup

== Agenda ==
When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
 
* Introduction - Who are we and what do we want to do? - ChrisOattes
* Any questions / comments on what we are trying to do

== Minutes ==

'''<nowiki>[[#Topic1|Topic: what do/will the scribes do]]</nowiki>'''

 20:05:44 	'''IDEA''' 	ausimage: 	archive the many meetings and events in a central place

 20:14:06 	'''IDEA''' 	loudmouthman: 	find people willing to sponsor/use the bot and train them in its implementation.

 20:18:47 	'''IDEA''' 	loudmouthman: 	define what searches are avaialble and can be done.

 20:23:56 	'''ACTION''' 	Seeker` to talk to Seveas about ubotu code

'''<nowiki>[[#Topic2|Topic: Bot and logging]]</nowiki>'''

 20:30:35 	'''IDEA''' 	loudmouthman: 	ask the loco/dev teams to help collate the logs by submitting relevant links on a wiki page ?

 20:34:41 	'''ACTION''' 	loudmouthman to get submitting links to logs on loco meeting agenda

'''<nowiki>[[#Topic3|Topic: Process]]</nowiki>'''

 20:40:31 	'''ACTION''' 	Next Meeting: Review raising interest

 20:42:17 	'''IDEA''' 	Seeker`: 	encourage at least 1 member of each team to join -scribes, so they can each work on their own meeting notes

 20:53:28 	'''ACTION''' 	Seeker` to write up process, Add to next meeting agenda for approval

'''<nowiki>[[#Topic4|Topic: A calendar. Why do we need it?]]</nowiki>'''

 21:05:42 	'''ACTION''' 	Ausimage to research the calendar and report back next meeting

'''<nowiki>[[#Topic5:|Topic: The bot]]</nowiki>'''

'''<nowiki>[[#Topic7|Topic: Bot I: Eggdrop or ubotu]]</nowiki>'''

'''<nowiki>[[#Topic8|Topic: BOT II: Always in channel? or auto join]]</nowiki>'''

 21:18:41 	'''IDEA''' 	loudmouthman: 	then we approach Jono for the next point of contact in hosting stuff on freenode.

 21:24:23 	'''AGREED'''	Mootbot to be made join on request, with handlers to make the bot join

 21:24:41 	'''AGREED''' 	AndrewWilliams able to provide low traffic hosting

 21:27:26 	'''IDEA''' 	loudmouthman: 	mootbot should take [LINK] to record them as well.

 21:27:55 	'''ACTION''' 	Seeker` to implement link function

'''<nowiki>[[#Topic9|Topic: Specs]]</nowiki>'''

'''<nowiki>[[#Topic8|Topic: Any other suggestions]]</nowiki>'''

== Any Other Business ==

* 
* 

== IRC LOGS ==

<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-scribes
[20:03:40] <Seeker`> Welcome to the first Ubuntu Scribes meeting
[20:04:07] <Seeker`> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MeetingNotes/20070205Meeting
[20:04:15] <Seeker`> The agenda for the meeting can be found there
[20:04:27] <Seeker`> althoughthere isnt much there :P
[20:04:40] * ausimage knows there is lots to do
[20:04:56] <Seeker`> First of all, what is the scribes team about?
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(Topic1)]]</nowiki><pre>
[20:05:08]<Seeker`> [Topic] what do/will the scribes do
[20:05:22] <butlershouse> Seeker` what would you suggest ? i have a few ideas .
[20:05:44] <ausimage> [Idea] archive the many meetings and events in a central place
[20:05:45] <Seeker`> Basically, weI was going to explain what the basic idea of the team is
[20:06:04] <butlershouse> goforit .
[20:06:05] <Seeker`> Basically, we want to create a central repository of meeting logs and minutes
[20:06:33] <Seeker`> And make sure that these logs are of a high quality, so that anyone can see what went on at each meeting with relative ease
[20:06:52] <Seeker`> currently, the meeting notes are spread all over the wiki, with a lot of teams recording just the raw logs
[20:07:10] <Seeker`> An example of what I would call "good" logging is the UKTeam minutes
[20:07:24] <Seeker`> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20070110Meeting
[20:07:45] <PriceChild> wow
[20:07:47] <butlershouse> I feel also that encouraging structure for meetings will ecourage people to keep attending and keep moving forward.
[20:08:07] <Seeker`> that is how they currently record their meetings, which make it quite clear what was discussed and what was decided in each case
[20:08:13] <Seeker`> butlershouse: Agreed
[20:08:13] <butlershouse> which in turn makes meeting collation better.
[20:08:25] <butlershouse> bugger
[20:08:39] * ausimage agrees with Seeker` et al on the structure bit
[20:08:50] <Seeker`> Now, to make the process of summarising meeting easier, I have created mootbot
[20:09:12] <Seeker`> Mootbot logs what happens during the meetings
[20:09:20] <loudmouthman> better.
[20:09:34] <Seeker`> and also produces a summary of the meeting by using various tags
[20:09:55] <Seeker`> These tags help to formalise the structure of the meeting
[20:10:04] <Seeker`> where a topic is defined with the [topic] tag
[20:10:10] <Seeker`> ideas are suggested using [idea]
[20:10:25] <Seeker`> the bot also allows votes to take place, and it counts the votes for / against
[20:10:37] <Seeker`> and then any actions are marked with the [action] tag
[20:11:10] <Seeker`> There are several different tasks that need to be carried out by this team.
[20:11:21] <loudmouthman> you forgot AGREED as well.
[20:11:46] <Seeker`> yes, there is also agreed to mark the final decision on a topic
[20:11:51] <Seeker`> There are several different tasks that need to be carried out by this team.
[20:12:00] <Seeker`> 1: Try to promote the use of mootbot and the meeting structure within other teams
[20:12:10] <Seeker`> 2. Collect the exisiting logs, and try to improve them
[20:12:17] <Seeker`> 3. Continue to develop mootbot
[20:13:04] <Seeker`> I belive that these 3 tasks are the core functions of ubuntu-scribes
[20:13:13] <loudmouthman> I think those who use the bot will see the structure because it needs it and realise the value of the minutes being generated so hopefully focus on 1 will help with 2 and 3.
[20:13:34] <Seeker`> yes, I agree wit hthat
[20:13:57] <Seeker`> Ausimage has been collating a list of different locations in the wiki that contain exisitng logs
[20:14:00] <Seeker`> it is linked from the wiki page
[20:14:06] <loudmouthman> [IDEA] find people willing to sponsor/use the bot and train them in its implementation.
[20:14:21] <ausimage> what about promoting the central repository
[20:14:22] <Seeker`> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MeetingNotes/20070205Meeting
[20:14:48] <Seeker`> As you can see there are quite a few different places to find logs, and not all of them are very well structured
[20:14:55] <Seeker`> loudmouthman: Good idea
[20:15:08] <AndrewWilliams> maybe it needs its own dedicated platform
[20:15:12] <AndrewWilliams> away from the wiki
[20:15:36] <Seeker`> hmm
[20:15:47] <ausimage> i would add also getting the meeting schedule out there for all teams.....
[20:15:54] <loudmouthman> AusImage where the central logs should comein handy is for example in enabling people to see if Agenda items have been discussed/planned by other teams and locos . possibly
[20:16:17] <loudmouthman> but yes a god schedule and format to the meetings will help collate and TAG stuff quicker.
[20:16:31] <Seeker`> Does anyone here have any close ties to other groups?
[20:16:41] <AndrewWilliams> ausimage, yes, even if they don't use moot we could probably convert them on their behalf
[20:16:45] <ausimage> Yeah... my biggest complaint is that you cannot just goto one place and see what is going on...
[20:16:47] <Seeker`> Specifically, would they be able to advocate the use of the bot in their meetings
[20:17:17] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: Where would you suggest hosting them?
[20:17:21] <loudmouthman> I think pricechild does. e.g. forums. and id like to see it used in loco-team meetings.
[20:17:23] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: And how?
[20:17:31] <PriceChild> Seeker`, I'm trying to get our forum council secretary in here
[20:18:01] <AndrewWilliams> well, its not exactly a day one idea. Just thinking that the Wiki's search isn't the greatest
[20:18:19] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: True
[20:18:21] <AndrewWilliams> and it would be interesting to tag meetings by topics
[20:18:27] <loudmouthman> doesnt google link into the wiki for us ... ? but thats a seperate topic .
[20:18:42] <AndrewWilliams> loudmouthman, good point, neve thought of that
[20:18:47] <loudmouthman> [IDEA] define what searches are avaialble and can be done.
[20:19:20] <Seeker`> Looking at the long list of existing logs, is it feasible to try to convert the existing logs, or do we just concentrate on getting them into one place and then try to get any new meetings up to standard?
[20:19:44] <popey> moo
[20:19:46] <loudmouthman> I think mootbot is like any good open source project its take up will be viral and meme based so possible can divide the scribes teams into two tasks. 1] moot bot interest 2] search engine results.
[20:19:47] * ausimage had thought of LP as well, but that gets messy too
[20:19:52] <Seeker`> It would be nice to have a definitive list of meetings, but the number of manhours it would take is absolutely huge
[20:20:17] <popey> coming in mid-conversation
[20:20:22] <loudmouthman> seeker i think its easier to move forward than scrape backwards .
[20:20:23] <AndrewWilliams> converting old logs should a low priority
[20:20:26] <popey> could mootbot interrogate the bot in #ubuntu-meetings ?
[20:20:27] * Seeker` prods popey, "You shoulda come earlier"
[20:20:30] <popey> bot-to-bot like?
[20:20:52] <Seeker`> popey: Not sure - It may be difficult as ubotu etc. are python based
[20:20:55] <ausimage> I would encourage some sort of submital process to get all the meetings.....
[20:20:59] <Seeker`> i dont know how easy it will be to integrate them
[20:21:02] <popey> why would that be a problem?
[20:21:06] <popey> you ask them questions
[20:21:08] <popey> they reply
[20:21:11] <popey> you take the answer
[20:21:15] <Seeker`> hmm
[20:21:16] <PriceChild> Seeker`, what's mootbot based on?
[20:21:18] <popey> you do what a human does
[20:21:21] <Seeker`> that would probably be possible
[20:21:28] <Seeker`> PriceChild: Eggdrop. The script is written in TCL
[20:21:33] <PriceChild> hmm ok
[20:21:55] <popey> would it be better to take the ubotu code and modify it to suit?
[20:22:27] <Seeker`> popey: I've never written a bot using the framework that ubotu uses - I dont know how easy it would be to convert
[20:22:35] <Seeker`> it is certainly something I could look in to
[20:22:36] <PriceChild> ubotu's just had a HUGE rewrite...
[20:22:52] <loudmouthman> pricechild cool then theres probably dangly bits we can tidy up on the way.
[20:22:52] <AndrewWilliams> what framework is it?
[20:23:03] <Seeker`> supybot or something
[20:23:20] <PriceChild> supybot
[20:23:22] <Seeker`> Seveas is responsible for ubotu?
[20:23:24] <PriceChild> yes
[20:23:37] * Seeker` will talk to him about it
[20:23:44] <popey> it would make sense to re-use existing code
[20:23:46] <PriceChild> its mostly all Seveas's own code as a plugin
[20:23:51] <PriceChild> I'm not sure what you would be reusing?
[20:23:56] <Seeker`> [ACTION] Seeker` to talk to Seveas about ubotu code
[20:23:57] <popey> the bot itself
[20:24:37] <PriceChild> popey, but the bot is almost standard supy... the plugins are availiable here... http://bots.ubuntulinux.nl/code/
[20:24:57] <Seeker`> I dont know if there are any requirements about "official" bots
[20:25:43] <Seeker`> Right, so copying the old logs to a new repository should just be a copy and paste job
[20:25:58] <Seeker`> How are we going to structure it?
[20:26:10] <Seeker`> wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/Logs/Teamname/Date?
[20:26:11] <ausimage> I think similar to what I have now...
[20:26:33] <loudmouthman> so um .to onsider changing the code would require explaining the reason for the change and encouraging them to accept the possible benefits.
[20:27:01] <ausimage> Um I suggest subdividing the groups into boards, team, derivs, locos, events
[20:27:24] <PriceChild> I think that the best way would be to keep it a separate bot instead of integration into ubugtu/ubotu
[20:27:41] <Seeker`> ausimage: in terms of URLs, wouldn't simpler be better?
[20:27:50] <loudmouthman> Seeker lets set some topics the first one now seems to be LOGS, the next one structure acceptance in meetings etc.etc.
[20:28:03] <loudmouthman> otherwise mootbot wont track this for us.
[20:28:07] <Seeker`> ok
[20:28:39] <Seeker`> PriceChild: Why?
[20:29:25] <ausimage> Seeker`: K, I guess the directory structure could be different from the page layout....
</pre><pre>
[20:29:38] <Seeker`> [TOPIC] Bot and logging
[20:29:39] <PriceChild> Seeker`, because you've got this code working... you're going to be making constant changes and it is your project. If you want it integrated into ubotu/ubugtu... then it has to be translated to python & also you lose all control
[20:29:55] <ausimage> I just do not like trawling long lists....
[20:30:01] <loudmouthman> okay so lets talk logging first.
[20:30:23] <Seeker`> ausimage: We will come to that later
[20:30:35] <loudmouthman> [IDEA] ask the loco/dev teams to help collate the logs by submitting relevant links on a wiki page ?
[20:30:54] <Seeker`> PriceChild: I can see your point, but i can also see people objecting to ANOTHER bot
[20:30:56] <ausimage> There is one...
[20:31:18] <ausimage> ScribesTeam/MeetingLSLocations
[20:31:44] <Seeker`> We need to get this info out to the Locoteams though
[20:31:50] <Seeker`> I'm guessing through Jono
[20:32:02] <Vorian> Seeker`, I can help get it out to the us teams
[20:32:07] <PriceChild> Seeker`, will continue when we get to this topic :)
[20:32:24] <Seeker`> Vorian: Where are you based?
[20:32:28] <Vorian> Ohio
[20:32:37] <ausimage> The big linux fest
[20:32:38] <loudmouthman> Seeker` generaly we can expect jono just to say .. yes good idea .. now get on with it.so lets just drop into the next loco team meeting and ask their prior to adding to an agenda.
[20:32:55] <Seeker`> Ok
[20:32:56] <Vorian> ausimage, Thats right ;)
[20:33:12] <Seeker`> loudmouthman: As you are more aware of how loco stuff works, can you do that?
[20:34:07] <loudmouthman> yep, sure make it an action.
[20:34:20] <ausimage> there are few locos on list at this moment... but definitely not all of them
[20:34:41] <Seeker`> [ACTION] loudmouthman to get submitting links to logs on loco meeting agenda
[20:34:59] <Seeker`> how can we get non-loco teams to join in?
[20:35:30] <ausimage> loudmouthman: check out wiki.u.c/ScribesTeam/MeetingLSLocations for the listing...
[20:35:32] <loudmouthman> possibly by making it an incentive to being on the central list. just like being a ubuntu member gets you planet
[20:35:58] <ausimage> oooh good... promote as way to entice new members???
[20:36:01] <Seeker`> loudmouthman: what sort of incentive could we offer though
[20:36:33] <Seeker`> you mean like an RSS feed of recent meetings?
[20:36:47] <loudmouthman> hmm i misread the problem there actually .
[20:37:22] * ausimage sees we are back to our own site invention...
[20:37:33] <Seeker`> how can we get non-loco teams to join in?
[20:37:47] <ausimage> show them benefits
[20:38:12] <Seeker`> how can we get in contact with them?
[20:38:13] <AndrewWilliams> if they see its useful, they'll use it
[20:38:16] <loudmouthman> possibly we just let this be viral in terms of interest
[20:38:37] <loudmouthman> andrewwilliams indeed.
[20:38:39] <Seeker`> let it spread round loco teams and then individuals in loco teams spread it to the non-loco teams?
[20:38:44] <loudmouthman> yep .
[20:38:53] <ausimage> sounds good
[20:39:07] <Seeker`> ok
[20:39:18] <Seeker`> Is that everything on this topic?
[20:39:25] <ausimage> but I think in the mean time
[20:39:25] <loudmouthman> I feel it is .
[20:39:46] <ausimage> we could just put a call out...
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(Topic3)]]</nowiki><pre>
[20:39:47] <Seeker`> [TOPIC] Process
[20:40:03] <loudmouthman> so are we will need to come back to the last topic next meeting to see what progress there is.
[20:40:07] <Seeker`> So what will be the process of getting logs / minutes into the repository?
[20:40:15] <loudmouthman> process ? as in ahhh.
[20:40:15] <Seeker`> loudmouthman: Agreed
[20:40:31] <Seeker`> [ACTION] Next Meeting: Review raising interest
[20:40:43] <ausimage> could we get a mailing list???
[20:40:47] <Seeker`> Will the loco teams just use mootbot
[20:41:08] <Seeker`> and them someone from this team summerise the meeting and put it in the repository?
[20:41:16] <ausimage> yeah
[20:41:31] <ausimage> or we could encourage them to do as much as they can
[20:41:36] <Seeker`> if mootbot is used properly, it should only take 20 mins or so ,even for a big meeting
[20:42:02] <loudmouthman> agreed mootbot and the logs speeds up collation of minutes and notes.
[20:42:17] <Seeker`> [IDEA] encourage at least 1 member of each team to join -scribes, so they can each work on their own meeting notes
[20:42:27] <ausimage> I think we also would benefit from maintaining a calendar
[20:43:44] <loudmouthman> ausimage i think the calendar issue as I read it is something that will only work if the first items ( good productive effective meetings ) are resolved.
[20:43:57] * Seeker` agrees with loudmouthman
[20:44:02] <ausimage> K
[20:44:10] <loudmouthman> the thing about any meeting is , without structure its just a conversation.
[20:44:17] <loudmouthman> and without results its just a debate.
[20:44:26] <Seeker`> we need to get people using it and getting minutes done. A meeting calendar will only help if people are already using it
[20:44:50] <Seeker`> so does this process sound ok:
[20:44:51] <Seeker`> 1. member of team informs scribes that meeting has been completed
[20:44:58] * PriceChild wonders about the fridge's calendar
[20:45:01] <loudmouthman> so mootbot speeds up resolution of meetings but to get a benefit from it they need to inherit the structure of a meeting and understand about things like staying in topic and creating agendas pre the meeting.
[20:45:04] <Seeker`> 2. A member of scribes gets mootbots output
[20:45:20] <Seeker`> 3. The scribes member writes up the minutes of the meeting
[20:45:28] <Seeker`> 4. The minutes are posted to the wiki page
[20:45:32] <Seeker`> Sound good?
[20:45:42] <loudmouthman> it does
[20:45:47] <loudmouthman> I will add one thought though
[20:46:07] <loudmouthman> and i dont know how to frame this as an idea but ...
[20:46:26] <loudmouthman> we should find ways to help people get structure in the meeting as well.
[20:46:45] <loudmouthman> since we are predominatly english speaking here and we need international answers.
[20:47:56] <PriceChild> What did you want a calendar for?
[20:48:01] <Seeker`> how are the two points related
[20:48:09] <Seeker`> PriceChild: Can we discuss that later?
[20:48:21] <PriceChild> Ok sorry :)
[20:48:34] <loudmouthman> well firstly i dont speak french and secondly a french speaking member of teamX would hopefully be a scribe member ( or vice a versa )
[20:48:53] <Seeker`> PriceChild: thanks
[20:49:37] <Seeker`> loudmouthman: Isn't that tied in with trying to get someone from each tema to join the scribes
[20:50:04] <loudmouthman> uh yeah . I guess . in which case we can rephrase the efforts of the scribes.
[20:50:45] <loudmouthman> 1. a team member runs the mootbot for there releant meeting.
[20:51:11] <loudmouthman> 2. the mootbot logs are collated and entered into the relevant wiki page by that member
[20:51:29] <loudmouthman> 3. Scribe members are subscribed to pages on the wiki and can check content and update information.
[20:51:54] <loudmouthman> 4. new Agendas are linked/subscribed also somewhere on that page.
[20:52:00] <Seeker`> Ideally, the person from the team will cover it quite comprehensively
[20:52:01] <loudmouthman> something like that .
[20:52:07] <loudmouthman> agreed
[20:52:39] <loudmouthman> so . I think the idea I posted initially is the core question of how to get take up of meeting process.
[20:52:49] <Seeker`> I think that the process is reasonably well defined
[20:53:01] <Seeker`> I will try to write it up, and raise it at the next meeting for approval
[20:53:28] <Seeker`> [ACTION] Seeker` to write up process, Add to next meeting agenda for approval
[20:53:31] <Seeker`> right
[20:53:38] <loudmouthman> I agree the process for meeting operation and hence notes collation is clear enough. we should try to encourage people ( I know PriceChild and AlexLatchford are interested )
</pre><pre>
[20:53:52] <Seeker`> [TOPIC] A calendar. Why do we need it?
[20:53:58] <Seeker`> ausimage: Now is your chance :P
[20:54:09] <PriceChild> What is this calendar for and why couldn't it be added to fridge?
[20:54:23] <Seeker`> PriceChild: there isn't one yet
[20:54:36] <ausimage> PriceChild: The fridge calendar is going to need irc channels listed
[20:55:03] <ausimage> Um I think we need one because it helps us and the community...
[20:55:26] <ausimage> find new meetings and events... ensuring the recording and summary of them
[20:55:28] <Seeker`> ausimage: What exactly would it do? What information would it provide? How would you access it?
[20:55:53] <PriceChild> Surely the wiki pages for the relevant groups will have links to the logs...
[20:55:55] <ausimage> It would list the team, the channel, and the date and time.
[20:56:02] <loudmouthman> ausmimage if meetings and agendas are published in a standard format e.g. 20070205 then we should pick up dates/places/times
[20:56:20] <PriceChild> the fridge calendar lists the team and date/time... meetings "should" be in #ubuntu-meeting except for LoCo's and things.
[20:56:26] <loudmouthman> but having a calendar which lists dates is very GTD and useful
[20:56:29] <PriceChild> oh and gives a link to wiki
[20:57:09] <Seeker`> so something like the fridge calendar, but for every channel?
[20:57:18] <ausimage> I see the calendar helping new ubunteros finding teams their interested in as well
[20:57:57] <ausimage> Yeah... but only for meetings and speical events
[20:58:00] <AndrewWilliams> it would be nice to have at least a list of forthcoming meetings
[20:58:16] <loudmouthman> this though works both ways :
[20:58:23] <Seeker`> ausimage: would this tie in with the bot in any way? and if so, how?
[20:58:25] <loudmouthman> a calendar shows me events listed in terms of date/time
[20:58:28] <ausimage> exactly...
[20:58:35] <loudmouthman> the list of meetings shows me all of them in one page ... hmmmmm
[20:58:53] <ausimage> um perhaps it could help with scheduling the bot to join the channel it needs
[20:59:03] <ausimage> to record
[20:59:03] <loudmouthman> but a bot which knida announced as you entered the room when the next meeting etc is .. thats cool.
[20:59:36] <AndrewWilliams> loudmouthman, wouldn't that be covered by the channel topic?
[21:00:37] <loudmouthman> Andrewwilliams . it could be , ( i know we in ukteam use it ) but certainly a autogreet is helpful for various tasks since many people dont look top topics depnding on their clients.
[21:00:59] <Seeker`> that would involve mootbot being in all channels at all times
[21:01:23] <Seeker`> also, who would write this calendar? As it would probably have to be some sort of database application to work like people would like
[21:02:08] <ausimage> I was hoping to encourage the use of stock calendar... that moot bot could use
[21:02:47] <ausimage> you know i-cal or something.... ala google calendars or fridge....
[21:02:52] <Seeker`> ausimage: To be able to pull out the information you want in the way you want, i suspect the exisitng planet calendar wouldn't be enough
[21:03:23] <ausimage> yeah... that might be true....
[21:03:48] <Seeker`> I dont know how the current calendar works
[21:04:02] <Seeker`> perhaps you could find out more about it, and its capabilites etc.
[21:04:11] <Seeker`> and find out if it is open source
[21:04:18] <Seeker`> and then we can discuss it at the next meeting?
[21:04:23] <loudmouthman> i think , and i mentioned this before , that calendars are really only useful if they are consistent, interactive and you have a desire to use them .so possibly it should be a low priority and we wait to see people fix this by using it . if that makes sense.
[21:04:58] <ausimage> yeah encourage it but don't go all out for it
[21:04:59] <Seeker`> loudmouthman: We can start doing research in to it now, it wont do any harm
[21:05:08] <Seeker`> ausimage: Do you agree with that action?
[21:05:21] <loudmouthman> seeker` agreed since it means you'll have information to disuss it better later.
[21:05:28] <ausimage> research??? yeah
[21:05:42] <Seeker`> [ACTION] Ausimage to research the calendar and report back next meeting
[21:05:48] <loudmouthman> hell even google calendar with google searches would be more than useful
[21:05:56] <ausimage> exactly
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(Topic5)]]</nowiki><pre>
[21:06:07] <Seeker`> [TOPIC] The bot
[21:06:16] <Seeker`> ok, there are a couple of things to discuss
</pre><pre>
[21:06:44] <Seeker`> [TOPIC] Bot I: Eggdrop or ubotu
[21:06:57] <Seeker`> Do people think I should carry on with mootbot as it is
[21:07:05] <Seeker`> or try to get a script added to ubotu?
[21:07:15] <Seeker`> PriceChild: You were talknig about this earlier
[21:07:37] <PriceChild> I think that while everything is new and fresh you should be keeping everything separate from ubotu
[21:07:55] <Seeker`> ok
[21:08:03] <AndrewWilliams> At the moment you've got a working bot using eggdrop/tcl, so until its "feature complete" you should continue with that, then re-write with ubot?
[21:08:04] <loudmouthman> I feel that keeping the bot seperate means you dont have to have more than one discussion at a time relating to usage.
[21:08:12] <PriceChild> For starters your code isn't compatible with ubotu anyway right now. But more importantly you've got a lot of things planned and I think you will enjoy the freedom
[21:08:18] <loudmouthman> Andrewwilliams i agree
[21:08:19] <Seeker`> Ok
[21:08:38] <Seeker`> that sounds pretty unanimous
[21:08:41] <Vorian> PriceChild, good point
[21:08:55] <AndrewWilliams> as egg/tcl is very quick to write in, and i've not seen ubot's code but i'd imagine its a tad more complicated :)
[21:09:11] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: I've seen bits of supybot code and it isn't nice
[21:09:17] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: Do you know egg/tcl?
[21:09:28] <AndrewWilliams> yes, used to script many many moons ago :)
[21:09:50] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: Fancy giving me a hand with the bot? I could do with someone to check code/ help write functions
[21:10:12] * ausimage thinks Seeker` needs to post the bot code in bazaar on our page ;)
[21:10:16] <AndrewWilliams> sounds good
[21:10:29] <Seeker`> ausimage: Not yet - the bot code is still crap :P
[21:10:32] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: Thanks
[21:10:41] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: have you joined the launchpad team yet?
[21:10:44] <ausimage> that way you can share edits
[21:10:53] <AndrewWilliams> not yet, but i'll do it now
[21:12:03] <Seeker`> ok
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(Topic8)]]</nowiki><pre>
[21:12:21] <Seeker`> [TOPIC] BOT II: Always in channel? or auto join
[21:12:44] <Seeker`> should the bot sit in loads of channels, like ubotu, or should it only join when a meeeting is scheduled?
[21:12:54] <AndrewWilliams> depends on the number of groups/teams using it, if its hundreds then you might hit the maxchannel limit on the server
[21:12:55] <ausimage> join only when
[21:13:24] <PriceChild> I think there should be several "handlers" authorised to get the bot to join channels when needed maybe?
[21:13:29] <AndrewWilliams> ooo especially when the chan limit is 20 on freenode
[21:13:41] <PriceChild> The chan limit can be increased
[21:13:43] <Vorian> Seeker`, in loco channels you never know when you'll have a productive conversation spring up...
[21:14:25] <Seeker`> Vorian: True
[21:14:41] <loudmouthman> Vorian, thats true . but th aim of mootbot is to constrain productive meetings to the whole team and record the result . so if people have useful conversations and know agood process is in place to move it forward or record it etc then it will get repeated.
[21:14:53] <Seeker`> I quite like the idea of "handlers", it shouldn't be too hard to implement with the bots registration system.
[21:15:09] <AndrewWilliams> indeed, like a userflag in eggdrop
[21:15:15] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: Exactly
[21:15:18] <loudmouthman> So I dont think its a worry and I also like handlers initially since it allows us to track response/feedback and results.
[21:15:29] <Vorian> loudmouthman, good point.
[21:15:33] <AndrewWilliams> very good point
[21:15:37] <Seeker`> They could also be a function to report when the bot is being abused if it is in a channel
[21:15:50] <Seeker`> and the handlers could remove it from the channel
[21:15:59] <loudmouthman> indeed.
[21:16:03] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: It isn't hard to get it to join channels either - a simple .+chan will do
[21:16:25] <AndrewWilliams> yup, and that can be quite easilly automated via scripts
[21:16:30] <Seeker`> yeah
[21:17:03] <Seeker`> So it looks like we are leaning towards only having the bot in channels for meetings, with a team of handlers to make it join meetings when neccessary
[21:17:09] <loudmouthman> it is going to have to handle locolization as well e.g. Agreed is not the same word in French.
[21:17:21] <loudmouthman> Seeker` i think so .
[21:17:21] <Seeker`> loudmouthman: Somewhere down the line
[21:17:39] <Seeker`> right, if that is the case, we need somewhere to host the bot other than my laptop
[21:17:51] <Seeker`> we will need some sort of eggdrop friendly shell
[21:18:00] <AndrewWilliams> while in development and low usage i can host it on a dedicated
[21:18:05] <Seeker`> sadly Dreamhost dont allow irc related processes on their servers
[21:18:33] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: who runs the servers?
[21:18:41] <loudmouthman> [IDEA] then we approach Jonofor the next point of contact in hosting stuff on freenode.
[21:18:42] <AndrewWilliams> based at 1&1 in NL
[21:19:01] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: do they allow eggdrops?
[21:19:04] <AndrewWilliams> yes
[21:19:08] <loudmouthman> phew.
[21:19:11] <AndrewWilliams> we run a IRC server on the box at the moment
[21:19:22] <Seeker`> cool
[21:19:52] <Seeker`> AndrewWilliams: What do you count as low traffic?
[21:20:03] <AndrewWilliams> less than 2-3gb a day
[21:20:15] <Seeker`> hmm
[21:20:55] <Seeker`> you do realise that is about 1 million words / day?
[21:21:04] <AndrewWilliams> :)
[21:21:22] <loudmouthman> so 1mb then ?
[21:21:38] <loudmouthman> for 1 million chars
[21:21:52] <AndrewWilliams> i know IRC is generally a low bandwidth service
[21:21:53] <loudmouthman> so assume a avg of 8 chars a word and call it 10MB to be safe ?
[21:21:56] <AndrewWilliams> so its not much to worry about
[21:22:05] <Seeker`> yeah, it should be fine
[21:22:15] <AndrewWilliams> also the server is very stable
[21:22:16] <AndrewWilliams> http://rimmer.incognitus.net/
[21:22:21] <Seeker`> I will get the code cleaned up this week and then we can sort out puttinh it on the server?
[21:22:30] <AndrewWilliams> no problem
[21:22:59] <Seeker`> nice
[21:24:03] <Seeker`> right, i think thats the end of that topic
[21:24:23] <Seeker`> [AGREED] Mootbot to be made join on request, with handlers to make the bot join
[21:24:41] <Seeker`> [AGREED] AndrewWilliams able to provide low traffic hosting
[21:25:12] <Seeker`> Any topics others would like to bring up?
[21:25:17] <ausimage> Yeah...
[21:25:55] <PriceChild> Woo I've coined a term :)
[21:25:59] <ausimage> should mention the specs et al on the ScribesTeam page
[21:26:25] <Seeker`> ausimage: go on then...
</pre><pre>
[21:26:29] <Seeker`> [TOPIC] Specs
[21:26:48] <ausimage> Personally I think most of what is being discussed was brought up in the original spec... MeetingSummarySpec :)
[21:27:12] <loudmouthman> can you provide a link again please ausimage
[21:27:26] <loudmouthman> [IDEA] mootbot should take [LINK] to record them as well.
[21:27:55] <Seeker`> [ACTION] Seeker` to implement link function
[21:28:31] <loudmouthman> ausimage, do you have a link again please ?
[21:28:33] <ausimage> sorry... my Spec that started it all... http:/wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingSummarySpec... it has lots of ideas most that were discussed here.
[21:28:36] <loudmouthman> cheers
[21:29:30] <ausimage> Then me and Seeker` have been working https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MeetingCentralSpec to define the central repository.
[21:29:58] <loudmouthman> ausimage , your correct, it is most of what was discussed inthe spec, so now its fleshed out futher with some things done and others being implemented and a few more driving forward.
[21:30:12] <loudmouthman> so im kinda freaknig impressed personally
[21:30:14] <ausimage> and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MeetingLSLocations is where we are putting the list of sites to collated
[21:30:33] <Seeker`> brb- cider
[21:31:12] <ausimage> I wanted to bring these up... and let you know if you have ideas and suggestions you can help flesh them out... ;)
[21:31:36] <loudmouthman> sure okay .
[21:31:48] <loudmouthman> well if i can make one suggestion about phrasing.
[21:32:01] <ausimage> sure
[21:32:14] <ausimage> I know I am not perfect on that.... ;)
[21:32:43] <ausimage> Finnally I am only one man... I am attempting to keep up the logs that were abandoned in July...
[21:32:58] <loudmouthman> change "he Scribes Team will" to "The scribe team are " or somehing like this . e.g. the point is to show that it is setting a standard and its not justa few people trying to do everything .. I think im almost there in wording that
[21:33:19] <ausimage> go ahead and change it
[21:33:31] <loudmouthman> ausimage . indeed. I think its good you kept the flame burning as well.
[21:33:42] <ausimage> this is on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs
[21:34:02] <loudmouthman> these things are all important for reasons we have not yet discovered.
[21:34:05] <ausimage> I am trying to at least get CC TB Ubuntu-Dev and Motu logs posted
[21:34:41] <ausimage> I am also trying to ensure other logs are posted... so I would appreciate the help....
[21:35:08] <ausimage> and Hopefully our new process can help make them even better....
[21:35:29] <loudmouthman> I think Scribes needs to be like renaisance Monks.we first should set the order and the presedence with which data shall be gathered.
[21:35:35] <ausimage> yeah
[21:35:38] <ausimage> bang on
[21:35:45] <AndrewWilliams> haha, yes
[21:36:06] <ausimage> we keep the history alive ;)
[21:36:09] <loudmouthman> from there we can collate and build the library and maintain a commitment to good documentation to help those around the community
[21:36:19] <ausimage> yup
[21:36:29] <loudmouthman> so being a scribe means commiting to good documentation .
[21:36:43] <ausimage> and summaries
[21:37:22] <loudmouthman> Kewl then you understand where I came from when I first kicked off meeting structures and Im really pleased with how the community through Seeker` has taken it. and its good to see you have been keeping the flame burning .
[21:37:27] <Seeker`> sorry, brb - family stuff
[21:37:55] <ausimage> I guess the very last thing I have is that we are open to your input and suggestions....
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(Topic10)]]</nowiki><pre>
[21:38:14] <Seeker`> [TOPIC] Any other suggestions
[21:38:48] <loudmouthman> well im about at the end of the for the meeting myself Seeker` and I want to see this one become a core part of the whole teams so lets show them what is possible.
[21:39:05] <ausimage> yeah
[21:39:21] <loudmouthman> i have no other business
[21:39:42] <ausimage> Seeker`: bang the gavel ;)
[21:40:07] <popey> heh
[21:40:07] <Seeker`> if there isnt anythnig else, i declare the first meeting of ubuntu-scrbies
[21:40:10] <Seeker`> close
[21:40:10] <Seeker`> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>

This meeting template was based on the UKTeam meeting template.
----
CategoryScribesTeam
