{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== #Ubuntu-Meeting ==
'''Ubuntu-Meeting Log 2004-11-??'''
<pre>
Topic: Community Council Meeting Tuesday 23 November 2004 at 16:00 UTC:
Agenda: https://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/CommunityCouncilAgenda

05:09	smurfix	Is anybody going to open this meeting / are we waiting for people / ???
05:12	pitti	smurfix: I pinged sabdfl
Kamion  is here
05:15	sabdfl	hi all
05:15	sabdfl	nothing in the wiki agenda
05:16	sabdfl	can we call for any other business?
Kamion  I believe there were some NM candidates to approve
Kamion  the note in the agenda is from last week's TB meeting if memory serves correctly
05:16	smurfix	Kamion: it serves
05:17	haggai	sabdfl asked me last week to ask here about NM
05:17	sabdfl	haggai: process is to become a contributor, then a maintainer in universe, then in main
05:17	sabdfl	Kamion: is there a list of NM candidates that the TB approved last week?
Kamion  I'm just trawling the irclog
05:18	smurfix	the TB didn't
05:19	smurfix	they were told to ask here first
05:19	sabdfl	i think all we did was confirm people who had already been approved at the previous CC meeting
Kamion  haggai is the only one I can see there who was referred to the CC for approval
05:19	smurfix	s/they/at least one person
Kamion  the other people mentioned were already approved last meeting
05:19	sabdfl	haggai: do you have a sponsor, someone on the existing maintainer team who can vouch for you?
05:20	sabdfl	or can you point us at upstream / other distro maintainership credentials?
05:20	haggai	plenty I hope :)
Kamion  possibly enrico too, not clear on his current status
05:20	sabdfl	enrico's fully approved, both TB and CC
05:20	haggai	sabdfl: OOo / Debian maintainer etc
05:20	sabdfl	ah
05:20	sabdfl	packages in debian?
Kamion  sabdfl haggai is the OOo guy whose mail I referred to you last week
05:20	sabdfl	Kamion: chris?
Kamion  yes
05:20	haggai	sabdfl: that's me
sabdfl  blushes furiously
05:21	haggai	sorry for the obscure nick
05:21	sabdfl	certainly no objections from me, i'd already asked elmo to approve your key for KDE-related uploading
05:21	sabdfl	elmo, mako, comments on chris halls?
Kamion  Chris' only Debian package in his own name is ayttm, but he's done a great deal of work in teams; I'm happy
05:22	elmo	sabdfl: no problems at all with haggai
05:22	sabdfl	mako around?
Kamion  mako doesn't seem to be up yet
05:22	haggai	yeah OOo in a team is kind of a lot more more work than owning a normal package :)
05:22	sabdfl	if we have mdz and keybuk, maybe we can get TB go-ahead today too
05:23	smurfix	mako's been idle for 10h
Kamion  haggai: quite so :-)
05:23	sabdfl	ok
05:23	sabdfl	i think that's a CC go ahead
05:23	sabdfl	don't want to wait a week for TB go ahead
05:24	haggai	ok thanks very much :)
05:24	sabdfl	haggai, if you can get an email from mdz to go with keybuk's go-ahead then you're sorted
Kamion  mdz just showed up, I guess he's trawling backlog
mdz     was distracted by the backlog on -devel actually :-)
05:24	Keybuk	haggai definitely has my go-ahead :)
05:24	sabdfl	elmo: will you act on a go-ahead for haggai from mdz?
05:24	sabdfl	i think this can extend to main ;-)
05:25	elmo	sure
05:25	sabdfl	elmo: do we have an easy way to let people upload to universe / multiverse only?
05:25	elmo	sabdfl: not right now, but it's an hour or so to implement
05:26	sabdfl	elmo: rock on ;-)
mako    waves
05:26	elmo	sabdfl: the existing approved maintainers - should they have access to main?
05:26	sabdfl	yes
05:26	elmo	ok
05:27	elmo	(they do right now)
05:27	sabdfl	we need to create a faster process for non-main uploaders
05:27	sabdfl	any other business?
mako    is caught up
05:27	sabdfl	kamion, thanks for standing in for mdz
mdz     yes, thanks
Kamion  np, will get back with progress later today; it was a relatively quiet week TBH
05:28	sabdfl	not in this house :-)
Kamion  heh
05:28	sabdfl	ok
05:28	sabdfl	anything in connection with The Mataro Sessions people want to raise?
05:29	sabdfl	looking fwd to meeting the local LUG'ers
05:29	sabdfl	thanks everyone
mdz     has a BOF about community processes already been proposed?
05:29	sabdfl	silbs: ^^?
05:29	silbs	yes, believe that's on the list
05:29	sabdfl	see you all there
Kamion  we don't seem to have anything scheduled yet for bringing new Ubuntu maintainers up to speed
05:29	silbs	lulu is drafting a schedule now. so other suggestions for bofs would be welcome
Kamion  might be worth having some kind of a Q&A session
05:30	mako	silbs: i think i had one or two
05:30	mako	Kamion: yeah, there is a plan for this
05:30	silbs	Kamion: what kind of q&a do you mean?
05:30	sabdfl	we haven't implemented some of the ideas that came out of oxford
05:30	sabdfl	"ubuntu enhancement proposals"
05:30	mako	Kamion: there will be a day for questions and more introductory stuff
mdz     yet
05:30	sabdfl	be nice to have that up and running for the conf
05:31	sabdfl	we could have a bof on each significant proposal
05:31	sabdfl	mako: where are we on shipit stats?
Kamion  silbs   what mako said; we have a number of non-Canonical Ubuntu maintainers coming to the conference, and I'm sure some of them have questions about process that are best answered in person; the non-Debian guys may also have technical problems we can help with
05:32	lulu	kamion: we have a BOF scheduled for this at the conf on the 8th
mdz     there is documentation that needs to be written
05:32	smurfix	mako: ... and will there be a huge stack of CDs to carry off in Mataro?  ;-)
05:32	mako	sabdfl: i've been finalizing the dump from early last week.. but when i checked on thursday we had i think 800 orders between sunday and thursday so somewhere in the range of just under 2000 new order orders (average of ~10 cds) each way
05:33	mako	sabdfl: week
(Kamion/#ubuntu-meeting) lulu: ok, good
05:33	sabdfl	ok
05:33	sabdfl	so 20,000 / week going out
05:33	sabdfl	that's awesome
05:33	mako	sabdfl: it will fluctuate depending on press and such
05:34	sabdfl	can we wrap up?
05:34	sabdfl	elmo, mako, thanks
05:34	sabdfl	cheers
05:34	mako	yay, easy summary :)
05:36	haggai	thanks folks
Kamion  makes that a 19-minute meeting
Kamion  awesome
topic   mdz: Tuesday 30 November 2004 at 16:00 UTC: 
Agenda: Technical Board meeting -- https://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/TechnicalBoardAgenda

Generated by irclog2html.pl 2.1 by Jeff Waugh - find it at freshmeat.net! 
</pre>
