{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Beta release coming up.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

kirkland posted the promised <nowiki>[[http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/03/ubuntu-server-kvm-call-for-testing.html|blog post]]</nowiki> asking for testing of kvm 84 backport to hardy with specific instructions on how-to setup kvm 84 from the ubuntu-virt PPA. He received some feedback and noted that some bugs might require to backport libvirt as well.

===== Other progress reports on Roadmap items =====

sommer reported the creation of new sections in the Server Guide: Eucalyptus and Opennebula. He welcomes feedback on those chapters (and on all other chapters), especially before StringFreeze which is Thursday, March 26.

===== Beta release coming up =====

ttx reminded the audience of the upcoming Beta release and encouraged everyone to participate in the <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|ISO testing]]</nowiki> process, especially the owners of real server hardware.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, March 31st at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[15:02] <ttx> #startmeeting
[15:02] <ivoks> oh, tb meeting in -meeting :/
[15:02] <ttx> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[15:02] <ttx> Last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090317
[15:03] <ttx> Does anyone have anything to add to the agenda ?
[15:04] <ttx> ... I'll suppose nobody has.
[15:04] <ivoks> :)
[15:04] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[15:04] <ttx> kirkland to write a blog post asking for testing of kvm 84 backport to hardy with specific instructions on how-to setup kvm 84 from the ubuntu-virt PPA
[15:04] <kirkland> ttx: done.
[15:04] <ttx> yes, I saw that one.
[15:04] <kirkland> ttx: http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/03/ubuntu-server-kvm-call-for-testing.html
[15:05] <kirkland> ttx: some feedback
[15:05] <kirkland> ttx: it appears that this might require backporting libvirt as well, possibly
[15:06] <kirkland> ttx: anything more you want to know about this?
[15:06] <ttx> kirkland: the libvirt backport is to fix additional bugs ? Or for kvm-84 compatibility ?
[15:06] <kirkland> ttx: one user reported that some of his vm's would not boot, until he installed a backported libvirt as well
[15:06] <kirkland> ttx: i haven't investigated the issue yet
[15:07] <ttx> ok.
[15:07] <ivoks> and on still doesn't boot
[15:07] <ivoks> one
[15:08] <ttx> anything else to add on the KVM topic ?
[15:08] <kirkland> ttx: i don't think so ...  maybe more in the coming weeks
[15:08] <ttx> [TOPIC] Other progress reports on Roadmap items
[15:08] <kirkland> ttx: please keep testing kvm-84 on hardy, if you have the ability to do so!
[15:09] <ttx> anyone has anything to report on the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap items ?
[15:10] <sommer> there's new sections on eucalyptus and opennebula in the serverguide :)
[15:10] <kirkland> \o/
[15:10] <sommer> reviews welcome
[15:10]  * ttx has a look
[15:11] <ttx> sommer: i'll be in contact with you this week for adaptations to the Likewise-Open chapter to cover the likewise-open5 option
[15:12] <sommer> ttx: cool, but fyi SF is the 26th
[15:12] <ttx> sommer: that I'll be in contact with you... tomorrow ?
[15:12] <sommer> ttx: coolio :)
[15:13] <ttx> that brings us to another milestone...
[15:13] <ttx> [TOPIC] Beta release coming up
[15:14] <ttx> We should be busy with ISO testing soon. We need all the help we can to test on various hardware
[15:14] <twitzel> Does anybody have time to discuss multipath/udev issues ?
[15:14]  * sommer should be able to help with ISO testing
[15:15] <twitzel> on 8,10
[15:15] <ttx> so if you have some free time and some server box lying around, please give it a shot
=== hessml|away is now known as hessml|away|away
[15:15] <ttx> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/
[15:15] <ivoks> ok
[15:16]  * lamont considers again _not_ highlighting on 'postfix'
[15:16] <_ruben> hehe
[15:17] <ttx> We usually test a lot in VMs but not so much on real iron.
[15:17] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[15:18] <ttx> Anything/anyone ? Or else i'll break the shortest meeting in history record.
[15:19] <ttx> Any regression that you've seen ignored and you would like to bump ?
[15:20] <ttx> OK, we enter the final month so everyone is already busy, I see :)
[15:21] <ivoks> :)
[15:21] <zul> just a tad
[15:21]  * sommer is sleepy
[15:21] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[15:22] <ttx> so I think Europe is catching up DST this next week-end
[15:22] <kirkland> woohoo
[15:22] <AlexC_> soren, just want to say thank you very much for your help over the past day, been highly appreciated. I have it all up and working now =)
[15:23] <ttx> Should we adjust the meeting time accordingly
[15:25] <sommer> sure
[15:26]  * ttx doesn't remember the usual meeting time
[15:26] <bittin_> 15:00
[15:26] <bittin_> and i tought i was to late :p
[15:26] <ttx> then we just keep 1500 UTC, right ?
[15:27] <sommer> works for me
[15:27] <ttx> OK, and we should get back our slot on #ubuntu-meeting
[15:28] <ttx> so next week, 1500 UTC, #ubuntu-meeting
[15:28] <bittin_> sounds great
[15:28] <ttx> #endmeeting, then
[15:29] <ttx> have a great week, and happy Beta ISO testing.
</pre>
