{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' SorenHansen <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' SorenHansen <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====
soren<<BR>>
jdstrand<<BR>>
nijaba<<BR>>
sommer<<BR>>
zul<<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review each section of the ServerTeam/Roadmap.
* ruby-on-rails (What is the status of this?) - dendrobates
* JeOS tutorial (shall we redirect users from wiki to linuxtoday.com ?) - nijaba
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== MootBot Log ===
<nowiki>[[http://kryten.incognitus.net/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-meeting.20071218_1600.html]]</nowiki>
