{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** Previous meeting (July 22nd) actions:
*** None
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

None

===== U Development =====
The discussion about "U Development" started at 16:00.

* Feature freeze is August 21. Note Debian Import Freeze is coming up
   as well.
* The mysql /var/lib/mysql discussion is proceeding, but it seems
   unlikely that this will happen by feature freeze now. Nevertheless,
   we expect to land 5.6 in main in the same manner as 5.5 is currently on
   schedule.
* http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html - please
   remember to keep your blueprints updated with work item progress and
   re-plan milestones if things slip.

===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:03.

* No updates

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) =====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:05.

* No updates

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) =====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:05.

* James Page reports that iscsitarget 12.04 DKMS updates for HWE
   kernels are ready and uploaded to trusty-proposed awaiting SRU team
   review (bug 1262712)

* The KSM on NUMA + KVM bug (1346917) is making great progress, driven
   by Chris Arges. Brad Figg reports that an upload to trusty-proposed
   is imminent, and it should land on August 8th (the day after
   12.04.5). 12.04.5 (for the HWE kernel) won't include the update, but
   one will be available for it the next day.

* For kernel SRU cadence updates, see
   https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-sru-announce/

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:17.

* rbasak noted that the Canonical Server Team have been sprinting in
## ubuntu-server on Fridays to complete merges, including mentoring and
   sponsoring, and that all are welcome to join them.

===== Open Discussion =====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:18.

** James Page reported that there are plans to SRU docker 1.0.x to
    14.04 in bug 1338768. The proposed uploaded is in a PPA and awaiting
    review from the SRU team. Testers are encouraged to try it out.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

** Next meeting will be on Tuesday, August 4th at 16:00 UTC in
### ubuntu-meeting. Note that this was stated incorrectly in the
    meeting itself. The chair will be Liam Young.

=== Log ===
<pre>
17:00 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
17:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul 29 16:00:15 2014 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
17:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
17:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
17:00 <rbasak> Who's here?
17:00 <gnuoy> o/
17:00 <jamespage> o/
17:00 <jamespage> I'm here!
17:00 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting 
17:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
17:00 <jamespage> hey rbasak, gnuoy
17:00 <rbasak> I see none.
17:00 <rbasak> #topic U Development 
17:00 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: U Development
17:01 <rbasak> Any comments? Feature freeze is August 21. It will probably start creeping up on us now.
17:01 <beisner> o/ hi
17:01 <coreycb> o/
17:01 -!- dholbach [~daniel@ubuntu/member/dholbach] has quit [Quit: Ex-Chat]
17:01 -!- bjf has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:01 -!- micahg has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:01 <jamespage> debian import freeze is soonish as well
17:02 <jamespage> rbasak, do you reckon
17:02 <matsubara> o/
17:02 <rbasak> We're working on getting all the important outstanding merges done. Usually by sprinting together on Fridays in #ubuntu-server. All welcome.
17:02 <kickinz1> o/
17:02 <jamespage> that we will make the switch to 5.6 this cycle?
17:02 <jamespage> for mysql?
17:02 <rbasak> Yeah Debian Import Freeze not long away now.
17:02 <rbasak> I've been looking at mysql 5.6 today.
17:02 <jamespage> awesome
17:02 -!- lutostag has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:02 <rbasak> Any other comments?
17:03 <rbasak> The mysql conversation is proceeding btw, but I think it less likely now that the /var/lib/mysql/ change will happen this cycle (if it happens at all, as it's still under debate)
17:03 <rbasak> But we can land 5.6 in the same manner as 5.5 for now.
17:03 <rbasak> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) 
17:03 <jamespage> ack
17:03 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
17:03 <jamespage> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
17:04 <jamespage> ^^ remember to keep your BP's updated with work-item progress and re-plan milestones as things slip (if required)
17:04 <jamespage> rbasak, sorry - thats me done
17:04 <rbasak> caribou doesn't appear to be here, so I guess we can skip that.
17:05 <rbasak> Unless anybody has anything else they'd like to bring up on this topic?
17:05 <jamespage> nope
17:05 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
17:05 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
17:05 <rbasak> psivaa: any updates?
17:05 -!- hallyn has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:05 <rbasak> I guess not.
17:05 <psivaa> nothing from our side rbasak
17:05 <rbasak> OK, thanks!
17:05 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) 
17:05 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
17:06 <smoser> o/
17:06 <jamespage> I have something for this section if smb or sforshee don't have
17:06 <rharper> o/
17:06 <sforshee> I don't have any updates. smb doesn't seem to be present.
17:06 <rbasak> jamespage: go ahead
17:06 <jamespage> so... this is my bad as I dropped the ball that smb started a while back
17:07 <jamespage> iscsitarget on 12.04 - dkms has been bust with HWE kernels
17:07 <jamespage> there was general consensus that backporting 14.04 version was the right way to go and some good testing from a community user
17:07 <jamespage> I've uploaded that for SRU team review today
17:07 <jamespage> apologies - that took way to long
17:08 <jamespage> bug 1262712
17:08 <ubottu> bug 1262712 in iscsitarget (Ubuntu Precise) "[SRU] Backport iscsitarget 1.4.20.3+svn499 into Precise" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1262712
17:08 <rbasak> Thanks jamespage - nice to see that being fixed
17:08 -!- bdrung_work [~bdrung_wo@62.217.45.26] has quit [Quit: Verlassend]
17:08 <rbasak> I've also seen some discussion (eg. earlier today in #ubuntu-server) on https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1346917
17:08 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1346917 in linux (Ubuntu Trusty) "Using KSM on NUMA capable machines can cause KVM guest performance and stability issues" [High,Fix committed]
17:08 <rbasak> I know a fix is in the works for Trusty, but hasn't landed yet.
17:08 <jamespage> that's a critical one and arges is doing a great job on driving that forwards
17:09 <rbasak> I could find the kernel SRU cadence documented from the link in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates#Kernel
17:09 <rbasak> Does anyone know what the schedule is currently, or better have a link to it?
17:09 <jamespage> sforshee, ^^ ?
17:09 <smoser> i always just load https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux
17:09 <sforshee> I don't know where we are in the cadence for sure, I suggest asking bjf
17:10 <bjf> jamespage, rbasak, i'm currently packaging up a kernel with that fix. should be uploaded today
17:10 <bjf> jamespage, rbasak (very soon now)
17:10 <rbasak> bjf: to trusty-proposed? That's great - thanks!
17:10 <jamespage> bjf, thanks!
17:10 <rbasak> bjf: though do you know where the normal cadence is documented? That's one thing I couldn't find and wanted to point people to.
17:10 <bjf> rbasak, jamespage the plan is for it to hit -updates on Aug. 8. the day after 12.04.5
17:11 <jamespage> great
17:11 <jamespage> bjf, so it would be included in 12.04.5?
17:11 <jamespage> sorry - being dumb...
17:11 <rbasak> Sounds like it'll miss 12.04.5?
17:11 <jamespage> 12.04.5 being the 3.13 HWE release right?
17:11 <bjf> rbasak, the only way to know the dates for the next cadence is to be subscribed to kernel-sru-announce mailing list
17:11 <bjf> jamespage, will not be in 12.04.5
17:11 <jamespage> hmm
17:12 <bjf> jamespage, that's why there will be an update the next day
17:12 <jamespage> ok
17:12 <rbasak> bjf: I can point them to https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-sru-announce/ I guess then - thanks!
17:12 <smoser> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-sru-announce/2014-July/thread.html
17:12 <smoser> yeah, bjf. thanks for that.
17:12 -!- victorp [~victorp@2.123.104.132] has quit [Ping timeout: 256 seconds]
17:13 <smoser> bjf, could you, or someone on your team possibly update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/KernelUpdates to point to that mailing list ?
17:13 <smoser> i'd not seen that documented previously (but that coudl be user error)
17:13 <rbasak> Meanwhile, any other kernel-related questions or comments?
17:13 <bjf> smoser, since it's a wiki, you can do it :-)
17:13 -!- davidcalle has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:13 -!- robru [~robru@163.5.143.197] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
17:13 -!- smb has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:14 <rbasak> smb: o/
17:14 <smb> Just about...
17:14 <rbasak> smb: we're just about to finish the kernel topic. Did you have any comments?
17:14 <smb> Just remembered
17:15 <smb> I had nothing in particular. Just for zul and hallyn about the request for libvirt stuff back to Debian
17:15 <smb> I would be interested to learn there if one of you does something (or help)
17:16 <rbasak> I guess zul and hallyn have no comment right now. Thanks smb!
17:16 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
17:16 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
17:16 <rbasak> What's coming up?
17:17 <zul> smb:  still reading the email
17:17 -!- apachelogger [sitter@kde/developer/sitter] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation terminated!"]
17:17 <rbasak> Nothing that's not already been announced I guess.
17:18 <rbasak> I mentioned before that the Canonical team have been sprinting to try and get merges done (including mentoring and sponsoring) on Fridays in #ubuntu-server.
17:18 <rbasak> If others want to join us, please do.
17:18 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion 
17:18 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
17:18 <jamespage> o/
17:18 <rbasak> Does anyone have anything else to bring up?
17:18 -!- psivaa is now known as psivaa-bbl
17:18 <rbasak> jamespage: go!
17:18 <jamespage> FYI there are plans to SRU docker 1.0.x to 14.04
17:18 <jamespage> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/docker.io/+bug/1338768
17:19 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1338768 in golang-pty-dev (Ubuntu Trusty) "[SRU] Update to 1.0.0 release" [High,New]
17:19 <jamespage> referenced from that bug is a PPA with the currently proposed backport set to support this; I'm pending review from the SRU team
17:19 <jamespage> if anyone wants to take it for a spin please do!
17:20 <rbasak> Thanks jamespage!
17:20 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
17:20 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
17:21 <rbasak> The next meeting will be on Wed Aug 5 17:00:00 UTC 2014
17:21 <rbasak> Who'll be chairing? I'm not sure I follow the rota right now. Are we not moving it along any more?
17:21 <rbasak> So is that gauhen, or smoser?
17:21 <rbasak> Or the other way and hallyn?
17:22 <hallyn> gaughen or smoser
17:22 <smoser> yeah. it'd be me.
17:22 <rbasak> OK - thanks. gaughen or smoser then.
17:22 <smoser> i dont know how rbasak got put up there.
17:22 <rbasak> Thanks all!
17:22 <rbasak> #endmeeting
17:22 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
17:22 <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Jul 29 16:22:51 2014 UTC.
17:22 <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-07-29-16.00.moin.txt
17:22 <smoser> but i probalby wont be availalbe, and neither will jamespage next week.
17:22 <jamespage> yah
17:23 <rbasak> OK, so gaughen or gnuoy?
17:23 <jamespage> have fun without us
17:23 <jamespage> gaughen will be out as well - so gnuoy!
17:23 <rbasak> Both tech leads gone in the same week? Whatever will we do? :-P
17:23 <gnuoy> I'll be out
17:23 <jamespage> lol
17:23 <rbasak> arosales will also be gone I'm guessing?
17:23 <rbasak> Then matsubara?
17:23 <matsubara> I'll be around
17:24 <rbasak> Can you chair next week, please?
17:24 <matsubara> Yes
17:24 <rbasak> Thanks!
17:24 <rharper> hehe
17:24 <kickinz1> thanks, rbasak
17:25 <matsubara> np
</pre>
