{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== App Developer Week -- Lightning Talks -- james_w -- Fri, Apr 15th, 2011 ===
{{{#!irc
[21:59] <mhall119> okay, so for anyone who's not familiar with what a lightning talk is
[22:00] <mhall119> it's a very quick presentation, where the speakers only have about 5 minutes to say everything they have to say
[22:00] <mhall119> they've become quite popular at conventions
[22:00] <mhall119> for this session, we have people who are going to give a quick overview of some program they are involved in, so you can see what small projects are out there that you might want to get involved in
[22:01] <mhall119> as always, you can ask questions in -classroom-chat
=== ChanServ changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to the Ubuntu Classroom - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom || Support in #ubuntu || Upcoming Schedule: http://is.gd/8rtIi || Questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Event: Ubuntu App  Developer Week - Current Session: Lightning Talks - Instructors: stefano-palazzo, duanedesign, davidc3, kirkland, MeanEYE, muesli, nhandler
[22:01] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/04/15/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[22:01] <mhall119> but remember, they only have 5 minutes, so don't expect them to answer everything
[22:01] <mhall119> so, without wasting any more of their preciouos time
[22:02] <mhall119> our first speaker is sefano-palazzo, talking about StackExchange App
}}}
==== StackExchange App ====
{{{#!irc
[22:02] <stefano-palazzo> Hello, I'm Stefano - I'll be talking about StackExchange
[22:02] <stefano-palazzo> Stack Exchange is a network of question and answer websites
[22:02] <stefano-palazzo> it includes sites like http://stackoverflow.com, http://serverfault.com, and of course
[22:02] <stefano-palazzo> http://askubuntu.com - the best place to ask questions and get answers about Ubuntu
[22:03] <stefano-palazzo> I've also written the Ask Ubuntu Lens for Unity,
[22:03] <stefano-palazzo> http://askubuntu.com/questions/31712
[22:04] <stefano-palazzo> The Lens is designed to work with Ask Ubuntu, but it also supports every other Stack Exchange site
[22:05] <stefano-palazzo> If you're interested in geographic information systems, guitars, maths, star trek, ... there's probably a site for you.
[22:05] <stefano-palazzo> If you're running Natty Narwhal, you can add our Team's PPA to install the lens: https://launchpad.net/askubuntu-lens
[22:05] <stefano-palazzo> It also contains stack applet; A little, App Indicator sized utility that keeps you up to date with your profile on any stackexchange site - if you're already an Ask Ubuntu user
[22:06] <stefano-palazzo> It's written by George Edison, and, if you're interested in what's happening in your Stack Exchange account, this app is for you
[22:06] <stefano-palazzo> And if you don't know what Stack Exchange or Ask Ubuntu are,
[22:07] <stefano-palazzo> I urge you to check them out. They're the best place on the web if you just want to get an answer to your question. Jorge has recorded a screen cast providing a gentle introduction:
[22:07] <stefano-palazzo> http://blip.tv/file/4909346
[22:08] <stefano-palazzo> That's about all I've got - if you're interested, join Ask Ubuntu (you don't need to register an account). And if you want to talk to me about developing Apps that integrate with Stack Exchange sites, I'm often in #ayatana, or the Ask Ubuntu chat at http://chat.askubuntu.com
[22:09] <stefano-palazzo> thank you very much for your time :)
[22:09] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: does it search every stackexchage site by default, or do you have to enable the ones you're interested in?
=== tubadaz is now known as tubadaz_away
[22:10] <stefano-palazzo> It searches Ask Ubuntu by default, but if you want to search on any other site, you can use special modifers. A typical search might be "@guitars telecaster sustain", or "@programming open source license"
[22:11] <ClassBot> MeanEYE asked: Will your lense be integrated with default Ubuntu installation?
[22:11] <stefano-palazzo> the modifier is the first part of the site's URL, what ever comes before .com
[22:11] <stefano-palazzo> No, then lens will not be part of the default installation, it will in all likelihood appear in the Independend category of the software centre
[22:12] <mhall119> alright, thanks stefano-palazzo!
[22:12] <mhall119> next up is duanedesign with CLI Companion
[22:12] <mhall119> take it away duanedesign
=== tubadaz_away is now known as tubadaz
[22:14] <mhall119> okay, we'll try him again later
[22:14] <mhall119> davidc3 is next with Unity Book Lens
[22:14] <mhall119> davidc3: ready?
}}}
==== Unity Book Lens ====
{{{#!irc
[22:14] <davidc3> Yes :)
[22:14] <mhall119> the floor is yours
[22:15] <davidc3> Hello, I'm David and I'm going to introduce you to my pet project: the Books Lens.
[22:15] <davidc3> There are a lot of free online libraries, such as Google Books or Project Gutenberg, and as a heavy books reader, I wanted to find a way to search them all at once.
[22:15] <davidc3> More precisely, my goal was to reduce the time from searching to reading:
[22:15] <davidc3> To put it another way: type, click, read a book. Like any document on your computer.
[22:15] <davidc3> The project started when I found stefano-palazzo's first commits for the askubuntu lens. It presented me a simple way to get results from the Internet displayed in Unity, in Python.
[22:16] <davidc3> Why in Python? Because I'm not a developer, because I didn't know any more code than a few terminal tricks and because "everyone" says Python is easy...
[22:16] <davidc3> So it was time to get my hands dirty and I started to blindly modify some values and experiment on stefano's code :)
[22:16] <davidc3> I also found the Google Books JSON API documentation to be very helpful.
[22:16] <davidc3> By the way, an API is a set of rules to ask other services questions and to interprate the answers and JSON is a language easy to interprate in Python.
=== erichammond1 is now known as erichammond
[22:17] <davidc3> A few hours later, I had a working lens! You could search every books indexed by Google, and authors, and subjects! The power of Google in the palm of my hand! http://img39.imageshack.us/img39/8454/screenshot4xn.png
[22:17] <davidc3> But... my web browser was just a click away and it could do all of this much faster and better...
[22:17] <davidc3> So, it was time to had features:
[22:17] <davidc3> The first one is called "Focused Author". When you get search results, the lens uses the first author it finds, and presents other books from her or him.
=== crazedpsyc_ is now known as crazedpsyc
[22:18] <davidc3> It does work on most searches and find authors from Sophocles http://img861.imageshack.us/img861/7618/screenshotss.png
[22:18] <davidc3> ...to Jono Bacon! http://img200.imageshack.us/img200/7219/screenshot1sf.png :)
[22:18] <davidc3> Another feature is a localization trick: the lens finds out your session's language and tries to present you books in your language first.
[22:18] <davidc3> What's coming next:
[22:19] <davidc3> * More focus on free books! (the actual "Free Books" search is clunky, but it will eventually be default).
[22:19] <davidc3> For now, most of the time, instead of: "Type, click'n'read", it's: type, click and "an Amazon link, really?"
[22:19] <davidc3> * Search in Project Gutenberg and Forgotten Books (with help from Blekko, a really nice search engine)
[22:19] <davidc3> * Special searches, like "50's sci-fi"!
[22:19] <davidc3> * Smart pre-population via Zeitgeist: you are looking at a web page or some other document, then open the lens: without needing you to type anything, it finds out what you are doing on your computer (using the title of the most recently accessed document) and present you related books.
[22:20] <davidc3> How you can help:
[22:20] <davidc3> Add the PPA: https://launchpad.net/~davidc3/+archive/books-lens
[22:20] <davidc3> Try it and report bugs: https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity-books-lens
[22:20] <davidc3> That's all, if you want to talk to me about this project, I'm often in #ayatana (nick davidcalle), thank you for your time! :)
[22:21] <davidc3> Any questions?
[22:21] <ClassBot> MeanEYE asked: After finding a book using Unity, will default book reader application open or just URL?
[22:22] <davidc3> For now, just URL, but the ultimate goal is to open it in the appropriate reader.
[22:22] <davidc3> Or device!
[22:22] <davidc3> Project Gutenberg makes it very easy to download things in kindle format, for example.
[22:23] <davidc3> More questions?
[22:23] <mhall119> alright, thanks davidc3, I'm sure i will get less work done in Natty now ;)
[22:23] <mhall119> up next is kirkland and Bikeshed
[22:23] <davidc3> Thanks mhall119 :)
}}}
==== Bikeshed ====
{{{#!irc
[22:23] <kirkland> mhall119: thanks
[22:24] <kirkland> right, so Bikeshed ...
[22:24] <kirkland> Bikeshed was the answer to a problem I've struggled with for some time now
[22:24] <kirkland> I had a growing number of really cool, convenient scripts stacking up in my own ~/bin directory
[22:24] <kirkland> many of which might be useful to other people
[22:25] <kirkland> and so I tried to contribute them to upstream projects
[22:25] <kirkland> but many of these upstream projects were old, or stagnant;  others were new and active, but just uninterested
[22:25] <kirkland> more importantly, the actual implementation of a few them them were debated endlessly
[22:25] <kirkland> this gave rise to the Bikeshed project
[22:26] <kirkland> where the term "bikeshedding" has become very commonly used in modern open source development circles
[22:26] <kirkland> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parkinson%27s_Law_of_Triviality
[22:26] <kirkland> ^ if you don't know what it means to "bikeshed"
[22:27] <kirkland> so anyway, I created the "Bikeshed" project in Launchpad, as a breeding ground for new/interesting/even-trivial-but-helpful scripts and programs
[22:27] <kirkland> it's sort of an incubator
[22:27] <kirkland> or even an orphanage
[22:27] <kirkland> a place I often put things that other people might use, until it finds a more permanent home
[22:27] <kirkland> some of the things to land in Bikeshed ...
[22:28] <kirkland> most recently, "apply-patch"
[22:28] <kirkland> which is a wrapper for patch, that can retrieve patches via URL, and automatically detects the strip-level
[22:29] <kirkland> bzrp is a wrapper for bzr, that puts the output through a pager if it's more than one screen (sort of like git does automatically)
[22:29] <kirkland> col1 .. col9 is a really slick wrapper that does the equivalent of "awk -F"$something" '{print $N}'
[22:29] <kirkland> dman remotely retrivies manpages from manpages.ubuntu.com
[22:30] <kirkland> wifi-status is a watch wrapper that monitors your wireless connection in real time
[22:30] <kirkland> and so on
[22:30] <kirkland> a few things have "graduated" out of bikeshed to be projects of their own
[22:30] <kirkland> ssh-import-id $LAUNCHPAD_USER is a cool tool that securely retrieves a public SSH key from Launchpad and installs it to the authorized_keys file of the system
[22:30] <kirkland> (really useful in cloud computing circles)
[22:31] <kirkland> and the errno utility was one of the proverbial straw that broke the camels back, and inspired me to create bikeshed
[22:31] <kirkland> errno searches Linux error numbers, names, and descriptions
[22:32] <kirkland> there's a few more
[22:32] <kirkland> but I should probably save a few minutes for quesitons
[22:32] <kirkland> questions, even
[22:32] <kirkland> my classbot fu is out of date
[22:33] <ClassBot> MeanEYE asked: Do you have any graphical part of application which can help us easily install/remove scripts?
[22:33] <kirkland> MeanEYE: hmm, currently every thing is command line only
[22:33] <kirkland> MeanEYE: and bikeshed itself is kind of a mish-mash of random scripts
[22:34] <ClassBot> davidc3 asked: Do all the scripts have man or help? And do you have some wiki page where we can learn a bit more about them??
[22:34] <kirkland> MeanEYE: part of the process of "graduating" a script out of bikeshed means making it into its own package/project, which is then installable from the Ubuntu Software Center
[22:34] <kirkland> davidc3: absolutely!  every script/program MUST have a manpage to land in bikeshed :-)  it's my most important requirement
[22:34] <kirkland> davidc3: the best place to learn is http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/search/label/Bikeshed
[22:35] <mhall119> alright, thanks kirkland!
[22:35] <kirkland> mhall119: thank you!
[22:35] <mhall119> so everyone dig around in your ~/bin and see what you can toss in the shed
[22:36] <mhall119> Up next is MeanEYE with his app: Sunflower FM!
}}}
==== Sunflower FM ====
{{{#!irc
[22:37] <MeanEYE> Oh, is it me already. Great!
[22:37] <MeanEYE> Hello everyone.
[22:37] <MeanEYE> My name is Mladen, although using my nick is just fine.
[22:37] <MeanEYE> I'll use this short time span to present you with Sunflower.
[22:38] <MeanEYE> Sunflower is twin-panel file manager based on GTK+.
[22:38] <MeanEYE> Idea is to create keyboard driven file manager that seamlessly integrates into Gnome desktop environment (and Unity of course).
[22:39] <MeanEYE> So, without dragging this more than I should... I'd like to give you a few screenshots of my little program in action.
[22:39] <MeanEYE> http://img231.imageshack.us/img231/2310/screenshot3vk.png
[22:39] <MeanEYE> http://img560.imageshack.us/img560/834/screenshot1pl.png
[22:40] <MeanEYE> http://img855.imageshack.us/img855/3793/screenshotvw.png
[22:40] <MeanEYE> I tried to be creative and add many options but at the same time keep user interface clean and organized.
[22:41] <MeanEYE> I believe many of you already used some twin-panel file manager like Total Commander, Gnome-Commander, Midnight Commander, etc.
[22:42] <MeanEYE> Since I like talking with people, feel free to ask questions.
[22:42] <MeanEYE> For impatient people you can download it from: http://code.google.com/p/sunflower-fm/
[22:43] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: You said it's keyboard controlled, does that mean everything had a keyboard shortcut?
[22:43] <MeanEYE> Yes, not everything but most commonly things do have them. Those that don't have shortcuts can be accessed using a keyboard.
[22:44] <MeanEYE> One nice example of this is when you are working with files and you need a terminal in that very directory, all you need to do is hit CTRL+Z and program will open terminal with that path.
[22:45] <MeanEYE> Program is also multi-threaded so if you have more than one core on your processor program will use this.
[22:45] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: Is this in Universe or a PPA?
[22:46] <MeanEYE> No, not at the moment. It's still in early alpha stage.
[22:46] <MeanEYE> Although there are some people who are using it heavily without any issues.
[22:46] <mhall119> okay, if anybody has any further questions for MeanEYE, feel free to ask
[22:47] <mhall119> but now it's time for us to move on to muesli and Tomahawk Player
[22:47] <MeanEYE> If someone is willing to join and help package it or translate it, just refer to that link I gave you and I'll help!
[22:47] <MeanEYE> Ok, thanks every one!
}}}
==== Tomahawk ====
{{{#!irc
[22:47] <muesli> Good evening! My name's Chris, I'm the lead developer of a young project called Tomahawk, a "social" music player written in C++ / Qt4
[22:47] <muesli> I know what you're thinking "great, exactly what the world needed, yet another music player", but bear with me for a second. Tomahawk handles your music collection differently than any of the players that you have used so far
[22:48] <muesli> Tomahawk allows you to connect to your friends' music collections via Jabber or Twitter - it simply re-uses your social graphs and tries to find contacts that are currently running Tomahawk. Once you're connected, you can stream all their music and even play your friends' playlists
[22:49] <muesli> Whenever you load a playlist, Tomahawk automatically determines the best source for each of the playlist's tracks: If you have a copy of the track locally it'll prefer that, otherwise the track will get streamed from one of your friends - on demand and automatically. It just plays
[22:50] <muesli> But what if you load a playlist and none of your friends is currently online - and you don't have a local copy of a track either?
[22:50] <muesli> Tomahawk tries to help out and will also find music all over the internet for you. It is extensible by so-called resolvers, which are little plugins or scripts running in the background. They try to find a streamable url for any song you wanna listen to
[22:50] <muesli> Whether it is available on Spotify, Youtube or found on an MP3 blog by Skreemr. It just finds it and plays it
[22:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[22:51] <muesli> We go even beyond that and try to utilize existing metadata from public APIs (like Echonest or Last.fm). Tomahawk can automatically prefill your playlists by a variety of criteria, so you'll always find a set of tracks that fit your current mood
[22:51] <muesli> Join us on channel #tomahawk and we'll get you started with not only Ubuntu packages, but also Win32 and OS X binaries
[22:52] <muesli> Check out our blog for a few how-to and demo videos: http://tomahawk-player.org/blog/tips_tricks/stations and follow the project on GitHub: https://github.com/tomahawk-player/tomahawk
[22:52] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: How does it know which of your friends is using it?
[22:53] <muesli> That depends on the connectivity (called SIP) plugin you're using. When it comes to Jabber, it'll use a specific resource, so it can identify other Tomahawks in your contact list.
[22:54] <muesli> The Twitter plugin will look for an invite message, which you can either send to all your followers or just a handful of people
[22:54] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: Have you considered the legal impact (copyright) of streaming music to your friends?
[22:55] <muesli> Yes, we have thought and written about this situation here: http://tomahawk-player.org/legal
[22:55] <ClassBot> james_w asked: does it stream music over twitter?
[22:56] <muesli> No, it won't use Jabber or Twitter to stream the music. Those protocols are only used to initiate a connection. From there on it's a direct connection between two Tomahawks.
[22:56] <mhall119> thanks muesli, this certainly is a new take on music players!
[22:56] <muesli> Thanks for your time, hope to see you on #tomahawk
[22:57] <mhall119> alright everybody, wrapping up this session and this week is nhandler and our very own lovable, huggable, perl-icious ClassBot!
}}}
==== ClassBot ====
{{{#!irc
[22:57] <nhandler> Hello everyone. ClassBot is an IRC bot I wrote a while ago to help with running classroom sessions in #ubuntu-classroom
[22:57] <nhandler> We had a brief lightning talk at UDS given by cjohnston, but no IRC talk was ever given
[22:58] <nhandler> Some information about ClassBot is available here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/ClassBot
[22:58] <nhandler> As you probably have seen, classbot has been working tirelessly this past week to ensure the /topic stays updated and that instructors get voiced and devoiced
[22:59] <nhandler> All of this information comes from of Classroom calendar: http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/classroom.html
[22:59] <nhandler> ClassBot also helps instructors keep track of questions. You can currently get the next question (if you are an instructor or helper) with: /msg classbot !q
[23:00] <nhandler> You can then choose to have the question go to the classroom (!y) or reject it with (!n [optional comment]).
[23:01] <nhandler> One probably lesser known feature of ClassBot is that it is responsible for keeping the classroom identi.ca feed up-to-date: http://identi.ca/ubuntuclassroom . You can subscribe to that feed to always know when a session is goin on.
[23:01] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: When will the OOP re-write be ready?\
[23:02] <nhandler> mhall119 is asking about a major re-write I am doing to make it easier to add a few features to ClassBot. I've gotten a bit behind due to some real life work, but I hope to start working again after the second week in May. It should be done and ready to launch in #ubuntu-classroom at the end of May.
[23:02] <ClassBot> MeanEYE asked: Does it respond to CTCP. Might be handy so you don't have to switch tabs when getting next question and similar. :D
[23:03] <nhandler> MeanEYE: Switching tabs all depends on your IRC client. For example, I have my client set to show PMs in the current window (rather than creating a new query window).
[23:03] <nhandler> CTCP messages would be a bit inappropriate to use for something like this.
[23:03] <nhandler> So in short, it does not currently respond to them and it probably will not gain that feature.
[23:03] <ClassBot> MeanEYE asked: Did you consider making classroom topic to be displayed before other information? In many clients you have to scroll to find the rest of the text.
[23:05] <nhandler> If by Classroom topic you mean the current session information, I believe we decided to put it on the end to ensure that the information at the beginning always shows up and won't get cut-off due to a lot of instructors and a long session title/event name. So yes, we considered it, but we decided on the current layout (note that it is easily configurable though)
[23:06] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[23:06] <nhandler> Any more questions?
[23:08] <nhandler> If you ever have any issues using classbot during a session, I encourage you to stop by #ubuntu-classroom-backstage or ask one of the people listed on the calendar as a helper. They will usually be able to help you or point you in the right direction
[23:08] <nhandler> Finally, if anyone is interested, here is an old set of slides I prepared to explain classbot: http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/myslides/
[23:09] <nhandler> Well, this conlcudes my lightning talk, the lightning talk session, and Ubuntu App Developer Week.
[23:09] <nhandler> I hope everyone has enjoyed the lineup of sessions and learned a lot
[23:10] <nhandler> If you ever wish to lead a session (or have a suggestion for a session you would like to see), please do not hesitate to email ubuntu-classroom@lists.ubuntu.com or stop by #ubuntu-classroom-backstage
[23:11] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/04/15/%23ubuntu-classroom.html
[23:11] <nhandler> Finally if you missed a session, logs are available on the wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek
[23:11] <nhandler> Thanks for coming everyone
}}}
