{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon Mar 19th 2018 16:38 UTC
* '''End''': 16:56:40
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Tyler Hicks (tyhicks)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson
* leosilva

=== Not present ===
* ratliff

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Generalist role rotation
** CVE Triage: sarnold, Bug Triage: ratliff, Community: sbeattie, Happy Place: mdeslaur, leosilva
** Contributions
** Simon Deziel provided debdiffs for xenial-artful for tor (LP: #Bug:1731698)
** Philip Rinn provided a debdiff for artful for qtpass (LP: #Bug:1747954)
** Emmet Hikory (persia) provided debdiffs for xenial-artful for mosquitto (LP: #Bug:1752591)
** tyhicks has accepted a role on the kernel team and will be moving over to the kernel team on Tuesday
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** email catchup
** snapd PR reviews
*** 18.04 desktop priorities
*** layouts
*** portals
*** steam-support interface
** process/prioritize sprint outcomes
** mdeslaur
** php updates
** security updates
** sbeattie
** paramiko updates
** openjdk updates
** gcc retpoline backports for 12.04 ESM
** kernel CVE triage
** tyhicks
** merge apparmor 2.12-4 from Debian
** upload apparmor 2.12-4ubuntu1 to Bionic
*** fix autopkgtest issues in other source packages
** internal documentation
** jjohansen
** !AppArmor bugs
*** LXD issue with apparmor: https://github.com/lxc/lxd/issues/4340
*** follow up on dangling symlinks apparmorfs issue: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1755563
** update bionic LSM stacking patches with the latest upstream revision
** sarnold
** MIRs
*** uvloop
** !ChrisCoulson
** rust/cargo updates
** thunderbird updates
** !AppArmor auditing changes
** investigate gcc-6.4 and nodejs build deps for firefox
** embargoed issues
** internal issue
  <pre> comment
** ratliff
** sprint prep
** KPI improvements
** improve tutorial
  </pre>
** leosilva
** security updates
* Highlighted packages
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2018/ubuntu-meeting.2018-03-19-16.38.moin.txt
