{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Chair was Daviey

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** jjohansen to provide tests for bug 582963 and request SRU
* Maverick development (jib)
** Status for RC bugs (ttx)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** pv-ops kernel status update
** More backslash on bug Bug:574910
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-09-14 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
=== Minutes ===

===== Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
** jjohansen to provide tests for bug 582963 and request SRU
*** Deferred to kernel section of meeting
===== Topic:  Maverick development (jib) =====
** See Meeting logs 
===== Topic:  Status for RC bugs (ttx) =====
** Action:  Daviey to contact upstream eucalyptus, regarding issues that seem to be blocked.
===== Topic:   Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
===== Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====
** Action:  jjohansen to follow up on bug 574910 with the current direction
** Action:  jjohansen and smoser to report on bug 613083 bug 606373 and next meeting
===== Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====
** Action:  sommer and mathiaz to sync up regarding puppet server guide
===== Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0) =====
** Deferring until next meeting 
===== Topic:  Open Discussion =====
** Action:  RoAkSoAx to email ubuntu server mailing list with update of cluster stack 
===== Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time =====

===== Meeting Actions =====
* Daviey to contact upstream eucalyptus, regarding issues that seem to be blocked.
* jjohansen to follow up on bug 574910 with the current direction
* jjohansen and smoser to report on bug 613083 bug 606373 and next meeting
* sommer and mathiaz to sync up regarding puppet server guide
* RoAkSoAx to email ubuntu server mailing list with update of cluster stack progress 

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 14th at 18:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[18:59] <Daviey> #startmeeting
[18:59] <MootBot> Meeting started at 12:59. The chair is Daviey.
[18:59] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:00] <hallyn> \o
[19:00] <jiboumans> o/
[19:00] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:00] <Daviey> jjohansen to provide tests for bug 582963 and request SRU
[19:00] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 582963 in Ubuntu Server papercuts "SSL pass phrase dialog can't read input" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/582963
[19:00] <hggdh> ~Ã´~
[19:00]  * Daviey suspects that is a typo in the agenda
[19:00] <jjohansen> yikes is it that time already
[19:00] <jjohansen> :)
[19:00] <Daviey> I assume it's really regarding bug #574910
[19:00] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574910 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "High load averages on Lucid while idling" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574910
[19:01] <zul> heylo
[19:01] <sommer> o//
[19:01] <Daviey> I see there has been a recent flurry of updates with that bug
[19:01] <jjohansen> yes :(
[19:01] <Daviey> jjohansen, Can you comment further, or are we still blocked?
[19:01] <jjohansen> and I was in the middle of composing a reply to alex
[19:02] <Daviey> doh
[19:02] <jjohansen> Daviey: I submitted my patch, but it doesn't look like its in the .43 proposed kernel
[19:02] <Daviey> darn
[19:02] <jjohansen> I am checking to see if it got queued to the next one or accidentally dropped
[19:03] <smoser> o/
[19:03] <Daviey> jjohansen, OK, great - do you want to look into that, and we carry on with it later in the meeting?
[19:03] <jjohansen> Daviey: sure
[19:03] <shringo> o/
[19:03] <Daviey> (great)
[19:03] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Maverick development (jib)
[19:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development (jib)
[19:03] <jiboumans> We just started the cycle; complexity wise we should be fine. Division should be about 2/3 bug fixing, stabilizing, testing, etc and 1/3 remaining work items. If anyone feels there are red flags, blockers or too high load, please let me and ttx know asap. Over to you ttx
[19:04] <ttx> right
[19:04] <ttx> just wanted to give a status of RC bugs
[19:04] <Daviey> ttx, Are you moving onto Status for RC bugs?
[19:04] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Status for RC bugs (ttx)
[19:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Status for RC bugs (ttx)
[19:05] <ttx> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/MaverickReleaseStatus is up to date
[19:05] <ttx> I know Daviey should fix the first 3 i nthe list quite quickly
[19:05] <ttx> The third one is more complex, Bug 627963
[19:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 627963 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "[maverick] Inconsistent certificates prevent CC to start correctly (no cc.log)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/627963
[19:05] <ttx> Daviey: any luck on that one ?
[19:06] <Daviey> ttx, Blocked on upstream last i saw
[19:06]  * Daviey will poke
[19:06] <ttx> ok
[19:06] <hggdh> I would like to add bug 622818 to, at least, the critical/high bug list
[19:06] <ttx> smoser: news on Bug 623609 ?
[19:06] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 622818 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "unexpected errors after a sequence of tests" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/622818
[19:06] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 623609 in grub2 (Ubuntu Maverick) "grub-pc needs some help in uec instances" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/623609
[19:06] <ttx> hggdh: will do
[19:06] <smoser> no news there.
[19:07] <Daviey> ttx, Following the meeting - i'll send a poke to upstream.
[19:07] <smoser> i've not made any progress on it today.
[19:07] <Daviey> .. regarding all the bugs we are waiting on them for
[19:07] <ttx> ok, keep us posted :)
[19:07] <Daviey> wilco
[19:07] <Daviey> [ACTION] Daviey to contact upstream eucalyptus, regarding issues that seem to be blocked.
[19:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to contact upstream eucalyptus, regarding issues that seem to be blocked.
[19:07] <ttx> People assigned to any of the "Other Critical/High Maverick bugs"  should be working on their targets
[19:08] <ttx> And finally, the lucky ones that don't have any should look for bugs to take in the "Other Maverick bugs (targets of opportunity)" list !
[19:08] <ttx> that's all for me, unless there are questions
[19:09] <Daviey> ttx, thanks for the update.
[19:09] <Daviey> [TOPIC]  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:09] <MootBot> New Topic:   Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:09] <hggdh> from here, life is good, Eucalyptus seems almost stable
[19:09] <Daviey> splendid
[19:09] <hggdh> as I commented last week, we (QA) will soon be proposing some changes to regression-* bugs
[19:10] <hggdh> but, right now, we are still building up the case
[19:10] <hggdh> (use case)
[19:10] <hggdh> apart from that, nothing
[19:10] <Daviey> hggdh, Where will these proposals be documented?  u-devel-discuss ?
[19:10] <Daviey> Does anyone have anything they need from QA or specifically hggdh ?
[19:11] <hggdh> Daviey: they will be discussed on next bug-squad meeting, and then on the -dev ML
[19:11] <SpamapS> aww
[19:11] <SpamapS> FUN left
[19:11] <SpamapS> :(
[19:11] <Daviey> (TBC, i've been speaking with hggdh directly out of band )
[19:11] <Daviey> hggdh, you rock.... thanks!
[19:11] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:11] <jjohansen> Hrmm where to begin
[19:12] <Daviey> jjohansen, Any update on bug 574910?
[19:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574910 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "High load averages on Lucid while idling" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574910
[19:12] <jjohansen> ah yes, the patch is committed and queued up for the next proposed kernel
[19:12] <Daviey> rockin'
[19:12] <Daviey> jjohansen, I guess there isn't a short ETA for that?
[19:13] <jjohansen> it will be in the .16 EC2 kernel only not .44 generic/server kernels
[19:13] <jjohansen> hopefully sooner than later
[19:13] <Daviey> jjohansen, Thanks for that - hopefully it will land soon :)..  Does the bug mention that?
[19:13] <ttx> jjohansen: there still seem to be people complaining on that bug
[19:13] <jjohansen> the last proposed kernels got backed up behind security updates, and there has been a flurry of action recently to try and fix that
[19:14] <ttx> is it bug confusion, or could it be real ?
[19:14] <jjohansen> Daviey: it doesn't yet
[19:14] <Daviey> jjohansen, Can i action that?
[19:14] <jjohansen> the recent flurry of activity on the bug, doesn't seem to be related to the patch I submitted
[19:14] <smoser> its unrelated to jjohansen's patch.
[19:14] <Daviey> [ACTION] jjohansen to follow up on bug 574910 with the current direction
[19:14] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jjohansen to follow up on bug 574910 with the current direction
[19:14] <jjohansen> but appears to be other issues causing load problems
[19:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574910 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "High load averages on Lucid while idling" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574910
=== RoAk is now known as andreserl
[19:15] <Daviey> jjohansen, But to confirm, you and your team have it "in hand"?
[19:15] <jjohansen> Some of these should be addressed in the most recent proposed kernels
[19:16] <jjohansen> Daviey: we are working on it, but there seems to be multiple different bugs being hit here all getting referenced under high load average
[19:16] <Daviey> :(
[19:17] <Daviey> jjohansen, I just wanted to clarify that if we move on from this subject now, activity will still happen?
[19:17] <jjohansen> but yes as we can pick out the information we are working on them
[19:17] <jjohansen> yes
[19:17] <Daviey> ie, not blocked on anything we can help with.
[19:17] <Daviey> jjohansen, awesome
[19:17] <Daviey> jjohansen, OK.. the next item on my kill list for you is: pv-ops kernel status update
[19:17] <jjohansen> Well the server team could join the kernel team and help with the bug back log
[19:17] <Daviey> jjohansen, Happy to, if your team wants our backlog :)
[19:18] <jjohansen> hehe, I think you would get the short end of the stick (I think we are getting back up in the 10,000 bug territory again)
[19:18] <Daviey> !
[19:19] <jjohansen> We have had some interaction with Amazon on bug #613083 and hope to see some progress on it soon
[19:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 613083 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Maverick) "user-data is corrupted inside metadata service" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/613083
[19:19] <Daviey> smoser, Are you working with jjohansen and co, tostay updated with what is happening?
[19:20] <smoser> yes. i'm composing a amazon targetted mail right now
[19:20] <jjohansen> Bug #606373 is a race, that is either in upstart or the tty layer that I didn't manage to track down by the end of last week
[19:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 606373 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Maverick) "cloud-init output does not get to console when booted with pv-grub and ramdisk" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/606373
[19:20] <Daviey> rocki'.. so there is some progress - but not a fix yet?
[19:20] <jjohansen> Daviey: yep smoser is rocking
[19:20] <Daviey> Okay.. i guess that we can leave it suitable hands
[19:21] <jjohansen> Daviey: not fixed but we should see progress this week
[19:21] <Daviey> [ACTION] jjohansen and smoser to report on bug 613083 bug 606373 and next meeting
[19:21] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jjohansen and smoser to report on bug 613083 bug 606373 and next meeting
[19:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 613083 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Maverick) "user-data is corrupted inside metadata service" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/613083
[19:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 606373 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Maverick) "cloud-init output does not get to console when booted with pv-grub and ramdisk" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/606373
[19:21] <Daviey> jjohansen, Ok.. that is everything on my kill list for you.. did you have anything else to raise?
[19:22] <jjohansen> hrmm, I thought I did but I am not finding it in my notes, so it is probably an AA bug instead of something your interested in
[19:23] <Daviey> jjohansen, Ahh.. ok - if you remember what it is - can you let one of us know? :)
[19:23] <jjohansen> yep
[19:23] <Daviey> anybody have anything to bring to jjohansen ?
[19:23] <zul> nope
[19:23] <Daviey> jjohansen, Ok.. thanks for your effort
[19:23] <Daviey> \o/
[19:23] <zul> my bug has been fixed
[19:24] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:24] <Daviey> I guess he isn't here.. oh well :(
[19:24] <mathiaz> Daviey: he waved
[19:25] <mathiaz> Daviey: let's wait a little bit...
[19:25] <sommer> ooh ooh, I'm here
[19:25] <sommer> heh, not much new to report though
[19:25] <Daviey> sommer, o/
[19:25] <mathiaz> sommer: is there a section about puppet in the server guide?
[19:25] <sommer> I think most of the bugs are fixed for maverick, and I might have a puppet section done before thursday
[19:25] <sommer> mathiaz: in the works
[19:25] <Daviey> sommer, you really are on fire.
[19:25] <mathiaz> sommer: ok
[19:25] <mathiaz> sommer: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/u/mathiaz-ubuntu-10.10.html
[19:25] <Daviey> sommer, Is there anything you need from us?
[19:26] <mathiaz> sommer: ^^ shows that I'm supposed to review a section about puppet
[19:26] <sommer> mathiaz: ya, I'll probably get something in tomorrow ish
[19:26] <mathiaz> sommer: ok - I may have time to review it
[19:26] <sommer> Daviey: I think I'm good at the moment
[19:27] <Daviey> mathiaz / sommer: Okay, can you gues sync up tomorrow?
[19:27] <mathiaz> sommer:when is documentation freeze?
[19:27] <sommer> mathiaz: thursday
[19:27] <Daviey> Hmm
[19:27] <Daviey> This isn't in archive docs, tho is it?
[19:27] <mathiaz> Daviey: for maverick IIRC there is still an ubuntu-server guide package
[19:28] <Daviey> I thought this was actioned to be dropped for maverick?
[19:28] <sommer> mathiaz: it shouldn't get built for maverick... the instructions were dropped from the makefile
[19:28] <Daviey> ok..
[19:28] <sommer> so it should be only available in HTML and PDF
[19:29] <Daviey> [ACTION] sommer and mathiaz to sync up regarding puppet server guide
[19:29] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer and mathiaz to sync up regarding puppet server guide
[19:29] <Daviey> Any other comments regarding the awesome server guide?
[19:29] <hallyn> it's awesome
[19:29] <Daviey> \o/
[19:29] <Daviey> thanks sommer, you rock.
[19:29] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:29] <jiboumans> sommer++
[19:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[19:29] <sommer> thank you guys :-)
[19:30] <Daviey> I guess kim0 isn't here :(
[19:30] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:31] <Daviey> Anything?
[19:31] <zul> almost breaking the record for shortest meeitng
[19:31] <RoAkSoAx> couple of cluster stack related package are already in main, we still waiting for cluster-glue, cluster-agents, pacemaker
[19:31] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, What is the delay?
[19:33] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, ?
[19:33] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: Well it's complicated. In simple words, upstream keeps the packaging as it is, and they dont wanna do library split, which was required by ubuntu developers
[19:33] <Daviey> :(
[19:33] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Is this still targeted at Maverick?
[19:34] <RoAkSoAx> but we are hoping that they do a final review and accept packages as they are since upstream is gonna keep them as they are (upstream + deabian)
[19:34] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: yes, it is still targeted for maverick otherwise we might end up having a non-working cluster stack, *or* RHCS without pacemaker support
[19:34] <Daviey> :(
[19:34] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Are the relevant exceptions raised?
=== ghostcube_ is now known as ghostcube
[19:35] <RoAkSoAx> we will just wait for a final review before actually going forward on removing pacemaker support to RHCS
[19:35] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Is there anything you need from the team?
[19:36] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: support for getting the cluster related packages in main :)
[19:36] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, In what sense, a MIR report?
[19:37] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: MIR's are filed, just hold on a sec
[19:37] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Okay.. Don't rushg to find it this moment.. Can i ask that you send an update to ubuntu-server mailing list?
[19:38] <RoAkSoAx> bug #527155, bug #527195, and bug #527142 (which exaplins the situation)
[19:38] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 527155 in cluster-agents (Ubuntu) "[MIR] cluster-agents" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/527155
[19:38] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 527195 in pacemaker (Ubuntu) "[MIR] pacemaker" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/527195
[19:38] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 527142 in cluster-glue (Ubuntu) "[MIR] cluster-glue" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/527142
[19:38] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Is it okay for you to send a further update to the mailing list?
[19:38] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: the situation is better explained in cluster-glue MIR, by ivoks
[19:39] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: sure!
[19:39] <Daviey> Current progress, what is blocking and if you or ivoks need help!
[19:39] <Daviey> Rockin'
[19:39] <Daviey> [ACTION] RoAkSoAx to email ubuntu server mailing list with update of cluster stack progress for maverick.
[19:39] <MootBot> ACTION received:  RoAkSoAx to email ubuntu server mailing list with update of cluster stack progress for maverick.
[19:39] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:40] <Daviey> Regrettably, Tuesday 2010-09-14 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:40] <Daviey> thanks folks!
[19:40] <Daviey> #endmeeting
</pre>
