{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by roaksoax at 16:01:44 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-05-29-16.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
''ACTION:'' zul to sync up with arosales and jamespage.  (roaksoax, 16:03:34)
''ACTION:'' email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership  (roaksoax, 16:06:47)

* Quantal Development
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+specs?role=drafter   (arosales, 16:15:03)
** ''LINK:'' http://ubuntuserver.wordpress.com/2012/05/23/server-team-20120522-meeting-minutes/   (Daviey, 16:16:04)
** ''ACTION:'' rbasak to drive migration to ubuntuserver.org  (roaksoax, 16:18:49)
** ''ACTION:'' To finish BP documentation and mark them Review  (roaksoax, 16:21:42)
** ''ACTION:'' To finish BP documentation and mark them Review ASAP!  (roaksoax, 16:22:14)
** ''LINK:'' http://people.canonical.com/~davewalker/delta.html   (roaksoax, 16:23:10)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/hardware-q-kernel-version-and-flavors   (rbasak, 16:31:39)

* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

* Open Discussion
''ACTION:'' : Anyone interested in taking care of bug #972077 to ping smoser  (roaksoax, 16:39:21)

* Announce next meeting date and time

Meeting ended at 16:42:05 UTC.

=== Action items ===

* zul to sync up with arosales and jamespage.
* email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership
* rbasak to drive migration to ubuntuserver.org
* To finish BP documentation and mark them Review ASAP!
* Anyone interested in taking care of bug #972077 to ping smoser

=== Action items, by person ===

* zul to sync up with arosales and jamespage.
* email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership
* zul to sync up with arosales and jamespage.
* rbasak to drive migration to ubuntuserver.org
* Anyone interested in taking care of bug #972077 to ping smoser
* To finish BP documentation and mark them Review ASAP!

=== People present (lines said) ===

* roaksoax (91)
* Daviey (34)
* arosales (18)
* jamespage (15)
* smoser (13)
* rbasak (10)
* ubottu (10)
* meetingology (10)
* smb (9)
* zul (8)
* utlemming (5)
* Ursinha (4)
* hallyn (4)
* m_3 (3)
* SpamapS (2)
* lynxman (2)

=== Full Log ===

 16:01:44 <roaksoax> #startmeeting

 16:01:44 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue May 29 16:01:44 2012 UTC.  The chair is roaksoax. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:01:44 <meetingology> 

 16:01:44 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:01:48 <Daviey> hey-ol-a

 16:02:10 <roaksoax> so let's get started

 16:02:15 <roaksoax> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:02:16 <utlemming> o/

 16:02:32 <roaksoax> zul talk to arosales and jamespage offline about SRU tracker

 16:02:41 <zul> in progress

 16:02:41 <roaksoax> zul: any updates about the SRU tracker?

 16:02:45 <arosales> roaksoax: I am syncing up with zul and jamespage

 16:02:55 <arosales> deciding on which tool to use

 16:03:05 <arosales> zul or possibly Ursinha's

 16:03:10 <arosales> so in progress

 16:03:16 <roaksoax> arosales: awesome!

 16:03:24 <jamespage> o/

 16:03:25 <Ursinha> we're talking about it tomorrow :)

 16:03:34 <roaksoax> [ACTION] zul to sync up with arosales and jamespage.

 16:03:34 * meetingology zul to sync up with arosales and jamespage.

 16:03:45 <roaksoax> zul: zul to also pull Ursinha into SRU tracker talks --> I'm guessing that's stillk in progress too

 16:03:54 <arosales> roaksoax: correct :-)

 16:04:07 <zul> yay

 16:04:09 <roaksoax> alright, let'/s move on

 16:04:11 <roaksoax> email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership

 16:04:34 <roaksoax> who's displayed their interes in becoming part of the ubuntu-mir team?

 16:04:54 <roaksoax> or should the question be, have all the interested people emailed arosales and/or Daviey ?

 16:04:54 <arosales> I am also sync'ing up with Ursinha on blueprint management (ie tracking blueprint changes)

 16:05:08 <hallyn> ruh roh

 16:05:35 <arosales> I didn't receive any mails on interest for ubuntu-mir team

 16:05:46 <Daviey> me neider

 16:05:59 <roaksoax> alright, so people I believe you have a chance to offer yourselves and become part of the ubuntu-mir team

 16:06:17 <Daviey> lets defer it again.

 16:06:17 <roaksoax> moving on

 16:06:24 <arosales> roaksoax: can we give it one additional week for follow up and then close on it next week?

 16:06:34 <roaksoax> arosales: sure!

 16:06:37 <arosales> thanks

 16:06:47 <roaksoax> [ACTION] email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership

 16:06:47 * meetingology email arosales/Daviey if interested in ubuntu-mir membership

 16:06:58 <roaksoax> alright, moving on

 16:07:01 <roaksoax> [TOPIC] Quantal Development

 16:07:08 <roaksoax> Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:07:28 <roaksoax> bug #888123

 16:07:30 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 888123 in openjdk-7 (Ubuntu Quantal) "erlang version 14.b.2-dfsg-3ubuntu2 failed to build with openjdk-7" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/888123

 16:07:47 <roaksoax> jamespage: any updates?

 16:08:00 <jamespage> nope

 16:08:15 <jamespage> work on the underlying issue is on hold ATM

 16:08:25 <roaksoax> ok

 16:08:29 <roaksoax> bug 974584

 16:08:29 <jamespage> not mega urgent at this point in time unless someone wants to merge erlang

 16:08:31 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 974584 in sysvinit (Ubuntu Quantal) "Semaphores cannot be created in lxc container" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/974584

 16:08:44 <hallyn> working with debian maintainer

 16:09:07 <roaksoax> awesome!

 16:09:23 <roaksoax> bug #920197

 16:09:25 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 920197 in python-webob (Ubuntu Quantal) "[SRU] webob last stable version 1.1.1 response header bug" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/920197

 16:09:37 <roaksoax> zul: any updates?

 16:09:54 <zul> roaksoax: pending SRU team

 16:10:16 <roaksoax> awesome!

 16:10:23 <roaksoax> bug #1001846

 16:10:25 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1001846 in cobbler (Ubuntu) "cobbler fails to install with error code 1" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1001846

 16:10:48 <roaksoax> we were waiting for more input, and we got it. It should be taken care of this week

 16:10:54 <Daviey> \o/

 16:11:02 <roaksoax> bug #880339

 16:11:03 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 880339 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Precise) "AppArmor profile needs update" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/880339

 16:11:33 <roaksoax> still incomplete

 16:11:47 <roaksoax> comments point to a might be related bug

 16:12:19 <roaksoax> bug #993291

 16:12:21 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 993291 in nis (Ubuntu Quantal) "[SRU] package nis 3.17-32ubuntu1.2 failed to install/upgrade: invoke-rc.d: unknown initscript, /etc/init.d/nis not found." [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/993291

 16:13:01 <roaksoax> jamespage: any updates ^^?

 16:13:09 <jamespage> yeah - I need to take a look at that still

 16:13:13 <jamespage> so no

 16:13:20 <roaksoax> alright!

 16:13:23 <roaksoax> so let's move on to blueprints

 16:13:33 <roaksoax> Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-server.html

 16:13:58 <arosales> how are folks doing with getting work items documented?

 16:14:07 * rbasak hasn't started yet :-/

 16:14:10 <rbasak> It's on my todo list

 16:14:20 * m_3 too

 16:14:31 <arosales> The release team would like to start setting topics and tread lines by tomorrow

 16:14:32 <roaksoax> we also need to update the above link as they quantal BP's are not yet listed

 16:14:39 <Daviey> So.. Started going through the ones with myself as approver... and they are taking good shape.

 16:14:46 <Daviey> Still needs a little more detail on some.

 16:14:47 <smoser> that url above should probably have been http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html

 16:14:55 <hallyn> Daviey: note the user-ns and device-ns ones are not yet approved

 16:14:57 <roaksoax> ah daa

 16:14:59 <hallyn> (I marked them 'Review')

 16:15:01 * roaksoax dumbd

 16:15:02 <arosales> The list I am looking at for q for server

 16:15:03 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+specs?role=drafter

 16:15:39 <arosales> at least for blueprints we need to get work items on, prioritize, and approve for work this cycle

 16:15:43 <Daviey> The links i supplied in last weeks meeting are probably of use.

 16:16:01 <roaksoax> ok, so all of us should finish writing our BP's, make sure the WI are docmented so that they can get approved and we can start working on them

 16:16:04 <Daviey> http://ubuntuserver.wordpress.com/2012/05/23/server-team-20120522-meeting-minutes/

 16:16:08 <Daviey> Read Quantal Development

 16:16:54 <roaksoax> Specs currently under consideration are at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+specs?role=drafter. If a spec is missing, let Daviey know.

 16:17:10 <roaksoax> Blueprints which $user is responsible for driving to Approved state can be found at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~$user/+specs?searchtext=servercloud-q&role=assignee. Please set those which require review to Review state.

 16:17:22 <arosales> So is EOD wednesday too soon to have the blueprints ready for approval?

 16:17:43 <roaksoax> Yes from my part

 16:17:51 <roaksoax> s/part/side

 16:17:52 <m_3> yes

 16:17:55 <Daviey> Hmm

 16:17:58 <rbasak> Daviey: can we please get the typo fixed on ubuntuserver.wordpress.com? It's embarrassing. I don't want to be associated with that site!

 16:18:25 <Daviey> rbasak: Do you want to drive it's migration to ubuntuserver.org, canonical hosted?

 16:18:30 <Daviey> [ACTION] ^

 16:18:30 * meetingology ^

 16:18:49 <roaksoax> [ACTION] rbasak to drive migration to ubuntuserver.org

 16:18:49 * meetingology rbasak to drive migration to ubuntuserver.org

 16:18:53 <roaksoax> thank you rbasak :)

 16:18:58 <Daviey> thanks rbasak

 16:19:04 <Daviey> So.. Lets re-cap of the process...

 16:19:15 <arosales> Thursday an better for folks completing blueprint work item documentation?

 16:19:22 <Daviey> When you think your spec is ready for review, please mark them 'Review'

 16:20:07 <Daviey> arosales & myself with significant help from jamespage and smoser will either give feedback, or Approve

 16:20:44 <Daviey> So.. We can start that ASAP.. so please get your blueprints into a state where you can mark them Review ASAP, and we can start getting them rolled out

 16:20:48 <Daviey> Sound good?

 16:21:42 <roaksoax> [ACTION] To finish BP documentation and mark them Review

 16:21:42 * meetingology To finish BP documentation and mark them Review

 16:22:05 <Daviey> (ASAP :)

 16:22:10 <roaksoax> so I guess the silence means all of us agree

 16:22:14 <roaksoax> [ACTION] To finish BP documentation and mark them Review ASAP!

 16:22:14 * meetingology To finish BP documentation and mark them Review ASAP!

 16:22:15 <zul> suuuure :)

 16:22:20 <jamespage> +1

 16:22:25 <roaksoax> ok, let's move on

 16:22:30 <arosales> it would be nice for trend line setting, and tracking if we could have the bulk of work item documentation this competed by this week :-)

 16:22:49 <roaksoax> indeed!

 16:23:00 <roaksoax> alright, so we also have merges to take care of

 16:23:10 <roaksoax> [LINK] http://people.canonical.com/~davewalker/delta.html

 16:23:25 <roaksoax> LINK: http://people.canonical.com/~davewalker/delta.html

 16:23:48 <roaksoax> please take care of your merges, so go wild and have fun

 16:24:03 <roaksoax> anyone else has anything to discuss?

 16:24:05 <Daviey> Please feel free to open sync/merge bugs to track assignment. :)

 16:24:09 <Daviey> ^ optional

 16:24:46 <roaksoax> ok, so there doesn't seem to be anything else. Let's move on then

 16:24:55 <roaksoax> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:25:10 <roaksoax> any event where we will be particupating that's coming soon?

 16:26:24 <roaksoax> I guess there isn't

 16:26:38 <roaksoax> moving on

 16:26:40 <roaksoax> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:26:42 <roaksoax> hggdh: o/

 16:27:27 <roaksoax> uhmm it seems that hggdh is not around, so let;s come back t him later

 16:27:40 <roaksoax> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:27:44 <roaksoax> smb: o/

 16:27:49 <smb> yessir! :)

 16:27:53 <smb> Beside of other pieces here and there, a quick test on the libvirt merge and most time spent on trying to reproduce bug 999755 without having a simple test case. This was unsuccessful but since someone posted exactly what was their reproducer I could confirm this to be no problem restricted to VMs. So now I can try out some variations locally.

 16:27:54 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 999755 in linux (Ubuntu) "Kernel crash in rb_next doing ohai loops" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/999755

 16:27:57 <smb> ..

 16:28:45 <roaksoax> awesome

 16:28:54 <roaksoax> smb: anything else you'd like us to be aware of?

 16:29:15 <Daviey> smb: Anything on the xen front?

 16:29:18 <smb> smoser, and utlemming are already away of -virtual going away

 16:29:29 <Daviey> going away?

 16:29:30 <smb> away -> aware

 16:29:36 <Daviey> Where is this documented ?

 16:29:47 <rbasak> It was mentioned at UDS IIRC

 16:30:01 <smb> Should be somewhere in the uds flavours track

 16:30:16 <smoser> we were aware.

 16:30:20 <Daviey> That should probably be documented somewhere more expressive

 16:30:20 <smoser> but that didn't stop it from breaking things./

 16:30:37 <smoser> smb spoke to me about it.

 16:30:57 <smb> Daviey, where would such a place be?

 16:31:07 <Daviey> smoser: so it's your fault i didn't know?  noted. :)

 16:31:08 <utlemming> On our side, it is being tracked as Bug #1005551

 16:31:10 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1005551 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "Quantal does not boot on EC2" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1005551

 16:31:18 <Daviey> smb: probably -server ML

 16:31:31 <smoser> well, probably -devel actually.

 16:31:37 <smoser> its not just -server

 16:31:39 <rbasak> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/hardware-q-kernel-version-and-flavors

 16:31:58 <smb> OK, I can check and send out a specific "warning" about that

 16:32:02 <utlemming> I'm working on cleaning up the fallout for the build process, but it will require packaing changes and build process changes.

 16:32:23 <Daviey> smb: thanks!

 16:32:41 <Daviey> utlemming: if it's significant, better track it on a blueprint :)

 16:33:22 <utlemming> Daviey: ack

 16:33:45 <roaksoax> alright, should that be all, let's move on

 16:34:31 <roaksoax> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:34:33 <roaksoax> rbasak: o/

 16:34:34 <rbasak> Nothing to report, although you may be interested in some ARM server news: http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/05/29/dell_copper_arm_server/ . Any questions for me?

 16:35:22 <roaksoax> i guess there's not

 16:35:23 <zul> copper is shiney

 16:36:12 <roaksoax> anotherone hgere : http://www.marketwatch.com/story/dell-unveils-programs-to-enable-the-arm-based-server-ecosystem-and-accelerate-development-and-testing-of-arm-based-applications-and-solutions-2012-05-29

 16:36:40 <roaksoax> ok, so moving on

 16:36:43 <roaksoax> [TOPIC] Open Discussion

 16:36:58 <roaksoax> anyone has anything for us?

 16:37:06 <smoser> i've got one

 16:37:14 <roaksoax> I just want to publicly congratulate smoser :)

 16:37:17 <smoser> rbasak, and i would like to solicit bids for https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/972077

 16:37:19 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 972077 in apt (Ubuntu) "apt repository disk format has race conditions" [Medium,Confirmed]

 16:37:25 <Daviey> Yeah... So.

 16:37:29 <smoser> by solicit bids, i mean "any one interested in doing this ?"

 16:37:36 <zul> lol

 16:37:43 <Daviey> Smoser has been declared the Infrastructure team Tech Lead.  Three cheers for smoser

 16:37:46 <Daviey> o/

 16:37:50 <zul> yay!

 16:37:52 <jamespage> \o/

 16:37:53 <roaksoax> \o/

 16:37:58 <smb> \o/

 16:37:58 <Ursinha> :D

 16:37:59 <jamespage> congrats smoer

 16:37:59 <smoser> rbasak, is interested, but is time limited, and if someone else wants to take a whack at it, we have an idea of a proof of concept that we'd like to implement

 16:38:02 <lynxman> \o/

 16:38:02 <jamespage> or even smoser

 16:38:03 <Daviey> Now.. Any hard questions related to Infra, please feel free to tax smoser.

 16:38:04 <Ursinha> congrats smoser

 16:38:05 <arosales> congrats smoser

 16:38:06 <lynxman> smoser: you're da man

 16:38:07 <utlemming> all praise to smoser!

 16:38:07 <m_3> *\o/*

 16:38:10 <roaksoax> congrats Mr. Moser

 16:38:10 <smoser> (yes, thanks for the congrats, NOW BACK TO THE MEETING!)

 16:38:11 <smoser> :)

 16:38:15 <Ursinha> lol

 16:38:16 <SpamapS> hody

 16:38:19 <SpamapS> howdy even

 16:38:21 <roaksoax> smoser: Open Discussion :)

 16:38:25 <Daviey> SpamapS: just in time.

 16:38:37 <zul> congrats captain oh my captain...my sparkle in my eye

 16:38:40 <rbasak> congrats smoser!

 16:38:46 <smoser> so, if anyone would want to take a look at implementing the apt client side of our proposed fix, please feel free to ping me.

 16:39:18 <jamespage> o/

 16:39:21 <roaksoax> [ACTION]: Anyone interested in taking care of bug #972077 to ping smoser

 16:39:21 * meetingology : Anyone interested in taking care of bug #972077 to ping smoser

 16:39:22 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 972077 in apt (Ubuntu) "apt repository disk format has race conditions" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/972077

 16:39:39 <jamespage> Bug Triage Process - I sent an email to ubuntu-server last week

 16:39:46 <roaksoax> alright, no other subject to bring to the table?

 16:39:51 <jamespage> please could people have a read and provide feedback - thanks

 16:40:07 <rbasak> I think I need to follow the process that jamespage has documented and then make a note of any bugs I get stuck on and why

 16:40:19 <jamespage> rbasak, that is a fine way to debug it!

 16:40:57 <rbasak> jamespage: deubg? You want me to file bugs on the triage process? And how should we triage those bugs?

 16:41:06 <rbasak> :-)

 16:41:09 <jamespage> lol

 16:41:21 <roaksoax> lol

 16:41:36 <roaksoax> alright, if there's nothing more

 16:41:39 <roaksoax> I guess we can end this

 16:41:42 <roaksoax> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time

 16:41:48 <roaksoax> same time/place

 16:41:59 <roaksoax> (June 5th)

 16:42:02 <roaksoax> thank you all

 16:42:05 <roaksoax> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
