{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=07&day=11&year=2011&hour=28&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jul 11th 2011 17:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* kees
* jdstrand
* jjohansen
* mdeslaur
* micahg
* sbeattie

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Review of any previous action items
** attended the Oneiric Rally and among other things reviewed arkose. Gave feedback to upstream and he will be adding !AppArmor support
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending update
** dbus/apparmor work items
** patch pilot
** training class
** archive admin catch-up
** kees
** Weekly role: happy place
** patch pilot
** catching up on email from holiday and rally
** work items
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: community
** pending updates
** testing new apparmor apport hooks
** add !AppArmor profiles wiki page
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** HR tasks
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
* Miscellaneous and Questions
** When appropriate, look at finishing important (high/critical) work items before feature freeze 
** jdstrand to coordinate dbus/apparmor work with jjohansen
** [ACTION] jjohansen to give jdstrand updated apparmor for testing

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
