{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Review ACTION points from previous meeting

* gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team

V Development

Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (?)

Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
Ubuntu Server Team Events
Open Discussion
Announce next meeting date, time and chair

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Jan 20th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

    ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

Today is Jan 20th.
Jan 22nd is alpha 2 (For opt-in flavors)
Feb 19th is feature freeze and debian import freeze

caribou is busy on some obscure CUPS bug & apport upstream issues

smb would like info from James on bug 1410363 (see actions)

FOSDEM is soon (Saturday 31 January and Sunday 1 February 2015)
hallyn is presenting lxd at FOSDEM on Sunday.

teward says nginx merge coming as soon as the next debian updates come for it (assuming before featurefreeze).  last merge introduced out of the box POODLE mitigations in the default confs.

===== Meeting Actions =====

gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team -- gaughen and beisner discussing - keeping as ACTION point

jamespage to answer question in bug 1410363 in response to smb

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, January 27th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. 

=== Log ===
<pre>
[15:59] <smoser> o/
[16:00] <coreycb> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan 20 16:00:09 2015 UTC.  The chair is coreycb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <gnuoy`> o/
[16:00] <coreycb> Good morning everyone, and welcome to the weekly server team meeting
[16:00] <arges> o/
[16:00] <coreycb> or afternoon, etc
[16:01] <coreycb> well the first order of business, of course, it's jamespage's birthday!
[16:01] <coreycb> I think he's 25 or so.
[16:01] <coreycb> So happy birthday jamespage!
[16:01] <rharper> \o
[16:01] <coreycb> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <jamespage> thanks coreycb
[16:01] <jamespage> only 21 actually
[16:01] <rharper> heh
[16:02] <coreycb> action item from last week: gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team
[16:02] <jamespage> I must look old for my age of something
[16:02] <coreycb> :)
[16:02] <gaughen> coreycb, that is in progress. beisner and I are working on it.
[16:02] <kickinz1> o/
[16:03] <beisner> o/
[16:03] <coreycb> gaughen, ok want me to keep it as an action item?
[16:03] <gaughen> coreycb, sure
[16:03] <coreycb> #ACTION: gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team
[16:03] <meetingology> ACTION: : gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team
[16:03]  * rbasak waves at teward 
[16:03] <teward> o/
[16:03] <coreycb> #topic Vivid Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Vivid Development
[16:03] <coreycb> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
[16:04] <coreycb> today is Jan 20th
[16:04] <coreycb> Jan 22nd is alpha 2 (For opt-in flavors)
[16:04] <coreycb> Feb 19th is feature freeze and debian import freeze
[16:05] <coreycb> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:05] <coreycb> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:05] <coreycb> we have 4 ubuntu-server bugs, none of which are new since last week
[16:06] <smoser> the cloud-init ones are mine and will be uploaded to vivid this week for sure.
[16:07] <coreycb> smoser, thanks sounds good
[16:07] <coreycb> jamespage, do we need to poke anyone on juju systemd?
[16:08] <jamespage> coreycb, they know
[16:08] <jamespage> :-)
[16:08] <coreycb> and last but not least we have #1385851
[16:08] <coreycb> bug #1385851
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1385851 in openvpn (Ubuntu Vivid) "OpenVPN only supports TLS v1.0" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1385851
[16:09] <coreycb> patch is upstream and needs to get picked up
[16:09] <coreycb> ok so moving on..
[16:09] <coreycb> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:09] <coreycb> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html
[16:09] <coreycb> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server
[16:10] <coreycb> Everyone please keep your blueprints updated
[16:10] <coreycb> Does anyone have anything to add?
[16:10] <beisner> ahrg.   fyi, a pip upgrade of tempest-lib is probably necessary for anyone doing tempest smoke tests from o-c-t
[16:11] <beisner> ha, wrong channel, but might be useful here too.  ;-)
[16:11] <coreycb> beisner, ok thanks for the info! :)
[16:11] <coreycb> ok so let's move on then
[16:11] <coreycb> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:12]  * coreycb pokes caribou
[16:13] <caribou> sorry TZ mixup
[16:13] <coreycb> hey great timing caribou
[16:13] <coreycb> you're up with Server & Cloud Bugs
[16:13] <caribou> nothing in particular, busy on some obscure CUPS bug
[16:13] <caribou> & apport upstream issues
[16:14] <coreycb> ok does anyone have anything for caribou ?
[16:14] <coreycb> ok thanks caribou
[16:14] <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:15]  * coreycb pokes psivaa
[16:16] <coreycb> ok let's move on for now at least
[16:16] <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:16] <smb> I would kindly like to bring up bug 1410363 which I really need more information for. Not looking at anybody in particular but... jamespage !?
[16:16] <ubottu> bug 1410363 in linux (Ubuntu) "partition table updates require a reboot" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1410363
[16:16] <jamespage> smb, ah - I need to get you access
[16:16] <jamespage> smb, we can sort that out
[16:16] <jamespage> sorry
[16:16] <smb> jamespage, Or answer the question in the bug :)
[16:17] <coreycb> ok I'll make an action item and move on
[16:18] <coreycb> #ACTION: jamespage to answer question in bug 1410363 in response to smb
[16:18] <meetingology> ACTION: : jamespage to answer question in bug 1410363 in response to smb
[16:18] <ubottu> bug 1410363 in linux (Ubuntu) "partition table updates require a reboot" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1410363
[16:18] <coreycb> do we have anything else to cover from/for the kernel team?
[16:19] <coreycb> ok moving on
[16:20] <coreycb> and sorry psivaa, I do recall he's moved on from QA (thus the action item earlier)
[16:20] <coreycb> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:20] <coreycb> well, other than birthdays, anything going on?
[16:20] <rbasak> FOSDEM is soon
[16:21] <coreycb> ok thanks rbasak
[16:21] <coreycb> anyone going?
[16:21] <rbasak> I think I'm skipping it this year. I've too much on at the weekends right now :(
[16:22] <coreycb> ok
[16:22] <coreycb> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:22] <coreycb> Does anyone have anything else they would like to discuss or mention?
[16:22] <coreycb> Ok then back to work!
[16:23] <coreycb> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:23] <coreycb> Our next meeting will be Jan 27th at the same time
[16:23] <coreycb> jamespage, you are marked as the next chair
[16:24] <coreycb> Have a good week everyone
[16:24] <coreycb> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:24] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Jan 20 16:24:02 2015 UTC.
[16:24] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-01-20-16.00.moin.txt
[16:24] <gnuoy`> thanks coreycb
[16:24] <kickinz1> thanks coreycb
[16:24] <teward> coreycb: was going to say nginx is on my radar 24/7 and there's another merge coming as soon as the next debian updates come for it (assuming before featurefreeze).  last merge introduced out of the box POODLE mitigations in the default confs.
[16:24] <caribou> thanks coreycb
[16:24] <coreycb> teward, shoot, sorry
[16:24] <teward> since i know there's more and more people using nginx instead of apache, even in Ubuntu
[16:24] <teward> coreycb: no problem, i'm fighting my VPN to stay online
[16:24] <teward> so i had a connection derp either way
[16:24] <coreycb> teward, thanks, do you need anything from us?
[16:25] <teward> coreycb: nope, unless you guys need something for nginx, in which case throw me a message
[16:25] <teward> thanks to my schedule i can attend these meetings now ;)
[16:25] <coreycb> teward, yay :)  alright sounds good.
[16:25] <teward> coreycb: anything hyper important can hit me up via email or pings in -devel or -server
[16:26] <teward> as rbasak knows well :)
[16:26] <coreycb> teward, excellent thanks
[16:26] <teward> you're welcome.
[16:27]  * teward returns to coffee-fueled command line coding
[16:29] <hallyn> coreycb: oh, i wasn't watching closely enough - i'll be at fosdem, presending lxd :)
[16:29] <hallyn> ting
[16:30] <coreycb> hallyn, awesome!
[16:30] <coreycb> hallyn, good luck
[16:33] <hallyn> thanks :)
[16:50] <stgraber> hallyn: when's the lxd talk at fosdem?
[16:54] <hallyn> stgraber: I think on sunday.  lemme see if i have an email
[16:54] <hallyn> yeah sunday, don't know what time yet
</pre>
