{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

jamespage update Bug #1382632

jamespage update Bug #1369294

beisner work with QA team re: psivaa_ moving on to another team ie. new qa team rep

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Jan 6th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <gnuoy> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Dec 16 16:01:52 2014 UTC.  The chair is gnuoy. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:01] <gnuoy> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <beisner> o/ hi gnuoy
[16:02] <gnuoy> matsubara, looks like you followed up on Bug #1398443
[16:02] <ubottu> bug 1398443 in Ubuntu QA Website "rls-v-tracking missing for Vivid" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1398443
[16:02] <gnuoy> I don't see any other actions
[16:03] <gnuoy> #topic Vivid Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Vivid Development
[16:03] <matsubara> gnuoy, yep, the report is now working. :-)
[16:03] <coreycb> o/
[16:03] <gnuoy> Is now the point we'd normally look at http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server ?
[16:04] <gnuoy> oh , no
[16:04]  * gnuoy reads the script
[16:04] <gnuoy> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
[16:04] <gnuoy> Alpha 1 (for opt-in flavours)  on Thurs
[16:04] <gnuoy> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:04] <gnuoy> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:05] <gaughen> o/   \o    /o
[16:05] <gnuoy> There are four bug there which look like they need love
[16:06] <gnuoy> jamespage, has Bug #1388077
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1388077 in nova (Ubuntu Vivid) "Parallel periodic instance power state reporting from compute nodes has high impact on conductors and message broker" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1388077
[16:07] <gnuoy>  Bug #1387340 is marked as fixed released
[16:07] <ubottu> bug 1387340 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Vivid) "'output' directive not honored (/var/log/cloud-init-output.log missing)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1387340
[16:07] <gnuoy> * Fix committed
[16:07] <jamespage> o/
[16:07] <jamespage> sorry a bit late
[16:08] <gnuoy> Would scott be the one to shepherd that into Vivid and Utopic /
[16:08] <gnuoy> ?
[16:09] <gnuoy> jamespage, coreycb, have you seen Bug #1369294 ?
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1369294 in openvswitch (Ubuntu Vivid) "openvswitch-datapath-dkms 2.0.2-0ubuntu0.14.04.1: openvswitch kernel module failed to build [configure: error: Linux kernel in /lib/modules/XXX/build is version XXX, but version newer than 3.12.x is not supported]" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1369294
[16:10] <gnuoy> gaughen, should I be trying to get people to grab these bugs?
[16:11] <coreycb> gnuoy, I haven't seen it, not sure if james has
[16:11] <gaughen> gnuoy, if it's a hot bug yes.
[16:11] <gaughen> I also want folks going and answering questions on Ask Ubuntu
[16:12] <gnuoy> jamespage, you were working on Bug #1382632 , what needs to happen there?
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1382632 in horizon (Ubuntu Vivid) "Insecure key file permissions" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1382632
[16:13] <jamespage> actually I think that's a no-op
[16:13] <jamespage> for horizon at least
[16:13] <gnuoy> jamespage, can you update the bug accordingly ?
[16:14] <gnuoy> We also need to decide on the temperature of Bug #1387340	 in smoser absence
[16:14] <ubottu> bug 1387340 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Vivid) "'output' directive not honored (/var/log/cloud-init-output.log missing)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1387340
[16:15] <gnuoy> #action jamespage update Bug #1382632
[16:15] <meetingology> ACTION: jamespage update Bug #1382632
[16:15] <ubottu> bug 1382632 in horizon (Ubuntu Vivid) "Insecure key file permissions" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1382632
[16:16] <gnuoy> I think Bug #1387340 can wait till post-christmas unless anyone disagrees ?
[16:16] <ubottu> bug 1387340 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Vivid) "'output' directive not honored (/var/log/cloud-init-output.log missing)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1387340
[16:17] <jamespage> yes
[16:18] <gnuoy> #action jamespage update Bug #1369294
[16:18] <meetingology> ACTION: jamespage update Bug #1369294
[16:18] <ubottu> bug 1369294 in openvswitch (Ubuntu Vivid) "openvswitch-datapath-dkms 2.0.2-0ubuntu0.14.04.1: openvswitch kernel module failed to build [configure: error: Linux kernel in /lib/modules/XXX/build is version XXX, but version newer than 3.12.x is not supported]" [Medium,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1369294
[16:18] <jamespage> gnuoy, I've marked that bug as invalid - the fix is in curtin which is inflight
[16:18] <jamespage> and that one is also invalid
[16:18] <jamespage> done
[16:18] <gnuoy> ok, let's move on
[16:18] <jamespage> agreed
[16:18] <gnuoy> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:18] <gnuoy> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html
[16:18] <gnuoy> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server
[16:19] <gnuoy> insert-blueprint-update-request-here
[16:19] <gnuoy> anything anyone wants to add here?
[16:19] <gnuoy> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:20] <caribou> gnuoy: nothing important on my side, thanks
[16:20] <gnuoy> caribou, ?
[16:20] <gnuoy> caribou, thanks
[16:20] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:20] <gnuoy> psivaa_, anything from your side?
[16:21] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:21] <gnuoy> Any updates and/or questions for the Kernel Team?
[16:21] <arges> No updates from the kernel team. Feed us bugs please.
[16:21] <beisner> gnuoy, /me still needs to work with QA team re: psivaa_ moving on to another team
[16:22] <beisner> gnuoy, ie. new qa team rep
[16:22] <gnuoy> #action beisner work with QA team re: psivaa_ moving on to another team ie. new qa team rep
[16:22] <meetingology> ACTION: beisner work with QA team re: psivaa_ moving on to another team ie. new qa team rep
[16:22] <gnuoy> beisner, ta
[16:22] <gnuoy> arges, will do, thanks
[16:22] <gnuoy> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:23] <gnuoy> I guess the holiday season means there are no server related events for the next few weeks
[16:23] <gnuoy> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:24] <gnuoy> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:24] <gnuoy> Shall we say 2015-01-06 16:00 UTC for the next meeting?
[16:25] <gnuoy> I think we shall
[16:25] <gnuoy> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:25] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Dec 16 16:25:29 2014 UTC.
[16:25] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-12-16-16.01.moin.txt
</pre>
