{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ''ACTION:'' rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy.
** ''ACTION:'' arosales to review Juju blueprints with owners after OSCON.

* Saucy Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Summary ===
The meeting focus was centered around how the blueprints and bugs were looking coming up on Saucy Feature freeze.  The meeting took some time to review outstanding bugs, and blueprint progress. vUDS is also coming up and will be a good opportunity to check on Blueprint status for Saucy. Robie announced that we have highbank builds improving bild speeds for armhf. zul will also sync with smb on testing Xen 4.3 on Nova. Additional information and action items are below.

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/merges.html 
** ''ACTION:'' arosales to update Juju blueprints

==== Saucy Development ====
The discussion about "Saucy Development" started at 16:05.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/DKMS/view/Precise%20Proposed%20-generic-lts-raring/ 
** ''ACTION:'' jamespage to clean-up  openvswitch packaging for 12.04.3
** ''ACTION:'' roaksoax to clean-up iscsitarget packaging for 12.04.3
** ''ACTION:'' hallyn_ to confirm iscsitarget packaging done
** ''ACTION:'' Daviey to review 'dlm' in new queue for Saucy
** ''ACTION:'' zul to follow up on  mariadb/percona making it into Saucy
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:18)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server 
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1175028 
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1084028 in progress
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1156932 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nova/+bug/1199791 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/1206872 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1208455 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-quantumclient/+bug/1170849 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openvswitch/+bug/1189408 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-5.5/+bug/1203828 
* '''Blueprints''' (16:33)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-charmhelper2 needs some attention with marco returns
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms-ha-v2 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-hypervisor 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-hypervisor 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-ceph 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-webscale ok too?
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-qa 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-mongodb 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-contributor-onramp needs an update by jcastro
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-charm-testing needs an update by marco when he returns
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-cloud-archive has progress too

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:47.

** ''LINK:'' http://uds.ubuntu.com/ 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)" started at 16:47.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)" started at 16:48.

** ''ACTION:'' hallyn_ to coordinate with zul and smb on testing xen 4.3 on nova

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)" started at 16:53.

** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/builders if you'd like to gaze at the small army of them.
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2013-August/037564.html for Colin's announcement.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:57.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:57.
* NEXT MEETING: Tuesday 2013-08-20 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* arosales (168)
* jamespage (46)
* smb (20)
* hallyn_ (13)
* rbasak (13)
* zul (11)
* meetingology (10)
* ubottu (9)
* utlemming (5)
* roaksoax (4)
* Daviey (4)
* psivaa (1)
* plars (1)

===== Meeting Actions =====

=== Action items ===

* arosales to update Juju blueprints
* jamespage to clean-up  openvswitch packaging for 12.04.3
* roaksoax to clean-up iscsitarget packaging for 12.04.3
* hallyn_ to confirm iscsitarget packaging done
* Daviey to review 'dlm' in new queue for Saucy
* zul to follow up on  mariadb/percona making it into Saucy
* hallyn_ to coordinate with zul and smb on testing xen 4.3 on nova

=== Action items, by person ===

* arosales
** arosales to update Juju blueprints
* Daviey
** Daviey to review 'dlm' in new queue for Saucy
* hallyn_
** hallyn_ to confirm iscsitarget packaging done
** hallyn_ to coordinate with zul and smb on testing xen 4.3 on nova
* jamespage
** jamespage to clean-up  openvswitch packaging for 12.04.3
* roaksoax
** roaksoax to clean-up iscsitarget packaging for 12.04.3
* smb
** hallyn_ to coordinate with zul and smb on testing xen 4.3 on nova
* zul
** zul to follow up on  mariadb/percona making it into Saucy
** hallyn_ to coordinate with zul and smb on testing xen 4.3 on nova

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, August 20th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:02 <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug 13 16:02:27 2013 UTC.  The chair is arosales. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology> 

 16:02 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:02 <arosales> Hello, looks like we have jamespage, hallyn_ rbasak and Daviey here for the Server team meeting

 16:03 <jamespage> o/

 16:03 <arosales> feel free to wave if others are here

 16:03 <arosales> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <roaksoax> o/ (wihyt internet connectivity problems)

 16:03 * arosales rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy.

 16:04 <rbasak> It's landed.

 16:04 <arosales> rbasak, Daviey ^

 16:04 <rbasak> Daviey: to deploy?

 16:04 <rbasak> IIRC, there was a problem with the environment it's running in

 16:04 <arosales> hmm so there still be an action for Daviey

 16:05 <rbasak> Oh no, it looks like it's working.

 16:05 <rbasak> http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/merges.html

 16:05 <arosales> ah ok

 16:05 * arosales arosales to review Juju blueprints with owners after OSCON.

 16:05 <arosales> :-/

 16:05 <arosales> still an action for me

 16:05 <Daviey> rbasak: deployed?

 16:05 <arosales> #action arosales to update Juju blueprints

 16:05 * meetingology arosales to update Juju blueprints

 16:05 <rbasak> Daviey: yeah, looks good. Thanks!

 16:05 <arosales> #topic Saucy Development

 16:06 <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule

 16:06 <arosales> so we have 12.04.3 coming up

 16:06 <arosales> Aug 22nd

 16:06 <arosales> jamespage, any actions for server for 12.04.3?

 16:07 <jamespage> thats like 9 days ware

 16:07 <jamespage> arosales, hrm yes

 16:07 <arosales> any we need to call out here?

 16:07 <jamespage> arosales, we need to sweepup on dkms packages

 16:07 <arosales> volunteers?

 16:07 <jamespage> Daviey, smb: was anything agreed in-conjunction with the kernel team in this area?

 16:08 <Daviey> jamespage: I believe not

 16:08 <rbasak> I spoke to the kernel team at their sprint. AIUI, we (server team) need to fix the relevant packages. I think we need to improve the messaging over defaults and things, which I will follow up on.

 16:08 <smb> jamespage, Not that we agreed more that telling you they are broken (or better jibl does)

 16:08 <jamespage> https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/DKMS/view/Precise%20Proposed%20-generic-lts-raring/

 16:08 <smb> We have been looking at some of them during the sprint

 16:08 <jamespage> they are broken

 16:09 <jamespage> OK _ I'll pickup openvswitch is someone else can grab iscsitarget

 16:09 <jamespage> (iscsitarget should be a little easier/lower impact)

 16:09 <arosales> iscsitarget up for grabs, get it while its hot

 16:10 <smb> jamespage, I am pretty sure I did update openvswitch

 16:10 <jamespage> smb, for the 3.11 kernel in saucy right?

 16:10 <smb> Though in Saucy

 16:10 <smb> yeah

 16:10 <jamespage> smb, saucy has 1.10.1 which is pretty close for 3.10 support

 16:10 <jamespage> precise has 1.4 which is way off

 16:10 <arosales> #action jamespage to clean-up  openvswitch packaging for 12.04.3

 16:10 * meetingology jamespage to clean-up  openvswitch packaging for 12.04.3

 16:11 <arosales> jamespage, is that the correct action item?

 16:11 <jamespage> arosales, yep

 16:11 <arosales> ok any takes for iscsitarget?

 16:11 <arosales> jamespage thanks for volunteering for openvswitch

 16:11 <arosales> roaksoax, ?

 16:12 <arosales> roaksoax, I'll assign to you for now just so it has an owner, please feel free to delegate as necessary

 16:12 <arosales> #action roaksoax to clean-up iscsitarget packaging for 12.04.3

 16:12 * meetingology roaksoax to clean-up iscsitarget packaging for 12.04.3

 16:12 <roaksoax> arosales: here! (sorry having inet issues)

 16:13 <hallyn_> (i'll note down to take a look later this week if it's still open)

 16:13 <arosales> hallyn_, thanks

 16:13 <arosales> #action hallyn_ to confirm iscsitarget packaging done

 16:13 * meetingology hallyn_ to confirm iscsitarget packaging done

 16:13 <arosales> so for Saucy

 16:13 <arosales> we have feature freeze coming up

 16:14 <arosales> do folks have in all MIR requests, and large package updates?

 16:14 <arosales> jamespage, Daviey know of any items we need to review here?

 16:14 <arosales> FF is on Aug 29 for 13.10, btw

 16:15 <roaksoax> i need processing from the new queue for 'dlm'

 16:15 <roaksoax> Daviey: if you could please review that it would be greatly appreciated

 16:15 <jamespage> zul, Daviey: whats the status on mariadb/percona

 16:15 <arosales> #action Daviey to review 'dlm' in new queue for Saucy

 16:15 * meetingology Daviey to review 'dlm' in new queue for Saucy

 16:15 <jamespage> any chance they will make that date?

 16:16 <Daviey> roaksoax: Please ping me after the meeting, OTP

 16:16 <zul> jamespage:  unchanged afaik

 16:16 <arosales> zul, so unlikely to make it, or should we push in the next couple of weeks?

 16:16 <arosales> zul ok to action you with a follow up?

 16:16 <zul> arosales:  yeah

 16:16 <arosales> #action zul to follow up on  mariadb/percona making it into Saucy

 16:16 * meetingology zul to follow up on  mariadb/percona making it into Saucy

 16:16 <arosales> zul, thanks

 16:17 <arosales> any Saucy packages we should discuss here?

 16:17 <arosales> any other, that is.

 16:17 <Daviey> zul: Can you grab me about that action pls?  Need to fill you in.

 16:17 <zul> Daviey:  ack

 16:18 <arosales> I'll take it that covers the ones, and we should be able to catch others in the upcoming bugs and blueprint review.

 16:18 <arosales> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:18 <arosales> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:19 <arosales> going down the list sorted by importance being at the top for ubuntu-server

 16:19 <arosales> we have 13 bugs

 16:19 <arosales> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1175028

 16:19 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1175028 in mongodb (Ubuntu Saucy) "Mongodb links GPL code with SSL" [Critical,Fix committed]

 16:19 <arosales> ah sorry that is fix commited

 16:20 <jamespage> yeah - almost there with that

 16:20 <arosales> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1084028 in progress

 16:20 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1084028 in openvswitch (Ubuntu Saucy) "openvswitch based interfaces not started in time during boot" [High,In progress]

 16:20 <jamespage> that won't make it this cycle now

 16:20 <arosales> jamespage, ah :-/ ok, but thanks for the update.

 16:20 <arosales> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1156932

 16:20 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [High,Confirmed]

 16:21 <arosales> zul,  ^

 16:21 <arosales> looks confirmed

 16:21 <arosales> but not certain what the current status is for Saucy

 16:21 <arosales> actually needs an owner

 16:22 <arosales> zul, would that be something you can look into?

 16:22 <zul> arosales:  erm...yeah

 16:23 <arosales> zul, feel free to pass or reassign if necessary. Just thought it should have an owner with the tags and priority on the bug.

 16:23 <arosales> zul, thanks

 16:23 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nova/+bug/1199791

 16:23 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1199791 in nova (Ubuntu Saucy) "nova-compute-xcp misses nova-compute.conf" [High,Triaged]

 16:23 <arosales> next one is yours too zul.

 16:23 <zul> arosales:  need to do that

 16:23 <arosales> zul thanks

 16:24 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/1206872

 16:24 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba fails to unpack (behavior change in patch) and ftbfs on aarch64" [High,Confirmed]

 16:24 <arosales> samba

 16:24 * zul whistles

 16:24 <jamespage> that needs a merge from debian

 16:25 <jamespage> any volunteers?

 16:25 <jamespage> I'd leave the aarch64 updates for the reporter :-)

 16:25 <arosales> rbasak, your sharpening your debian skills right

 16:25 <arosales> :-)

 16:25 <rbasak> I'd love to do it, but I'm concerned that I have too much on my todo list right now, and won't get round to it.

 16:26 <jamespage> OK - I'll stick it on my list for this week - I've done it a few times now

 16:26 <jamespage> that should keep the overheads down

 16:26 <arosales> jamespage, thanks

 16:26 <jamespage> if I disappear for any reason someone else can pick it up

 16:26 <arosales> jamespage, sounds good

 16:27 <zul> jamespage:  just stick your todo list somewhere before you go

 16:27 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1208455

 16:27 <jamespage> zul, ok

 16:27 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1208455 in linux (Ubuntu Saucy) "general protection fault running apt-get inside double nested kvm VM" [High,In progress]

 16:27 <arosales> no owner for saucy

 16:27 <arosales> hallyn_, any suggestions ^

 16:27 <hallyn_> arosales: it's a kernel bug, i'd expect jsalisbury or smb would be interested int aking it

 16:28 <smb> I think we were sort of waiting for james hunt

 16:28 <smb> Now that 3.11 hit the archive he may test with all 3 on 3.11

 16:29 <arosales> smb, thnks, sounds like it is still moving

 16:29 <hallyn_> arosales: i generally find those bugs don't need an owner next to them for kernel team to watch them closely, fwiw

 16:29 * arosales will finish up the medium bugs and then we can move on. Just wanted to step through the bugs as we approach FF.

 16:29 <arosales> hallyn_, ack thanks

 16:29 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-quantumclient/+bug/1170849

 16:29 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1170849 in python-quantumclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "Cliff 1.3.2 is not available " [Medium,Triaged]

 16:30 <arosales> looks like adam_g commented here

 16:30 <arosales> troubles reproducing, awaiting reporter feedback

 16:30 <arosales> hmm

 16:30 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openvswitch/+bug/1189408

 16:30 <jamespage> its a trunk testing PPA bug - marked invalid

 16:30 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1189408 in openvswitch (Ubuntu) "1.10 FTBFS on powerpc (lacp test failure)" [Medium,New]

 16:31 <arosales> I thought powerpc was gonig away

 16:31 <jamespage> arosales, thats non critical - I took the saucy task off just now

 16:31 <hallyn_> i think it's coming back :)

 16:31 <arosales> jamespage, thanks on both bugs

 16:31 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-5.5/+bug/1203828

 16:31 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1203828 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Saucy) "mysql 5.5.32, 5.1.70 security update tracking bug" [Medium,Confirmed]

 16:32 <arosales> do these get picked up auto-magically or do we need some one to manually intervene for Saucy?

 16:32 * arosales wonder if the security team picks these up. . .  .

 16:32 <jamespage> they do

 16:32 <rbasak> I think so. They just fall into our triage list.

 16:32 <arosales> ack

 16:32 <arosales> that closes out the medium or >

 16:33 <arosales> thanks for stepping through that :-)

 16:33 <arosales> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:33 <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html

 16:33 <arosales> burndown looks crazy

 16:34 <arosales> overall we are in the red :-/

 16:34 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-charmhelper2 needs some attention with marco returns

 16:34 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms-ha-v2

 16:34 <jamespage> alot of that is in progress or done

 16:34 * arosales hitting red BPs

 16:34 <arosales> jamespage, thanks

 16:34 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-hypervisor

 16:35 <arosales> 0%

 16:35 <arosales> zul, ^

 16:35 <zul> gah i need to update that

 16:35 <arosales> zul ok thanks

 16:35 <hallyn_> arosales: remind me, are these things being measured against completion in august, or in october?

 16:36 <arosales> hallyn_, October

 16:36 <hallyn_> ok

 16:36 <arosales> at least that is what the series goal is set to

 16:36 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-hypervisor

 16:36 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-ceph

 16:36 <arosales> sorry wrong paste

 16:37 <arosales> jamespage, looks like cep is on track for August

 16:37 <jamespage> arosales, looking OK

 16:37 <jamespage> dumping rc in saucy

 16:37 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-webscale ok too?

 16:37 <jamespage> that sounds odd

 16:37 <jamespage> arosales, no

 16:37 <arosales> ya got a couple blocked

 16:37 <arosales> sorry nginx is blocked

 16:37 <jamespage> arosales, thats to late now

 16:38 <jamespage> arosales, I'm going to cancel that entire blueprint

 16:38 <arosales> jamespage, wan to postpone the rest of the work items?

 16:38 <arosales> or still a bit too early for that?

 16:38 <jamespage> its kicked around for two cycles now so can't be that important

 16:38 <jamespage> utlemming, are you likely to find time to work on the webscale WI for nginx?

 16:39 <arosales> utlemming, also got some work items out for you in cloud-init in https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-cloud-init

 16:39 <utlemming> jamepage: not for webscale

 16:39 <jamespage> utlemming, guessed so

 16:39 <jamespage> arosales, I've deferred that entire blueprint

 16:39 <arosales> jamespage, perhaps we can find some more cycles outside of server to do some more "web scale" packaging. I know it would be a plus to get more packages charms use into the archive

 16:39 <utlemming> jamepages: for the ci work, I have done some stuff

 16:40 <utlemming> jamespage: I just need to update that

 16:40 <arosales> utlemming, when you have an opp could you also update the cloud init BP?

 16:40 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-qa

 16:40 <utlemming> arosales: sure thing

 16:40 <arosales> utlemming, thanks

 16:40 <arosales> zul, looks to be in progress

 16:40 <arosales> got a few TODOs there though still

 16:41 <arosales> Daviey, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-interlock

 16:41 <arosales> jamespage, mongo looking ok

 16:41 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-mongodb

 16:42 <jamespage> arosales, ok-ish

 16:42 <jamespage> the MIR is proving challenging tbh

 16:42 <arosales> ya, you fought a pretty good battle around the licensing though

 16:42 <arosales> thanks for your work there.

 16:42 <jamespage> arosales, that should be sorted by 5th sept

 16:42 <arosales> simplestreams, probably need to wait for smoser on that

 16:42 <jamespage> upstream are also engaging on the MIR stuff as well re security team concerns

 16:43 <arosales> jamespage, good to hear

 16:43 <arosales> ah good to know

 16:43 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-contributor-onramp needs an update by jcastro

 16:43 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-charm-testing needs an update by marco when he returns

 16:43 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms

 16:44 <jamespage> we should DONE quite a few this week on the openstack-charms work

 16:44 <jamespage> redux is going nicely

 16:44 <jamespage> then we can get on with feature work

 16:44 <arosales> ah, nice

 16:44 <arosales> hallyn_, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-virtstack

 16:45 <arosales> looks to be progressing . . .

 16:45 <hallyn_> some thigns will surely be postponed yet

 16:45 <arosales> ok

 16:45 <arosales> nick needs to upate https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-docs when he returns

 16:45 <hallyn_> but i don't want to count anything out that i haven't already markdd so

 16:45 <arosales> thanks for keeping it updated hallyn_

 16:45 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-cloud-archive has progress too

 16:45 <hallyn_> np (did it 3 mins ago :)

 16:46 <arosales> hallyn_, ha saw it coming :-)

 16:46 <arosales> smart man

 16:46 <arosales> utlemming, could you udpate https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-cloud-vagrant

 16:46 <arosales> ok so hopefully as openstack charms get done a lot more will come out of red

 16:47 <arosales> and with updates

 16:47 <utlemming> arosales: ack, doing that now

 16:47 <arosales> utlemming, thanks

 16:47 <arosales> moving on

 16:47 <arosales> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:47 <arosales> vUDS coming up at the end of August

 16:47 <arosales> http://uds.ubuntu.com/

 16:47 <arosales> #link http://uds.ubuntu.com/

 16:47 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)

 16:48 <plars> redirect -> psivaa

 16:48 <psivaa> no updates from QA though

 16:48 <arosales> plars, psivaa thanks

 16:48 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:48 <smb> In order to prepare for uploading Xen 4.3 I started to upload packages

 16:48 <smb> that rdepend on xen stuff to my ppa. Most of them looked ok. I still

 16:48 <smb> would have to check nova. Is anybody doing actually using xen from

 16:48 <smb> openstack who could easily test things?

 16:48 <smb> The bigger problem seems to be xen-api / xen-api-libs which add a

 16:48 <smb> dependency to blktap-dev which include libblktapctl.

 16:48 <smb> Unfortunately Xen also has a lib of the same name (maybe the same

 16:48 <smb> but older source?) which I had to package (or at least thought) into

 16:48 <smb> libxen because otherwise libvirt would not be able to build the libxl

 16:48 <smb> driver. Not sure which way to go there right now. Anybody knows whom

 16:48 <smb> of the Citrix guys would be to contact. Still Mike?

 16:49 <arosales> hallyn_, any opinions ^

 16:49 <jamespage> smb, mike is still good for contact point I think

 16:49 <hallyn_> arosales: no, i always defer on xen to zul and smb

 16:50 <arosales> zul any time to test xen on nova?

 16:50 <arosales> or just contacts for smb?

 16:50 <arosales> Daviey, ^

 16:50 <smb> zul, Or is that maybe also the xen-api guys?

 16:51 <hallyn_> on friday i should be able to test xen on nova, fwiw, but i don't know about the citrix guys

 16:51 <hallyn_> (and i'll have to wipe my lxc on nova setup to do it :)

 16:52 <arosales> hallyn_, thanks, could you coordinate with smb and zul

 16:52 <smb> hallyn_, Ok, maybe I have a solution for the xen-api problem by then. Maybe ping me before you go

 16:52 <arosales> #action hallyn_ to coordinate with zul and smb on testing xen 4.3 on nova

 16:52 * meetingology hallyn_ to coordinate with zul and smb on testing xen 4.3 on nova

 16:52 <hallyn_> smb: yup

 16:52 <arosales> hallyn_, thanks

 16:52 <arosales> smb, any other topics?

 16:52 <zul> arosales:   not til the end of the month

 16:53 <arosales> zul, ack. Please pass on any contacts that may be helpful to smb or hallyn_

 16:53 * zul is still stuck in the middle of nowhere

 16:53 <zul> arosales: ack

 16:53 <arosales> smb, I'll proceed since time is running short please feel free to interject if you had other topics.

 16:53 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:54 <rbasak> We have highbank buildds! Build speeds for armhf should be much improved now.

 16:54 <rbasak> https://launchpad.net/builders if you'd like to gaze at the small army of them.

 16:55 <rbasak> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2013-August/037564.html for Colin's announcement.

 16:55 <arosales> rbasak, good stuff

 16:55 <rbasak> Nothing else to report. Any questions for me?

 16:55 <arosales> rbasak, thanks for the update

 16:55 <arosales> #topic Open Discussion

 16:56 <arosales> I forgot to mention there will be a charm school this Friday

 16:57 <arosales> #topic Open Discussion

 16:57 <arosales> sorry wrong past

 16:57 <arosales> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:57 <arosales> NEXT MEETING: Tuesday 2013-08-20 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

 16:57 <arosales> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
</pre>
