{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** rharper collect team thoughts on whether we should have something like numad and other NUMA related placement stuff
* Wily Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting: =====

* rharper collect team thoughts on whether we should have something like numad and other NUMA related  placement stuff

===== Wily Development =====

We are in final beta freeze for Wily.

===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====

nothing to report

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) =====

nothing to report

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====

caribou arges smb apw to coordinate on bug 1496317 (crashkernel 128M), and/or ensure rls notes reflect workaround.

===== Upcoming Call For Papers =====

nothing to report

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

OpenStack Developer Summit (Tokyo) coming up, several people attending.

===== Open Discussion =====

Wily default install dropping python2, need to be explicit with that as a dependency if/where needed.

===== Meeting Actions =====

* smoser and beisner to coordinate on bug 1488453 (hacluster failing V/W)

* caribou arges smb apw to coordinate on bug 1496317 (crashkernel 128M), and/or ensure rls notes reflect workaround.

Carried forward:

* rharper collect team thoughts on whether we should have something like numad and other NUMA related  placement stuff

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

gaughen to chair on Tuesday 29th September 16:00 UTC to 17:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:00 <beisner> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep 22 16:00:47 2015 UTC.  The chair is beisner. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 16:00 <meetingology> 
 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
 16:00 <beisner> greetings, everyone
 16:00 <smoser> o/
 16:01 <beisner> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
 16:01 <beisner> * rharper collect team thoughts on whether we should have something like numad and other NUMA related placement stuff
 16:01 <beisner> update, discussion re: the 1 action item from last wk? ^
 16:02 <arges> numad | 0.5+20150602-2 | wily/universe | source, amd64, arm64, armhf, i386, powerpc, ppc64el
 16:03 <arges> numatop | 1.0.3-0ubuntu1 | wily/universe | source, amd64, i386
 16:03 <arges> what other numa packages are needed?
 16:03 * hallyn has a feeling rharper is not around
 16:03 <beisner> yeah i'm not up to speed on that one.  rharper smoser ?
 16:04 <beisner> 321..  we can circle back when rharper arrives
 16:04 <beisner> #topic Wily Development
 16:04 <beisner> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
 16:04 <smoser> yeah, no status thre. we'llw ait more on rharper next trime
 16:04 <smoser> but he is not here.
 16:04 <beisner> we are in final beta freeze
 16:05 <beisner> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
 16:06 <beisner> do we need assignees for the triaged + confirmed bugs there?
 16:06 <smoser> looking
 16:07 <beisner> i'd also like to query for status/eta on bug 1488453
 16:07 <ubottu> bug 1488453 in openhpi (Ubuntu) "Package postinst always fail on first install when using systemd" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1488453
 16:07 <smoser> woudl be good to look at the cve one, but it is old.
 16:07 <smoser> that one is assigned to me. you are bothered by it, beisner  ?
 16:08 <beisner> my bug 1479661 is a dup of that -- net effect is that hacluster isn't deployable to vivid or wily.
 16:08 <ubottu> bug 1488453 in openhpi (Ubuntu) "duplicate for #1479661 Package postinst always fail on first install when using systemd" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1488453
 16:09 <smoser> beisner, i'll take a look
 16:09 <smoser> feel free to bother me
 16:09 <beisner> smoser, cool thanks.  bothered  ;-)
 16:10 <beisner> any other general bug discussion?
 16:10 <beisner> if not, moving on
 16:10 <beisner> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
 16:11 <caribou> nothing to mention, sir
 16:11 <beisner> thanks caribou
 16:11 <beisner> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
 16:11 <matsubara> Hi beisner, nothing to report.
 16:11 <beisner> hi matsubara - ok cool.  thank you
 16:11 <beisner> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
 16:12 <smb> I got nothing to report from our side. Are there any questions/requests from your side?
 16:12 <beisner> smb autobot polls the audience
 16:12 <caribou> smb: I got one
 16:12 <smb> yup?
 16:12 <caribou> smb: the kernel dump currently fails with crashkernel=128M
 16:12 <caribou> smb: looks like a initramfs size issue
 16:13 <smb> yeah, I think you were discussing with apw about that.
 16:13 <caribou> yes, but didn't get anywhere yet. Any chance we can address this before release ?
 16:13 <arges> caribou: is there a bug filed? : )
 16:13 <caribou> arges: yes looking for it atm
 16:14 <arges> i remember we changed the size at some point, or were thikning about it
 16:14 <caribou> bug #1496317
 16:14 <ubottu> bug 1496317 in kexec-tools (Ubuntu) "kexec fails with OOM killer with the current crashkernel=128 value" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1496317
 16:14 <caribou> changing MODULES=dep in initramfs.conf works around the issue
 16:14 <caribou> brings the size of the initramfs from 29M to 12M
 16:14 <apw> smb, i think we should consider making an =dep initrd as well when kdump is installed
 16:14 <smb> Beside of increasing the reserverd mem again, the change for only building required modules into initramfs might be a bit late... Wasn't the question about whether this could be made as a part of kdump's postinst
 16:15 <arges> could that break things for people that need modules to boot and use kdump?
 16:15 <arges> need the modules that may be dropped by change from most to dep
 16:15 <smb> arges, only if the swap hw
 16:15 <apw> in theory not as they should have everything that they have loaded
 16:16 <caribou> we can fix that after release, it's not _that_ critical
 16:16 <apw> given all we do in there is mount / and copy the dump and then reboot
 16:16 <apw> but ... how to trigger the maintenance of _both_ sizes not so easy
 16:17 <caribou> apw: better to fix that after release then?
 16:17 <arges> yea so a cold boot would also need most ,but after kexec'ing we could have something more minimal.  What about bumping 128M?
 16:17 <apw> caribou, its a change i dont know the magnitude of for sure
 16:18 <caribou> apw: then let's hold on to it, since there is a known workaround
 16:18 <caribou> apw: maybe document it in the release notes
 16:19 <arges> i think that's reasonable
 16:19 <caribou> apw: better to find a secure option for LTS
 16:20 <smb> caribou, I guess one of those but nothing to be decided in the scope of the meeting
 16:20 <caribou> arges: ok good for me
 16:20 <beisner> interesting.  ok so, an action to coordinate on the bug & rls note bits.
 16:20 <smb> Best way is to bother us one of there days again
 16:20 <beisner> #action caribou arges smb apw to coordinate on bug 1496317 (crashkernel 128M), and/or ensure rls notes reflect workaround.
 16:20 * meetingology caribou arges smb apw to coordinate on bug 1496317 (crashkernel 128M), and/or ensure rls notes reflect workaround.
 16:20 <caribou> beisner: you can action me on this one
 16:20 <ubottu> bug 1496317 in kexec-tools (Ubuntu) "kexec fails with OOM killer with the current crashkernel=128 value" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1496317
 16:20 <beisner> and a belated action from prev topic...
 16:20 <beisner> #action smoser and beisner to coordinate on bug 1488453 (hacluster failing V/W)
 16:20 * meetingology smoser and beisner to coordinate on bug 1488453 (hacluster failing V/W)
 16:20 <ubottu> bug 1488453 in openhpi (Ubuntu) "Package postinst always fail on first install when using systemd" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1488453
 16:20 <apw> caribou, i suspect a kdump specific hook for the kernel postinst which uses like /boot/kdump/ to maek skiny ones
 16:21 <caribou> apw: will look into that
 16:21 <apw> caribou, sounds good
 16:21 <arges> need crashkernel=auto
 16:22 <beisner> thanks.  anything else for the kernel team?
 16:22 <beisner> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
 16:23 <beisner> proposals, anyone?
 16:23 <beisner> which really leads to:
 16:23 <beisner> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
 16:23 <beisner> events, anyone?
 16:24 <beisner> openstack developer summit tokyo is in ~1mo.   several people will be there representing various interests.
 16:24 <beisner> #topic Open Discussion
 16:24 <beisner> shall we mention the python 2 wily thing?
 16:25 <beisner> i imagine that will be impactful to many juju charms, and other non-juju use cases.
 16:25 <beisner> openstack charms have workarounds in-flight in the dev/next branches.
 16:26 <beisner> smoser, other thoughts and/or summary of the status and happenings on that?
 16:27 <smoser> sure.
 16:27 <smoser> python2 is gone from default ubuntu server installs
 16:28 <smoser> that includes maas installs, server ISO installs and cloud images
 16:28 <smoser> you can very easily 'apt-get install python2' or any application that correctly depends on python2
 16:28 <beisner> ^ >= Wily, right?
 16:28 <smoser> correct.
 16:28 <beisner> thanks smoser
 16:29 <smoser> you'll see issues if you assumed /usr/bin/python
 16:29 <smoser> and further issues if you assumed 'import <something>' would work with that /usr/bin/python
 16:29 <smoser> this is a knonwn problem at this point with many charms and maas
 16:30 <smoser> (maas uses ephemeral images and assumes it can invoke /usr/bin/python)
 16:30 <smoser> so...
 16:30 <smoser> your opeiotns to address such thigns:
 16:30 <smoser> a.) use python3
 16:30 <smoser> b.) install python2
 16:30 <smoser> c.) use some sort of 'python2or3'
 16:31 <smoser> i started https://gist.github.com/smoser/8904199bb8f00a90dd04
 16:31 <smoser> which has just about no doc, and woudl only be very useful if it were installed in ubuntu images
 16:31 <smoser> but the idea woudl be that instead of '#!/usr/bin/python' or '#!/usr/bin/env python'
 16:31 <smoser> you could:
 16:31 <smoser> #!/usr/bin/env py2or3 -myaml
 16:32 <smoser> and this would select a python2 or 3 that had yaml available
 16:32 <smoser> not yet implemented is the -I2 or -I3 flags that would then cause install if nothing was found suitable
 16:33 <smoser> that would allow you do do:
 16:33 <smoser> #!/usr/bin/env py2or3 -myaml -I3
 16:33 <smoser> and if you had executed that as root, you'd not know anything other than your program ran as you expected (just a bit slow with 'apt-get install' in the middle)
 16:34 <smoser> anyway, thats what i have for that topic.
 16:34 <beisner> great, thanks smoser
 16:34 <smoser> thanks for raising that, beisner . i'm sure it will cause fun for people in the next months.
 16:34 <beisner> alright, so:  assume not.  define and install dependencies accordingly.   and/or follow the gist and consider it as an option.
 16:35 <beisner> i'm sure we'll be tracking that closely, thx again smoser
 16:35 <beisner> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
 16:35 <beisner> same time same day same channel,  gaughen will be your host.
 16:35 <beisner> thank you all, have a great day!
 16:35 * gaughen crosses fingers!
 16:35 <gaughen> thanks beisner!
 16:35 <beisner> #endmeeting
</pre>
