{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Server FAQ =====

sommer started to update questions on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerFaq|ServerFaq]]</nowiki> page. Questions that need to be updated are marked.

ACTION: mathiaz to add a section about updating the ServerFAQ to the Roadmap

ACTION: kirkland to review the RAID related questions

===== Get rid of old libdb versions =====

Work started to get rid of old libdb version during the Hardy release cycle. The list of packages needed a review needs to be updated in the Roadmap.

ACTION: zul to update the list of packages depending on libdb

===== Add augeas lenses =====

nxvl reported that lenses have been written during the last cycle. Upstream is still active. The state of lenses are tracked on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuCentralizedServiceAdministrator/Augeas|a wiki page]]</nowiki>. He plans to write more lenses during this release cycle.

===== Update ServerGuide for Jaunty =====

sommer started to gather ideas about the updates to make to the Ubuntu Server Guide for Jaunty. All the ideas will be tracked in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyServerGuide|a specification]]</nowiki>.

ACTION: sommer to create a spec for the ServerGuide update in Jaunty

===== Merges and init script =====

mathiaz reminded that the archive is opened and merging is the main focus of the developers for now. kirkland added that checking if init scripts have a status action is welcome. If not adding one would be appreciated - steps to do so are outline on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InitScriptStatusActions|InitScriptsStatusActions wiki page]]</nowiki>. A lot of packages have already been updated during the intrepid release cycle. More work is needed though.

ACTION: kirkland to update the init status action wiki page

===== Ubuntu Server survey =====

nijaba reminded everyone that the <nowiki>[[http://survey.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Server survey]]</nowiki> will close next Friday, November, the 14th. So far 6777 responses have been gathered (4105 full responses, 2672 responses not completely filled out).

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, November 18th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:02. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:03] <mathiaz> Today extermely important agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:04] <mathiaz> last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20081104
[16:04] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Server FAQ
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server FAQ
[16:04] <mathiaz> nijaba: sommer: ??
[16:04] <sommer> mathiaz: I made some updates last night, but there's a few left
[16:04] <nijaba> mathiaz: I have not been able to work on this during the past week
[16:05] <mathiaz> sommer: great.
[16:05] <mathiaz> I haven't update the roadmap
[16:05] <mathiaz> I'll do that later today.
[16:06] <mathiaz> kirkland: did you get a chance to review the RAID section?
[16:06] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to add a section about updating the ServerFAQ to the Roadmap
[16:06] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to add a section about updating the ServerFAQ to the Roadmap
[16:06] <kirkland> mathiaz: i did about a month ago, with sommer
[16:06] <mathiaz> kirkland: hm - I'm refering to the Server FAQ
[16:06] <kirkland> mathiaz: oh, the ServerFAQ ... no
[16:07] <kirkland> mathiaz: busy week, sprinting, etc.
[16:07] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to review the RAID related questions
[16:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to review the RAID related questions
[16:07] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok
[16:07] <mathiaz> sommer: how many questions are left to be reviewed?
[16:07] <sommer> mathiaz: maybe 3-4, and then add the new ones... so maybe 8 totoal
[16:07] <sommer> or there abouts
[16:08] <mathiaz> ok - are these questions marked somehow to be reviewed?
[16:08] <nijaba> mathiaz: yes, I marked them up
[16:09] <mathiaz> ok
[16:09] <mathiaz> anything else on the Server FAQ subject?
[16:09] <sommer> don't think so
[16:10] <mathiaz> ok - that's all from last week minutes.
[16:10] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Get rid of old libdb versions
[16:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Get rid of old libdb versions
[16:11] <mathiaz> ScottK started to look into that task during hardy.
[16:11] <mathiaz> It seems that there is still some work to be done, but the list of packages to be updated needs to be updated firs.t
[16:13] <mathiaz> zul: do you know the status of this migration^^?
[16:14] <zul> mathiaz:I think most of them are done already openldap is a different case
[16:15] <mathiaz> zul: correct - openldap is trickier. I'll look into that issue once I update openldap to 2.4.12.
[16:15] <zul> the list definently needs to be updated though
[16:15] <mathiaz> zul: could you go over the list of packages in the roadmap and update it?
[16:16] <zul> mathiaz: yep
[16:16] <mathiaz> [ACTION] zul to update the list of packages depending on libdb.
[16:16] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to update the list of packages depending on libdb.
[16:17] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Add augeas lenses
[16:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Add augeas lenses
[16:17] <mathiaz> nxvl: ^^?
[16:18] <nxvl> \o/
[16:18] <nxvl> ok
[16:18] <nxvl> we have come to a good state of the lenses
[16:18] <nxvl> we have a bunch, raphink has been closely working with upstream for this
[16:18] <nxvl> also upstream is going very well
[16:19] <nxvl> this summer (south american here!) i will have planty of time for doing that
[16:19] <nxvl> so i hope to have the whole set of needed lenses for feature freeze
[16:19] <nxvl> and as always help is really welcomed
[16:19] <mathiaz> nxvl: is the list of lenses to create up-to-date on the wiki page?
[16:19] <nxvl> is not hard to write those
[16:19] <nxvl> yep
[16:19] <nxvl> let me grab the link
[16:20] <nxvl> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuCentralizedServiceAdministrator/Augeas
[16:20] <nxvl> actually the tracking of the upstream lenses list is being done by me on tha wiki page AFAIR
[16:20] <mathiaz> ok - so work to create more lenses will continue during this release cycle
[16:20] <nxvl> i updates that 2 weeks ago and there are no new lenses that i'm aware of
[16:20] <nxvl> mathiaz: yes
[16:21] <mathiaz> nxvl: great. Thanks for tracking this task!
[16:21] <nxvl> mathiaz: an hopefully finished soon
[16:21] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Update ServerGuide for Jaunty
[16:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Update ServerGuide for Jaunty
[16:21] <mathiaz> sommer: I've updated the roadmap with a link to a spec
[16:21] <mathiaz> sommer: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyServerGuide
[16:22] <mathiaz> sommer: however that wiki page ^^ doesn't exist yet
[16:22] <sommer> mathiaz: cool, I can create that based on some things that didn't get into the Intrepid guide
[16:22] <mathiaz> sommer: do you have ideas/plans for the Server Guide in Jaunty?
[16:22] <sommer> mathiaz: a few, and I think there are more in the server team idea pool page
[16:23] <mathiaz> sommer: great - could you start to move them to the wiki page?
[16:23] <sommer> mathiaz: sure will do
[16:23] <mathiaz> sommer: so that we can get an overview for the work to be done for Jaunty
[16:23] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to create a spec for the ServerGuide update in Jaunty
[16:23] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to create a spec for the ServerGuide update in Jaunty
[16:23] <kwwii> erm
[16:23] <kwwii> sorry
[16:24] <mathiaz> sommer: any news on when the server guide for 8.10 will be put on help.u.c ?
[16:25] <sommer> mathiaz: not entirely sure, but I think mdke replied to a bug saying that the files were ready and waiting to be moved to the live server
[16:25] <mathiaz> sommer: ok.
[16:25] <mathiaz> anything else related to the server guide in Jaunty?
[16:26] <sommer> I think that's all
[16:26] <mathiaz> ok.
[16:26] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Merges
[16:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Merges
[16:26] <mathiaz> As you may have noticed, the archive is open for jaunty
[16:27] <mathiaz> so it's mergin time again
[16:27] <mathiaz> I'll prepare a list of "easy" merges again
[16:28] <mathiaz> as usual follow the Merging guidelines
[16:28] <mathiaz> outlined on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging
[16:29] <mathiaz> well - that's all I have on the Roadmap
[16:29] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:30] <mathiaz> anyone wants to add anything related to items on the Roadmap?
[16:30] <kirkland> when doing merges, perhaps check if the package has an init script, see if it has a status action ;-)
[16:30] <kirkland> and add one during the merge, if it doesn't ;-)
[16:30] <mathiaz> if not - just ping kirkland - he will be glad to add one for you ;)
[16:31] <mathiaz> kirkland: what's the wiki page used to track the status action?
[16:32] <mathiaz> kirkland: IIRC there are some intructions there on how to add a status action to init scripts
[16:32] <nxvl> i think kirkland had a wiki page were it was explained how to add one
[16:32] <kirkland> mathiaz: that page needs an update for Jaunty
[16:32] <nxvl> and it's really easy AFAIR
[16:32] <kirkland> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InitScriptStatusActions
[16:32] <kirkland> you can also run: "service --status-all" on your system
[16:33] <kirkland> and see what init scripts are missing status actions
[16:33] <mathiaz> kirkland: what needs to be updated?
[16:33] <mathiaz> kirkland: the list of packages?
[16:33] <zul> kirkland: is it just for packages in main that you are going to do the init script stuff or for universe as well?
[16:33] <kirkland> mathiaz: i need to crossref that wiki page, and ensure it's accurate for Jaunty
[16:34] <kirkland> zul: both;  main with more emphasis, I'd think
[16:34] <zul> kirkland: ok
[16:34] <kirkland> zul: but i'm happy to review/sponsor universe fixes myself
[16:34] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to update the init status action wiki page
[16:34] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to update the init status action wiki page
[16:35] <mathiaz> kirkland: I think packages marked as FIXED can be removed from the wiki page
[16:35] <kirkland> mathiaz: okay
[16:35] <kirkland> mathiaz: actually, it helps point to other scripts that you can emulate
[16:36] <mathiaz> kirkland: good point. May be moving them a different section then
[16:36] <mathiaz> kirkland: like - some examples:
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: sounds good!
[16:36] <mathiaz> kirkland: thanks for keeping track of this!
[16:37] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:37] <mathiaz> something new and interesting to say?
[16:37] <nijaba> yes, the surver survey is closing on the 15th
[16:38] <nijaba> if anyone want to blog about last chance to take the survey, feel free
[16:38] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm running with my entire home directory encrypted, using the same code used for Encrypted ~/Private
[16:38] <kirkland> mathiaz: :-)
[16:38] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm working on the bootstrapping to get this working in Jaunty
[16:38] <mathiaz> the survey url is: http://survey.ubuntu.com/
[16:39] <mathiaz> kirkland: awesome.
[16:39] <mathiaz> kirkland: do you have a spec written for?
[16:43] <nealmcb1> nijaba: how many responses on the survey now?
[16:43] <mathiaz> allright - anything else?
[16:43] <nijaba> mathiaz: about 4000+
[16:43] <mathiaz> nealmcb1: ^^
[16:43] <nealmcb1> cool
[16:45] <mathiaz> allright - time to wrap up I guess
[16:45] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time.
[16:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time.
[16:45] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place?
[16:46] <nijaba> nealmcb1: 6777 responses for this survey (4105 full responses, 2672 responses not completely filled out)  to be precise
[16:46] <kirkland> o/
[16:46] <zul> nijaba: neat
[16:46]  * nijaba may not be available next week, but will try his best
=== nealmcb1 is now known as nealmcb
[16:48] <mathiaz> ok - great then.
[16:48] <mathiaz> See you all next week, same place, same time
[16:48] <mathiaz> and happy mergin' till then!
[16:48] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[16:48] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:48.
</pre>
