{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
<pre>
10:06	mdz	cjwatson,Keybuk: let me know when everyone is accounted for
10:06	Keybuk	mdz: everyone on my team is here
10:06	rtg	cjwatson: pong
10:07	doko	pong
10:07	cjwatson	mdz: check
10:07	mdz	ok, welcome all
10:07	mdz	are all the summaries in as well?
10:08	Keybuk	a few tardies, but yes
10:08	mdz	I've added a bit to the calendar to remind us to send the reminder early
10:08	cjwatson	all my summaries were on time
10:09	mdz	any new agenda items?
10:09	asac	i want to update my agenda item
10:09	asac	its meant to be more general and not mozilla team specific
10:09	ogra	a reminder reminder ?
10:09	heno	I can just add a quick report from the LP meeting
10:09	asac	update wiki or post updated version here?
10:09	mdz	asac: go ahead and change the wiki
10:09	asac	thx
10:09	mvo	if we have time, maybe we can consider taking about https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2007-March/000414.html (but only if we have time)
10:09	mdz	heno: oh, yes please.  can we make that a regular item each week?
10:09	Keybuk	mdz: I've moved my reminder up a bit
10:10	mdz	mvo: sure, add to the wiki
10:10	cjwatson	asac: your agenda item has an easy answer, but I left it there because I wanted to publicise that answer for more general use
10:10	heno	I brought up the beta performance issues today, which they are now looking at
10:10	heno	mdz: sure, good idea
10:10	heno	I'll use email next time
10:10	mdz	ok, let's dive in.
10:10	mdz	(fabbione) Improving hw certification test coverage
10:10	fabbione	yeps
10:10	asac	cjwatson: it should be not that easy anymore :)
10:10	mdz	fabbione: this was on the mailing list as well, no?
10:10	fabbione	i did send a mail to distro-team
10:10	fabbione	yes
10:10	fabbione	but received only one reply so fat
10:10	fabbione	far
10:11	mdz	fabbione: the last time I talked about this with jbailey, my understanding was that there wasn't enough bandwidth in certification to perform more than basic tests
10:11	fabbione	so this is an encouragment to at least let me know what's the status of your implementations
10:11	cjwatson	asac: with regard to your previous item, the answer as I understood it was http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures
10:11	mdz	this was when I was asking for help with different installer test cases, e.g.
10:11	pitti	still, even if these cannot be implemented right now, I think it makes sense to keep them in the specs for later manual verification
10:11	fabbione	mdz: probably not for feisty, but we can start as much as we can
10:11	cjwatson	which is something I'd like to encourage people to add to in general
10:12	mdz	cjwatson: hmm, is DebuggingProcedures not on UbuntuDevelopment yet?
10:12	fabbione	mdz: also because automation requires implementation and having an overview ASAP it's better
10:12	asac	cjwatson: ah ok
10:12	pitti	it also makes reviewing old specs much easier in later releases
10:12	fabbione	that will let certification team more time to develop their test cases
10:12	cjwatson	asac: though I guess workflow is slightly different from debugging procedures
10:12	heno	I'll be looking at restructuring those pages btw
10:12	mdz	fabbione: I think it's a fine idea for them to participate in feature testing, but I wouldn't want us to spend time defining tests if they won't be carried out
10:12	cjwatson	er bug handling procedures
10:12	heno	with a more uniform naming structure
10:12	asac	cjwatson: lets talk about that if its on topic :) right?
10:12	fabbione	mdz: the tests need to be hw specific. it's clear we are not going to ask them to test everything
10:12	cjwatson	asac: sure
10:12	heno	(more on the -devel list)
10:13	asac	;)
10:13	cjwatson	mdz: not yet, I'll add it
10:13	fabbione	mdz: but only what involves/might involve hw specific
10:13	fabbione	-ETOOMANYCONVERSATIONS
10:13	mdz	is there anything other than compiz which is high-profile and hardware-specific?
10:13	mdz	we would certainly like for them to test that
10:13	kylem	fabbione, one of the things i'd like is add the linux firmware kit to the list of tests we do for certification.
10:13	fabbione	kylem: noted.
10:13	kylem	fabbione, so we can know what's a kernel bug, and what is a BIOS bug, for things like PCI MMCONFIG, etc.
10:13	pitti	fabbione: oh, I misunderstood it as you also wanted non-hw-specific tests, i. e. verifying general features that specs implement
10:13	kylem	fabbione, thanks.
10:14	fabbione	mdz: ok.
10:14	Mithrandir	mdz: accelerated-x, network-roaming, binary-driver-education, driver-backports at least, just to pick a few of the top ones.
10:14	fabbione	pitti: eheh you are too good dude :)
10:14	doko	mdz: EMT64
10:14	fabbione	ok but we shouldn't spent too much time here in the meeting... please developers review your spec if they can affect hw (or viceversa) and let me know asap
10:14	pitti	fabbione: well, as I said, having these tests written down in the specs is a good thing regardless of the guys implementing them right now :)
10:14	fabbione	pitti: fully agreed
10:15	mdz	Mithrandir: accelerated-x is compiz, network-roaming is a good one to test, as is binary-driver-education (though very coarsely)
10:15	Mithrandir	pitti: but that shouldn't be done in the last month and a half of a cycle, so while we should discuss it now, doing anything much for feisty is just not feasible.
10:15	bdmurray	kylem: where should linuxfirmware kit reports like 79226 go?
10:15	mdz	fabbione: how about for feisty+1, you review the list of targets and check for ones which could affect certification?  you can check with the people working on it if you have doubts
10:15	pitti	Mithrandir: well, it does make sense to write down the tests when the spec is actually implemented
10:15	fabbione	Mithrandir: we might still be able to test some stuff...
10:16	kylem	bdmurray, woah. wtf.
10:16	fabbione	mdz: for feisty+1 i want a settled entry in the specs..
10:16	kylem	bdmurray, reject it... why would that be in launchpad?
10:16	fabbione	mdz: but yes..
10:16	fabbione	i still think it's important we try to test feisty too
10:16	fabbione	if we can good.. if we can't... well same as now
10:16	mdz	ok
10:17	mdz	fabbione: is that sufficient for this meeting?
10:17	fabbione	mdz: yes. i just would like people to send me the info i asked asap if they are not too overloaded
10:17	fabbione	otherwise i am all good
10:18	mdz	fabbione: probably the best would be to confirm with each developer whether they've reviewed, then you know when everyone has input
10:19	mdz	otherwise you don't know whether you've received all broadcast responses
10:19	mdz	but right, moving on
10:19	fabbione	mdz: ok
10:19	mdz	(pitti) [WWW]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/67925 (which translations/input support do we want to ship on CDs): it basically boils down to 'ship Chinese with complete input support vs. don't ship Chinese at all, and two dozen of other translations'. Does anyone know a good and objective data source about Ubuntu popularity that can help us decide?
10:19	Ubugtu	Malone bug 67925 in Ubuntu "Do not ship translations without matching input support" [High,In progress]
10:19	mdz	pitti: I put this question to Canonical bus. dev. in January
10:19	mdz	however, I didn't take into account the tradeoffs available between translations and input support
10:19	pitti	ah, good idea, they probably know better about popularity
10:20	mdz	pitti: could you send me a table of the cost (size) for each language?
10:20	pitti	mdz: the bug has the options with rough numbers
10:20	mdz	pitti: beta is slow for me
10:21	pitti	for everyone :(
10:21	mdz	pitti: does it also have the amount of space available to spend?
10:21	mdz	(approximate)
10:21	pitti	I hope this is due to beta running on a slower server and not due to general code slowness
10:21	mdz	ok, it's loaded
10:21	pitti	mdz: no, since this drastically changed just today
10:21	heno	it's general code slowness :(
10:21	mdz	the bug  doesn't seem to have the information I'd want
10:21	heno	but they are working on it
10:21	mdz	if we're to balance the tradeoffs, I'd like to see size for each available language
10:21	pitti	mdz: ok, I'll add a comprehensive table to the bug
10:22	Mithrandir	mdz: space available to spend on the CDs?  Zero, usually.  We have to take something out to fit something else.
10:22	mdz	pitti: for languages requiring input support, it should include that
10:22	pitti	mdz: best is probably if I modify my langpacksize script to take into account input support as well
10:22	mdz	Mithrandir: we ship a certain quantity of l10n data already
10:22	mdz	pitti: yes, then we can have just one number per language
10:22	mdz	pitti: and can choose the top N for the space
10:22	pitti	ACTION: pitti to update langpack size script to include input support packages
10:22	pitti	mdz: but that wasn't really my question
10:23	mdz	ACTION: pitti to send output to mdz, mdz to pass to bizdev for ranking
10:23	Mithrandir	pitti: please tell me when you have that ready, since I want the input for release thingies.
10:23	pitti	Mithrandir: yep, will do
10:23	mdz	pitti: that will be implicit in the data; we'll get their input based on shipit, commercial activities, etc. and set priorities
10:23	pitti	ok
10:23	mdz	pitti: don't worry, I'll answer the real question :-)
10:23	pitti	mdz: that works for me, thank you
10:24	mdz	asac) do we allow teams to maintain their individual tag/state/bug policies for a subset of packages? If we do so (hopefully yes), how can we properly document and communicate this so arbitrary QA/bug team members still can contribute to bug triage for those packages.
10:24	mdz	cjwatson: you wanted to field this?
10:24	asac	yes ...
10:24	asac	my idea is a QA/Bug team page that lists teams (and what packages are associated with that team) that maintain a special bug policy
10:25	cjwatson	well, the brief answer as above was DebuggingProcedures, but initially I thought asac was talking about general triage procedures rather than specifics of team bug handling
10:25	mdz	I believe there exists such a resource in the BugSquad documentation, including DebuggingProcedures
10:25	asac	+ in the long run in launchpad: provide a link to team policy if package of current bug is maintained by a team that has a refined tag/state/bug policy
10:25	cjwatson	however, I think it does fit in reasonably well in DebuggingProcedures
10:25	mdz	bdmurray: do you know if that's in good shape?
10:25	cjwatson	I know that DebuggingUbiquity has comments on bug policy
10:25	cjwatson	mdz: this is something we talked about in the QA call yesterday
10:25	dholbach	we already have: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Tags and I started https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Teams quite some time ago
10:25	bdmurray	mdz: DebuggingProcedures is being worked on
10:26	cjwatson	I would like to encourage everyone with non-trivial-to-debug packages to write short documentation on them and link it from DebuggingProcedures (as DebuggingPackageName)
10:26	asac	anyway ... i doubt if everybody really looks at those pages regularly ... thats why i would like something in launchpad
10:26	asac	at least a disclaimer
10:26	cjwatson	asac: bug triagers do, AIUI
10:26	mdz	asac: we've asked for a per-package text field which would be displayed on the bug page
10:26	pitti	cjwatson: can we bless this as an ACTION item?
10:26	cjwatson	pitti: I don't want to have actions for the whole team, really
10:27	cjwatson	too hard to decide whether they're finished
10:27	asac	mdz: .... maybe somehow allow per-package ... as well as per-team info would help a lot
10:27	mdz	the push for this should come from QA
10:27	cjwatson	it's an ongoing thing I'd like to encourage, that's all
10:27	pitti	right, just as a reminder
10:27	mdz	if there are questions about how to handle bugs for a specific package, documentation should be provided by a developer
10:27	cjwatson	mdz: yes
10:27	mdz	but it needs to be asked for, so that we focus on the most important bits
10:27	cjwatson	I've asked Brian to establish a list of the most important items
10:27	cjwatson	which can then be filled out over time
10:28	mdz	sounds good
10:28	mdz	asac: are your questions answered?
10:28	asac	hmmm .... so how do triagers get that info
10:28	asac	?
10:28	cjwatson	new triagers are pointed to the documentation, and AIUI encouraged to re-read from time to time
10:28	mdz	asac: part of the process of joining the QA team is learning the documentation
10:29	asac	ah ... ok ... lets see how well it works when i added that info
10:29	mdz	asac: bdmurray can provide details of the process
10:29	cjwatson	yes, it would be nice to have Launchpad prompt people; that's not something we can resolve immediately, but it's on their list
10:29	bdmurray	asac: I would e-mail the bugsquad team too when that info is added
10:29	mdz	asac: in order for existing QA members to become aware of it, it would be wise to inform them of new documentation
10:29	bdmurray	so they know there is new information
10:29	asac	yep ... all clear for now :)
10:29	cjwatson	bdmurray: is the address on the wiki pages themselves?
10:29	mdz	asac: in general, bdmurray is your point of contact for communicating with them
10:29	cjwatson	bdmurray: (it should be)
10:30	bdmurray	cjwatson: "the address"?
10:30	mdz	cjwatson: we could use a section about the bugsquad/qa team on UbuntuDevelopment, especially how to interface with them
10:30	mdz	bdmurray: the contact email address for the team
10:30	bdmurray	got it
10:31	cjwatson	along with instructions
10:31	mdz	cjwatson: could you/bdmurray arrange that between you?
10:31	cjwatson	ACTION: cjwatson/bdmurray to add instructions on interfacing with bugsquad/qa to UbuntuDevelopment
10:31	mdz	what the bug squad is and how/when developers interact with it
10:31	mdz	thanks
10:31	mdz	moving on
10:31	mdz	(Riddell) I plan to upload patches to dist-upgrade tool unless anyone objects
10:31	mdz	Riddell: meaning the upgrader tarball?
10:32	Riddell	the patches to edgy-proposed
10:32	Riddell	the upgrader tar is stuck in soyuz somewhere
10:32	mvo	Riddell: it should be fixed now
10:32	mvo	Riddell: the latest is available
10:32	mdz	Riddell: the patches to several packages to support kubuntu release upgrades?
10:33	Riddell	mdz: yes, they're been greatly reduced since I first proposed them and pitti seems happy with the last review he gave
10:33	mdz	Riddell: if it has SRU approval, then I'm OK with it
10:33	pitti	oh, I still need to review your latest corrections, I think
10:33	cjwatson	the upgrader tar was rejected because the _all was built in binary-arch; mvo has fixed that
10:33	pitti	Riddell: tomorrow is my next archive/SRU review day, I'll come to that then
=== mvo coughs
10:33	Riddell	pitti: great
10:33	cjwatson	(binary reject reasons are hard to dig out of Soyuz)
10:34	mdz	Riddell: all done?
10:34	Riddell	yes, thanks
10:34	mdz	(bdmurray) [WWW]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/63175 - fsck not updating date checked possibly related to Feisty ([WWW]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/78801) fsck issue
10:34	Ubugtu	Malone bug 63175 in e2fsprogs "Edgy Beta -- fsck on every (re)boot" [Medium,Confirmed]
10:34	mdz	iirc we stopped setting the time-based flag in the superblock some time ago
10:34	bdmurray	This is something I have also seen bug reports about in Feisty.
10:34	mdz	[...everyone waits for beta to load...]
=== kylem blinks.
10:35	mdz	perhaps fsck behaviour has changed
10:36	mdz	hmm, wait, that's definitely not right
10:36	mdz	there should be no ...has gone N days without...
10:36	mdz	cjwatson: didn't we disable that in the installer?
10:36	mdz	(because of clock skew madness issues)
10:36	cjwatson	only for dos due to specific brokenness in dosfsck
10:36	cjwatson	er fat
10:36	cjwatson	I think it's a really bad idea to turn off fsck across the board
10:37	cjwatson	I can't imagine I'd have done that
10:37	mdz	or was it the mount count check?
10:37	mdz	the mount count check is not really appropriate for desktop/laptop systems
10:37	cjwatson	TTBOMK the installer hasn't changed
10:37	heno	it still does mount count check, my box did that yesterday
10:37	mdz	I'm not entirely sure about forcing a check of a marked-clean filesystem without user request on desktops
10:37	cjwatson	tune2fs(8) has a rant about why you shouldn't turn off mount count checking
10:38	cjwatson	even if the fs is marked clean
10:38	mdz	the user experience when fsck runs is pretty poor
10:38	cjwatson	we should fix that, but not by disabling it
10:38	ogra	how about setting it to 90 instead of 30
10:38	cjwatson	there's a spec for it too
10:38	kylem	cjwatson, that isn't horribly valid now that we have CRC checks on DMA to ide disks and such...
10:38	mdz	yeah, we've talked about it for a  while
10:38	heno	mine was some odd number yesterday like 22
10:38	Mithrandir	fsck+usplash you mean?
10:38	Seveas	[if beta remains slow: just disable redirection on the old launchpad.net frontpage :)]
10:38	cjwatson	Mithrandir: yes
10:39	Mithrandir	that's feisty+1 material, though.
10:39	cjwatson	kylem: I think "kernel bugs" still applies ;-)
10:39	cjwatson	(given that ext3 oopsed several times on me not that long ago ...)
10:39	kylem	cjwatson, nah. :)
10:39	kylem	it's perfect, it just doesn't like you. ;-)
10:39	pitti	heno: IIRC they are all 'almost prime' to make it less likely to get fscks on multiple partitions at the same time
10:40	heno	ok
10:40	pitti	heno: (in fact the ones I saw were pimes; 23, 29, 31, and such)
10:40	mvo	we could implement someting so that the user can skip/stop the check at least
10:40	cjwatson	anyway, does somebody want to volunteer to sort that bug out?
10:40	pkl_	kylem: that's not what Andrew Morton called it at Fosdem :-)
10:41	Seveas	pkl_, :)
10:41	cjwatson	I don't think attempting to either (a) debug it on the fly in the meeting or (b) redesign the entire system in the meeting is a good idea
10:41	mdz	cjwatson: agreed
10:41	kylem	cjwatson, i don't know... i did a feisty daily install on monday with nothing wrong with fsck... but, yeah, another place.
10:41	cjwatson	can anyone on the team reproduce this problem?
10:41	mdz	cjwatson: why don't you and bdmurray follow up after the meeting and allocate someone to help
10:41	cjwatson	or rather, has anyone reproduced it?
10:42	cjwatson	sure
10:42	bdmurray	cjwatson: I thought you mentioned it happened to ogra after installing Feisty.
10:42	mdz	I've never seen it; it sounds like it probably happens when the clock is borked
10:42	cjwatson	ogra's education rather than distro thoughe
10:42	cjwatson	-e
10:42	ogra	:P
10:42	ogra	i havent seen it today during testing
10:42	cjwatson	ogra: no disparagement intended, but your priorities lie in different places and we don't manage you :-)
10:42	ogra	it happened on all herds to me
10:42	mdz	I expect that setting the hardware clock to zero would reproduce it
10:42	kylem	might be worth asking marc, he does a lot of installs. :)
10:43	pitti	I did lots of test installs recently and never saw it
10:43	cjwatson	ACTION: cjwatson/bdmurray to find somebody to fix 63175
10:43	mdz	ok
10:43	cjwatson	let's move on
10:43	mdz	(mvo) use of XS-Vcs-* in debian/control [WWW]  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2007-March/000414.html
10:43	ogra	i'm happy to help though
10:43	cjwatson	mvo: a fine idea
10:44	mvo	XS-Vcs-bzr is about making the transition to bzr maintained packages easier. A lot are maintained in bzr already and the number is growing, but a lot are not.
10:44	mvo	I would like to proposed that if you see  (e.g. during a transition) a XS-Vcs-bzr field, commit directly or notify the maintainer. If you maintain your packages in bzr, add this tag to debian/control so that people touching the package know to send notification or commit into the bzr tree
10:44	mdz	mvo: this belongs on ubuntu-devel as it's directly relevant to development and needs feedback from people actively developing
10:44	mvo	mdz: yeah, my bad. shall I just re-send there?
10:44	Mithrandir	mvo: how would that field look when the source is in the package?
10:44	pitti	mvo: that needs some tool support, though
10:44	mdz	mvo: please do, yes.  I'll replay my comments there
10:44	cjwatson	Mithrandir: it should be pushed to bazaar.launchpad.net anyway for the packages we maintain
10:45	pitti	mvo: apt-get source at least warning you or so
10:45	mdz	in order for this to work well, I expect we need to find some way to detect the case where a bzr-maintained package is being uploaded without updating bzr
10:45	mvo	pitti: we could add this
10:45	cjwatson	if you have an example of one maintained by somebody else that isn't pushed anywhere else, feel free to bring it up, but otherwise that seems academic
10:45	mdz	and error out (overridably)
10:45	Mithrandir	I have played with the idea of making the casper build fail if you have uncommitted changes.
10:45	Mithrandir	(with an override mechanism, yes. :-)
10:45	mdz	we could require that the build be done from bzr, but that may not be appropriate in all cases
10:45	cjwatson	(speaking of which, the debian-maintainer-field error needs to be overridable)
10:46	Keybuk	cjwatson: thinking of a particular example?
10:46	LaserJock	people just building packages at home
10:46	cjwatson	Keybuk: we've had a number of complaints from people building local versions of *ubuntu* packages that haven't had their source changed yet
10:46	seb128_	yeah, it's pretty annoying to rebuild debug packages
10:46	cjwatson	it's obviously a bug that it doesn't use dpkg-source's normal errors-can-downgrade-to-warnings mechanism
10:47	cjwatson	anyway, sorry, this is just a bug rant, not meeting fodder
10:47	Keybuk	*nods*
10:47	mdz	tricky problem to get the check right often enough
10:47	Keybuk	the recent dch handling where you couldn't *not* get "ubuntuN" on the end annoyed me
10:47	mdz	if only debian required debian.org maintainer addresses...
10:47	doko	and its common to have "<releasename>" instead of "ubuntu" in the version
10:47	mdz	doko: false negatives are a minor issue, false positives are bad
10:47	mdz	which is sort of an argument for it being a warning instead of an error
10:48	mdz	except that builds are so noisy that nobody sees warnings
10:48	doko	add banner to build-essential
10:48	cjwatson	even without tool support, XS-VCS-Bzr would be a win for people who practice some degree of diligence, since it would save them time having to go to BzrMaintainedPackages all the time
10:48	mdz	perhaps we should downgrade to a warning for release, to avoid interfering with local builds
10:48	cjwatson	doko: hah
10:48	mdz	cjwatson: and it would increase the chances of that page being kept up-to-date
10:49	cjwatson	make it controlled by an environment variable that all the distro team set but nobody else has to
10:49	mdz	or rather, replacing it with something autogenerated which would be more likely up-to-date
10:49	cjwatson	UBUNTU_I_AM_A_DEVELOPER=1
10:49	mdz	grep ubuntu $DEBEMAIL
10:49	Keybuk	DEBMAIL~=ubuntu.com ?
10:49	pitti	$DEBEMAIL ~= ubuntu
10:49	cjwatson	yes!
10:49	pitti	Keybuk: heh, snap
10:49	cjwatson	then it can fail hard
10:50	mdz	pitti: will you take the action for that?
10:50	pitti	mdz: fine for me
10:50	mdz	ACTION: pitti to fix up dpkg-dev to only error hard if $DEBEMAIL contains ubuntu
10:50	mdz	(Riddell) do we want hwdb ask-email ?
10:51	pitti	mdz: (what a nasty hack...)
10:51	Riddell	I thought lifeless had implemented this in the gnome hwdb client ages ago
10:51	mdz	Riddell: if the question is whether we want hwdb-client to ask for an optional email address, yes, absolutely
10:51	mdz	pitti: nasty hacks R us
10:51	Riddell	but I looked today and he hadn't
10:51	mdz	Riddell: I remember talking to lifeless about it
10:51	mdz	and I thought it was done too
10:51	Riddell	mdz: there was a branch, but no commits
10:51	mdz	Riddell: maybe chase lifeless and see if he has code elsewhere?
10:51	Riddell	mdz: I did, he doesn't
10:51	mdz	oh
10:51	Riddell	I'm happy to do it in both frontends if we don't mind breaching feature freeze
10:52	mdz	Riddell: if the release team is happy, I'm happy. it's very much worth having
10:52	Riddell	I'll code it up and ask the release team to review
10:53	Mithrandir	as long as it's small enough, I'm fine with it.
10:53	mdz	great
10:53	Mithrandir	note that we're actually quite close to release now.  Release is in a month and a half, betafreeze is in two weeks.
10:53	mdz	Mithrandir: speaking of freezes and such, how are we doing?
10:54	doko	Mithrandir: do we have results from the rebuild tests?
10:54	Mithrandir	mdz: the targetted bug list is at ~100 bugs right now, which is too much.  I'll go through it and see what low hanging fruit there's to catch there as well as prod people to concentrate on the important bugs.
10:54	Riddell	ACTION: jonathan to implement ask-email in hwdb-client
10:54	Mithrandir	doko: I haven't received those yet, no.  I'll follow up on that.
10:54	Mithrandir	ACTION: tfheen to get rebuild test results and publish them somewhere.
10:54	mdz	Mithrandir: I feel like we should have a policy about targeted bugs and assignment
10:55	mdz	there should be a path by which bugs which are clearly real targets should be assigned as a matter of course
10:55	mdz	Mithrandir: do you review that from time to time?
10:55	Mithrandir	mdz: so far I've encouraged people to add a milestone if they believe a bug is important; the team is my ears and eyes.
10:55	Mithrandir	yes, I try to go through the list of bugs and downgrade the ones I don't think are really RC.
10:55	mdz	Mithrandir: but it happens occasionally that a bug is targeted without having an assignee yet
10:55	ogra	Riddell, ??
10:56	Mithrandir	mdz: yes, I'll get that fixed when I go through the list next time.
10:56	mdz	in which case there's no one for you to nag
10:56	Riddell	ogra: see discussion 21:50
10:56	Mithrandir	I'll find somebody. :-)
10:56	Mithrandir	I've also gone through the list of specs and will talk with the responsible people to see what needs to be deferred and what can be rescued.
10:56	mdz	there should be plenty of bandwidth for RC bugs now that we're in feature freeze
10:57	mdz	that's our focus
10:57	ogra	Riddell, i dont think it was ever implemente3d and lifeless refused to touch the GUI
10:57	Riddell	ogra: quite a hard feature to implement without touching the GUI :)
10:57	mdz	ok
10:57	mdz	any other business for the meeting?
10:57	ogra	Riddell, exactly :)
10:57	heno	I'll just post the LP stuff:
10:58	heno	== Launchpad meeting report ==
10:58	heno	* I raised the performance issues in beta. They will do some profiling and esp. look at how the JS and CSS files are loaded, perhaps inlining some of it
10:58	heno	* That also raised the general point of how to file or tag bugs that are beta-specific (like performance or the failure to fit in a small window). The suggestion of a 'beta' tag was rejected. It was suggested we use the tag '1.0' (which means fix this before 1.0 is out, so not quite the same IMO)
10:58	pitti	mdz: a small announcement
10:59	Mithrandir	heno: is there any data we can provide which helps the developers fix the performance bugs?
10:59	heno	Mithrandir: yes, I think you did some comparative timings AFAIR
10:59	heno	that should be useful
10:59	heno	or use Firebug I think it's called
11:00	Mithrandir	yes, I used firebug and looked at the load times.
11:00	cjwatson	heno: 1.0 seems like a reasonable default for regressions in the beta from current production
11:00	heno	which analyses traffic on page loads
11:00	heno	cjwatson: that's true
11:00	heno	these are basically regressions
11:01	heno	though they may also be beta-specific nits
11:01	heno	not worthy of 'fix-before-1.0' status
11:01	heno	anyway ...
11:01	mdz	ok
11:01	cjwatson	it's not clear to me when something is strictly beta-specific (i.e. something that will only be true of the beta and somehow not true when it is deployed on launchpad.net)
11:01	mdz	we're out of time
=== pitti raises hand
11:02	mdz	pitti: please go ahead
11:02	pitti	I have a little surprise, especially for crashmaster seb128 and segvmaster dholbach: just three minutes before the meeting I got the apport fakechroot stuff working
11:02	pitti	i. e. I can now build and use chroots for apport-retracing entirely with user privileges
11:02	pitti	right now you still have to call it manually, but that at least solves the 'I do not have this architecture' problem, as well as bandwidth issues
11:02	dholbach	pitti: YOU ROCK :)
11:02	seb128_	rock on ;)
=== seb128_ hugs pitti
11:02	mdz	pitti: neat!
=== dholbach hugs pitti
11:02	pitti	it should be relatively easy to search for bugs with unretraced crashes and add comments with debug stack traces automatically; I'll do that in my 'after hours' in the next time
=== dholbach hugs seb128 too
11:02	pitti	to roll this out to the porter machines in the DC, I just need RT#26845 fixes (installation of fake[ch] root on porter machines); maybe I can get a little pushing from the management folks to get this sorted out soon? :)
11:02	ogra	pitti, you made fakechroot work ???? !!!!
=== ogra hugs pitti
=== seb128 hugs dholbach back
11:02	mdz	pitti: if you write a document explaining how to do it, that can be farmed out to the QA team
11:03	pitti	mdz: right, but my idea is to make it fully automatic
11:03	iwj__	pitti: I should look at that, as I think I might want to attach some of my autopkgtest tendrils if you have a fakeroot-based chroot builder.
11:03	pitti	file a crash bug, half an hour later you have the retrace
11:03	mdz	pitti: sure, that'd obviously be better
11:03	iwj__	(Well done, btw.)
11:03	pitti	iwj__: sure, I have it in a Python class
11:03	iwj__	Right.  I'll ask you about it tomorrow.
11:03	pitti	mdz: the only problem is that fakeroot needs to be apt-get isntall'ed, because of this /usr/lib/libfakeroot.so stub
11:03	pitti	that's why I need that RT
11:04	mdz	pitti: I'm sure we can get that installed on a server in the DC
11:04	ogra	pitti, does that mean i can use fakechroot in a normal way for ubuntu systems as well ?
11:04	pitti	ogra: well, why not?
11:04	pitti	ogra: the package itself is ages old
11:04	pitti	of course it's pretty limited, but it's just perfect for apport-retrace's sake
11:04	ogra	i know but i didnt manage to get an ubuntu chroot working in edgy
11:05	pitti	anyway, technical stuff, not for the meeting
11:05	mdz	right, truly out of time now
11:05	mdz	thanks, everyone
11:05	mdz	good night
</pre>
