{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
* Until launchpad sends out expiration emails, the CC secretary will take care of reminding people to renew Ubuntu membership. Members of teams that are member of the ubuntumembers team  do not need to renew their membership, since they will still be members by inclusion. ''<nowiki>[[#members|View More.]]</nowiki>''
* The following people are nominated for positions on the community council. Voting starts on monday, feb 19 (if no technical issues delay this) and 3 out of these 5 people will join the community council. Colin Watson will step down from the council, making the number of council members six. ''<nowiki>[[#nominate|View More.]]</nowiki>''
** Daniel Holbach
** Matthew East
** Mike Basinger
** Corey Burger
** Jerome Gotangco
* The members of the forums council pointed out that there may be conflicts of interest when  Mike (who is also on the forums council) joins the community council. The current proposal to solve this, is that someone who is member of 2 councils cannot vot twice on the same matter and will have to recuse in the council that's higher up in the hierarchy. For example, Mike has to recuse on forums issues and Daniel will have to recuse on MOTU matters that are escalated to the community council.  ''<nowiki>[[#conflict|View More.]]</nowiki>''
* Elizabeth Bevilacqua was added as administrator for the ubuntu-women team on launchpad to overcome the lack of administrators now that the current ones have not been around in a while. A mail was sent to the current administrators and if no reply to that mail is received within reasonable time, the sysadmins will take care of giving other members of the ubuntu-women team access to the ubuntu-women website. ''<nowiki>[[#women|View More.]]</nowiki>''
* The Venezuelan Lo``Co``Team is welcomed as official Lo``Co``Team. ''<nowiki>[[#VE|View More.]]</nowiki>''

=== Memberships ===
* '''<nowiki>[[Nocturn|Guy van Sanden]]</nowiki>'''  ''<nowiki>[[#nocturn|View log.]]</nowiki>''
* '''<nowiki>[[sriramadas|ம. ஸ்ரீ ராமதாஸ் (Sri Ramadoss Mahalingam)]]</nowiki>''' ''<nowiki>[[#amachu|View log.]]</nowiki>''
* '''<nowiki>[[DanBuch|Dan Buch]]</nowiki>''' ''<nowiki>[[#meatballhat|View log.]]</nowiki>''
* '''<nowiki>[[TobySmithe|Toby Smithe]]</nowiki>''' ''<nowiki>[[#tsmithe|View log.]]</nowiki>''
* '''<nowiki>[[FreddyMartinez|Freddy Martinez]]</nowiki>''' ''<nowiki>[[#admrial|View log.]]</nowiki>''
* '''<nowiki>[[CarlosPerelloMarin|Carlos Perelló Marín]]</nowiki>''' ''<nowiki>[[#admrial|View log.]]</nowiki>''

 <nowiki>[[TomMarble|Tom Marble]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[LionelPorcheron|Lionel Porcheron]]</nowiki>

=== Log ===
<pre>
01:00	Seveas	The agnda for today is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda
01:00	Seveas	Hopefully the meeting will start soon
01:00	Seveas	cjwatson, elmo: ping
01:01	amachu	ok
01:01	elmo	I'm here
01:01	nocturn	Hi guys
01:01	Seveas	elmo, welcome!
=== Hobbsee wonders when a new CC will be chosen?
01:02	dinda	Seveas - I'm/ we're here with the Ubuntu-Women's Project
01:02	Seveas	Hobbsee, Soon(tm)
01:02	Seveas	Hobbsee, as in Soon(tm)
01:04	amachu	ShankarGanesh: hi Shankar Ganesh also represents Ubuntu Tamil Team
01:04	Seveas	amachu, is tamilteam on the agenda?
01:04	mako	greetings
01:05	Seveas	were 2/3 there with CC availability
01:05	Seveas	unless I missed cjwatson somehow
01:05	amachu	Seveas: I have applied for Membership
01:05	dinda	oh, and I have vidoe of him singing too!
01:05	mako	i'm making coffe right now :)
01:08	elmo	sabdfl's apparently on his way...
01:08	Seveas	elmo, very nice! I thought he was not able to make it
01:09	cjwatson	hi, sorry
01:10	Seveas	cjwatson, elmo, mako: shall we get startd once mako has coffee or dowe wait for mark?
01:11	nocturn	Seveas: I hope I can stay (I'm at work)
01:11	elmo	if colin's happy to be part of the meeting (I thought we'd let him off of CC duties - he did resign after all), we may as well get started.  we have quorum and Mark can catch up
01:11	gnomefreak	elmo Seveas cjwatson mako if im not around i would like to say that Admiral_Chicago (freddy) has been doing alot of bugs, wikis, and alot of work with the mozilla-team (im sure a few others will be here to cheer also from that team)
01:11	nocturn	So excuse me if I have to leave during the meeting...
01:11	Seveas	gnomefreak, noted, thanks!
01:12	Seveas	elmo, ah sorry, didn't know that yet
01:13	cjwatson	elmo: I can if need be, but if you're happy with just three for today I'd certainly rather be doing other things
01:14	elmo	cjwatson: as a compromise, would you mind puppeting as mark till he arrives?
01:15	cjwatson	sure
01:15	mako	sound good then
01:15	Seveas	ok, let's get started
01:15	Seveas	Dennis Kaarsemaker
01:15	Seveas	Expiring members
01:15	Seveas	I took the liberty of extending Paul Sladens membership until the meeting but we should implement a procedure for handling expired members
01:15	sabdfl	hi all
01:16	Seveas	we were about to start the meting with point one on the agenda
01:16	Seveas	so, let's repeat that:
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(members)]]</nowiki><pre>
01:16	Seveas	Dennis Kaarsemaker
01:16	Seveas	Expiring members
01:16	Seveas	I took the liberty of extending Paul Sladens membership until the meeting but we should implement a procedure for handling expired members
01:17	Seveas	in the mean time Paul Sladen and Brandon Hale have expired (well, their membership), but they are still members via ubuntu-(core-)dev
01:18	mako	so i talked to a few LP people in mountainview
01:18	mako	about having the pinging and such be automatic
01:19	sabdfl	that work is underway, iirc, and may already have landed just not deployed
01:19	mako	so that folks that were interested in staying members could just reply to something quickly and stay on board
01:19	mako	sabdfl: right
01:19	mako	Seveas: so in the mean time, i guess we just do it by hand
01:19	Seveas	mako, ok
01:19	mako	Seveas: someone sends and email and asks if they want to renew their membership
01:20	sabdfl	have pinged salgado who was working on that
01:20	Seveas	will renewing involve coming to a meeting?
01:20	mako	Seveas: if they do, we renew a year, that's it :)
01:20	mako	Seveas: not until they don't respond and we unreg them
01:20	Seveas	mako, how about "we're not sure whether you are still contributing" cases
01:21	sabdfl	in the case of people who are members via another team, like artwork or edubuntu or kubuntu or -dev, i think we should encourage them just to maintain that angle
01:21	mako	Seveas: we trust them to make that distinction on their own
01:21	jsgotangco	+1
01:21	sabdfl	in other words, minimise the CC interaction, delegating as much as possible
01:21	Seveas	sabdfl, so bhale and sladen can stay on expired because they still are in -dev
01:21	mako	Seveas: it's not bulletproof, but if we don't trust folks, we shouldn't make them members in the first place
01:21	sabdfl	yes
01:21	sladen	it depends whether -member is the representation of agreement with an idealogy (the CoC) or a declaration of consistent commitment
01:21	bhale	ah, sorry i am sortof here
01:22	sabdfl	i think we could get the expiration email to even describe that explicitly
01:22	mako	sabdfl: yes, that's right
01:22	mako	Seveas: we can work on that text now, and then whatever we come up with probably be send when LP starts doing it
01:22	Seveas	mako, sounds good - shall I work on some words and e-mail it to cc@?
01:22	sabdfl	"your direct membership in team foobar will expire in 4 days, but because you are a member in the following teams you will effectively stay active in foobar:
01:22	sabdfl	- bazbar
01:22	sabdfl	- blubar
01:22	sabdfl	"
01:23	mako	Seveas: sure, or we can put a draft in the wiki
01:23	mako	Seveas: whatever works
01:24	Seveas	ok, so nothing for that needed in this meeting right now afaics
01:24	Seveas	let's move on unless someone objects (respond quickl if you do :))
</pre><pre>
01:25	Seveas	Belinda Lopez
01:25	Seveas	Ubuntu Women's Project - Website admins for the domain have been unresponsive, we have no access to the main site, Project leaders have gone missing as well, we want to move forward but make sure previous leaders/admins have had an opportunity to step down. Should we be considered a Loco Team?
01:25	dinda	We're here: dinda pleia2  nurseGirl hobbsee
01:25	dinda	Greetings all!
01:25	Seveas	hi dinda
01:26	sabdfl	hey guys
01:26	jsgotangco	wha? she's still not a member all this time?
01:26	mako	hola
01:26	sabdfl	yes, i think the general process should be similar to a loco team
01:26	dinda	lol - next meeting I'll be ready!
01:26	Hobbsee	jsgotangco: sorry?
01:26	sabdfl	who are the website admins and project leaders?
01:26	dinda	Pleia2 can give those names?
=== Hobbsee will admit to not knowing much about the project, nor knowing much about it. from the outside, it looks interesting though.
=== Hobbsee cant really plead the case as a loco team.
01:27	pleia2	sabdfl: currently Vidya Ayer is the only one who has access to the website, she also controls the Launchpad team and mailing list
01:27	pleia2	she never called herself the project lead, but she pretty much was, she was the one who spearheaded the creation
01:28	mako	pleia2: and is unresponsive atm?
01:28	pleia2	mako: the last I heard from her was late December, I have emailed her twice since then
01:28	sabdfl	ok, i have contact details for vidya
01:28	mako	yeah, so do i
01:28	sabdfl	who would be the new leader?
01:28	mako	one of us should send an email and if we don't hear back in a week or so, we'll xfer stuff over
01:29	mako	sabdfl: should you do it or should i? i'm happy to right now
01:29	sabdfl	lp allows us to add admins to the team
01:29	pleia2	I'd volunteer to be the new leader, I've been with the group since almost the beginning
01:29	sabdfl	mako: i'll do it, right away, and cc the cc
=== mako nods
01:29	mako	ok.. we can also just add another admin right now
01:30	sabdfl	do we have consensus from the folks here that pleia2 would be a good admin for the lp team?
01:30	dindatx	definitely
01:30	sabdfl	and also website admin if we need to add that?
01:30	pleia2	thanks dinda
01:30	Hobbsee	from the little i see of it, yep.
01:30	sabdfl	i don't know how the website stuff works. elmo?
01:30	elkbuntu	i'm in the same situation as hobbsee with this
01:30	pleia2	sabdfl: the UW site is on a loco box (if that helps)
01:30	pleia2	you'd need my ssh key
01:30	elmo	sabdfl: we can recover it and give others access
01:31	NurseGirl	I support pleia2, definitely
01:31	sabdfl	pleia2: pls privmsg me your email address and full name, and lp username
01:31	sabdfl	mako, could you make pleia2 an admin on the ubuntu-women lp team?
01:32	sabdfl	if we don't hear from vidya in a week we can make pleia2 the owner, and one of the other women an admin as a backup
01:32	mako	sabdfl: sure
01:32	sabdfl	mako, if you need lp-admin to do that you should have it
01:32	mako	sabdfl: i'll let you know in a second
01:33	sabdfl	mako: pleia2 is lyz in lp
01:33	pleia2	and just for the record, Vidya did tons of work with this group and her contributions are greatly valued
01:33	mako	sabdfl: i do need lp-admin
01:33	mako	pleia2: absolutely
01:34	dindatx	all of the previous folks did great work, which is why we didn't want to just take over
01:34	MikeB-	pleia2: probably a case of real life taking over, hopefully she will be back
01:34	pleia2	MikeB-: nod, before I lost contact entirely she was quite busy (since about August I've been trying to get changes made on the site, she's been busy)
01:36	dindatx	both Pleia2 and I emailed Jono for guidance and he recommended we come here for help
01:36	elmo	mako: I'll do it
01:37	sabdfl	mako: sent
01:37	Seveas	is the website access being done now as well or will that be waiting unitl Vidya had a chanceto respond to that e-mail?
01:38	sabdfl	pleia2: cc'd you, let us know if there's no reply to you in a week
01:38	sabdfl	website should wait
01:38	pleia2	sabdfl: thank you
01:38	sabdfl	in lp we can *add* an admin
01:38	Seveas	ok
01:38	elmo	I've made pleia2 an admin of u-w in LP now
01:38	mako	awesome
01:39	dindatx	thanks
01:39	pleia2	thanks
01:39	Seveas	ok, that's all for the ubuntu-womens team for now I guess
01:39	dindatx	now we can move forward following the Loco Team format
01:39	Seveas	yup
01:40	Seveas	let's hope to see you back as LoCoTeam in one of the next meetings!
01:40	dindatx	anything else, Pleia2?
01:40	sabdfl	btw, salgado says that we should be sending daily notifications to people who's memberships expire within a week
01:40	Seveas	sabdfl, ewwww....
01:40	sabdfl	if anyone here did *not* get such a heads-up in thelast few days, please contact salgado to debug
01:41	Seveas	that's too spammy to my taste :)
01:41	mako	sabdfl: daily notifications mean there is a batch send once a day
01:41	jsgotangco	at least we show we care hehe
01:41	sabdfl	mako: yes
01:41	mako	sabdfl: not you get a single email EVERY DAY after you have expired
01:41	sabdfl	not after you expire
01:41	sabdfl	in the week before
01:41	mako	ok
01:41	pleia2	dindatx: there is the mailing list too, but we might want to wait to tackle that with the website access after a week
01:41	sabdfl	then you get the "you have expired" mail
01:41	sabdfl	then radio silence
01:42	Seveas	ok, so we're moving on to locoteams
01:42	mako	sounds good
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(VE)]]</nowiki><pre>
01:42	Seveas	Anyone from ubuntu-ve?
01:42	effie_jayx	Me
01:42	Seveas	Rolando Blanco?
01:42	effie_jayx	here is here
01:42	rolando-ve	Hi
01:42	sabdfl	Seveas: i think this choice was the simplest, feel free to talk with kiko and salgado about other ideas
01:42	sabdfl	less spammy ones
01:43	Seveas	hi rolando-ve and effie_jayx
01:43	mako	ok
01:43	effie_jayx	hi all
01:43	rolando-ve	Hi Seveas! hi all
01:43	effie_jayx	Seveas,  hi :D
01:43	Seveas	do you have an english wikipage/websote about ubuntu-ve?
01:43	Seveas	I'm afraidI don't speak spanish
01:44	effie_jayx	Seveas,  our proposal is in english
01:44	Seveas	(and please ignore my bad spelling, I'm feeling a bit ill)
01:44	Seveas	effie_jayx, where is it? The CC agenda links to a spanish page
01:44	effie_jayx	Seveas,  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/ApprovalApplication
01:44	effie_jayx	sorry about that
01:45	elkbuntu	C3s4r, is also a member of ubuntu-ve. hola C3s4r :)
01:46	Seveas	effie_jayx, how's the collaboration with other locoteams going?
01:47	effie_jayx	Seveas,  well ... it has been interesting
01:47	effie_jayx	this past few months we have helped them get stablished... but
01:48	effie_jayx	they are also workigin in gathering more people to use the services...
01:48	sabdfl	rolando-ve, effie_jayx: have things settled down with quidam now?
01:48	sabdfl	i had mail fromhimrecently asking if the changes had been made
01:48	sabdfl	they had, but he couldn't see that on the relevant lp page
01:49	effie_jayx	sabdfl,  we have.. and we are working on the three admins to give direction to the team
01:49	mako	that's all good to hear
01:50	effie_jayx	Seveas,  in teams like ubuntu-do ... the main problem is they have power failiures
01:50	effie_jayx	very frequntly... they don't stay online for long
01:50	sabdfl	i'm glad those issues straightened out so nicely, well done
=== mako nods to sabdfl enthusiastically
01:50	effie_jayx	sabdfl,  quidam is a great friend of a friend of mine.. so no harm there
01:51	mako	the ve team looks large and active from what i can see, you should be proud :)
01:51	effie_jayx	sabdfl, here is really keen to see team he started go somewhere...
01:51	effie_jayx	mako,  it has been the collective spirit of various LUGs in my country
01:51	Seveas	mako, indeed, the -ve team has been a good example to other latin american teams
01:51	mako	awesome :)
=== elkbuntu agrees with Seveas.
01:52	effie_jayx	the key has been to be open to freedom and brotherhood
01:52	sabdfl	ok, i'm quite happy with the state of this loco team
01:53	sabdfl	they've handled one change of leadership well, which is a good sign
01:53	effie_jayx	something rolando has always tried to put in  everything
01:53	sabdfl	and are organised with a clear plan
01:53	sabdfl	so, +1 from me
01:53	elmo	+1
01:53	mako	+1 form me as well
01:54	Seveas	Wel done rolando-ve, effie_jayx, C3s4r and others!
01:54	elkbuntu	congrats venezuela :)
01:54	Seveas	Congratulations!
01:55	effie_jayx	Thanks cc for the trust you put in the team
01:55	effie_jayx	this is not a goal... this is the continuation of the challenge
</pre><pre>
01:54	Seveas	sabdfl now has the stage for an extra item on the agenda
01:55	sabdfl	ok, i've taken too long to get this sorted, my apologies to cjwatson and others who have been waiting patiently!
01:55	sabdfl	it's time to nominate new folks to the CC
01:55	sabdfl	we have a much bigger community, and I think it would be good to get representation from some new parts of that community
01:56	sabdfl	so i will be nominating some folks from the forums, and other parts of the broad ubuntu project
01:56	sabdfl	currently, there are 5 nominations, all of whom have said they are happy to stand for the post
01:56	C3s4r	:D
01:56	sabdfl	   y daniel holbach
01:56	sabdfl	   y matthew east
01:56	sabdfl	   y mike basinger
01:56	sabdfl	   y corey burger
01:56	sabdfl	   y jerome gotangco
01:57	Seveas	how many people will be in the new CC? Who of the current CC will stay?
01:57	sabdfl	cjwatson will be stepping down from the CC (but standing for the TB iirc)
01:57	sabdfl	elmo, mako, and i will stay
01:57	Hobbsee	no one from x/kubuntu there.  looks good though
01:58	sabdfl	i don't yet know the xubuntu community well enough ( not sure it yet has the scale)
01:58	jenda	Hobbsee: Why did I read that as "no one from x/kubuntu there.  looks good"
01:58	mako	jenda: :)
01:58	sabdfl	would like a kubuntu representative, but haven't yet met the person who is CC-ish from that group, mortly TB-ish folks still
01:58	Hobbsee	jenda: er, those statements were supposed to be split :P
01:58	gpocentek	the xubuntu community is not large enough to have members in the CC IMO
01:59	jenda	How will the election work for this?
01:59	mako	for the record, the cc is not supposed to be strictly representative
01:59	sabdfl	well, a really good CC candidate would represent all of us
01:59	sabdfl	not just a constituency
01:59	mako	every member on the CC will be dealing with issues pertaining to the entire project
01:59	sabdfl	mako: +1 :-)
01:59	jsgotangco	gpocentek: it does not follow strictly though
01:59	Hobbsee	sabdfl: you'd probably have to ask the kubuntu community who would fit that.
01:59	mako	and so it's important that they be know and respected by folks in all parts
01:59	sabdfl	Hobbsee: i've gone through quite a process to put this list together
02:00	sabdfl	would really like 2 more names, and am open to suggestions today
02:00	Hobbsee	sabdfl: of course, wasnt suggesting that you hadnt :)
02:00	sabdfl	people should have made an impact outside of a particular group
02:00	mako	Hobbsee: the idea would be that if there were additional names, it would be an election
02:00	sabdfl	anyhow the suggestion is that we should vote and the top n-2 out of n should get a seat on the CC
02:01	sabdfl	that way, there is some real competitive position
02:01	sabdfl	and we have at least 2 candidates for the next round to start with :-)
02:01	Seveas	wouldn't that make the CC rather large?
02:01	sabdfl	well
02:01	Seveas	ah, next round :)
02:01	sabdfl	it would make it 6
02:01	sabdfl	but we want to have some rotation
02:01	sabdfl	i would like to cover more timezones
02:01	sabdfl	and have more processes that involve just one or two cc members
02:01	sabdfl	so we can respond to regional issues without a full meeting
02:02	sabdfl	and have quorum at meetings in all timezones without having to ask mako or an aussie to be up at 4 am
02:02	mako	sabdfl: 8 by my count with the current list
02:02	sabdfl	mako: not if we take the top 3 of 5
02:02	mako	ah, right
02:02	mako	in any case, i'm all for a larger cc
02:02	mako	it will allow us to be more active as a group
02:02	sabdfl	we will do the same with the TB
02:03	sabdfl	relatively few things require close-to-consensus
02:03	sabdfl	binary drivers....
02:03	sabdfl	tough decisions
02:03	sabdfl	most things can be done with quorum
02:03	mako	we're all stretched thin.. but with more people we can at least be broad and thin ::)
02:03	sabdfl	which we should try to keep attainable in all timezones without too much difficulty
02:03	Seveas	I'm trying to think of people who have been around long enough and made an impact
02:04	Seveas	the current list is pretty good
02:05	Seveas	for how long will they be on the council? 2 years?
02:05	sabdfl	yes
02:05	sabdfl	with the MC we nominated some for 1, some for 2, to get the rotation
02:05	sabdfl	but here i think we want broader representation
02:06	Seveas	MC?
02:06	sabdfl	motu council
02:06	Seveas	ah
02:06	sabdfl	dholbach is nominated for both
02:07	sabdfl	ok, let's go with this list
02:07	mako	i'm glad to hear that there's no objections :)
02:07	sabdfl	ok, i will verify that LP polls allow us to select the top m of n options
02:07	mako	hard work and clean living pays off
02:08	sabdfl	perhaps some condorcet variation has been implemented
02:08	sabdfl	hopefully there are not too many bugs!
02:08	Seveas	sabdfl, use devotee *evil grin*
02:08	mako	sabdfl: if it isn't, we should just go with approval voting
=== mako has written his own election methods library :)
02:09	sabdfl	mako: not sure how we select top "top 3 of 5" if we just have approval voting?
02:09	jsgotangco	in ruby? heh
02:09	sabdfl	those who get the most votes?
02:09	mako	sabdfl: you count up the approvals
02:09	jenda	sabdfl: most approvals
02:09	sabdfl	ok
02:10	mako	sabdfl: it's the easiest method to implement that usually selects the same as preferential systems
02:10	sabdfl	right
02:10	sabdfl	i think we can do that
02:10	sabdfl	may need some behind the scenes data analysis
02:10	sabdfl	ok, done
02:10	sabdfl	thanks to those candidates for standing
02:10	sabdfl	voting will run from monday, for two weeks, roughly, unless naybody has objections to that?
02:11	sabdfl	all ubuntu-members are eligible to vote
02:11	jenda	mako: just for clarification, would that mean everyone can approve or disapprove of each of the 5 candidates?
02:11	jenda	sabdfl: and would there be a possibility to vote outside that period? eg. by email
02:12	jenda	(because I can't)
02:12	mako	jenda: i wouldn't say disapprove, but yes
02:12	mako	jenda: that's the interface
02:12	mako	but sine most people will probably approval candidates
02:12	sabdfl	jenda: you can't?
02:12	mako	a prefential system would probably be, er, preferred
02:12	jenda	I'll be on the road for a month
02:13	mako	jenda: find an internet cafe?
02:13	MikeB-	sabdfl,: I can remain on the FC is I serve on the CC?
02:13	jenda	mako: of course, I can try, but I'd greatly prefer if I could email my votes before hand :) But I don't want to disrupt the meeting with this.
02:14	elmo	MikeB-: absolutely
02:15	posingaspopular	jenda: good luck to you on your travels
02:16	jenda	(thank you, I'll be meeting the indian loco team ;))
02:16	sabdfl	MikeB-: certainly
02:16	Seveas	any more outstanding issues with the CC votes?
02:16	mako	MikeB-: i hope you choose to :)
02:16	sabdfl	ok
02:16	sabdfl	next?
02:16	Seveas	member candidates!
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(nocturn)]]</nowiki><pre>
02:16	Seveas	nocturn, you're up
02:16	nocturn	Hi all
02:17	nocturn	I'm nocturn, candidate for Ubuntu membership.
02:17	nocturn	I have been a moderator on Ubuntuforums for 1,5 years now if I remember correctly
02:17	nocturn	So, on that basis, I would like to apply
02:18	Seveas	MikeB- (or any other forums folks), can you vouch for nocturn?
02:18	MikeB-	nocturn is a fantastic forums mod
02:18	Vorian	I am here to cheer for nocturn.  He is a wonderful staff member on Ubuntu Forums, and is extremely helpful to all.
02:18	jenda	yes, nocturn has been a very good mod :)
02:18	MikeB-	+1 from me
02:19	sabdfl	ok, +1 from me. i think any moderator in good standing for more than 3 months would qualify
02:19	Seveas	hmm, last time I looked at the ubuntuforums-staff teampage it had much less members. Great improvement there
02:19	sabdfl	nocturn: that said, do you have the relevant wiki page?
02:19	nocturn	sabdfl: you mean about me?
02:19	jenda	Seveas: there are yet even a few who aren't on the LP page yet.
02:19	MikeB-	very helpful and level headed when helping people
02:20	sabdfl	nocturn: yes, we usually expect new members to have a wiki page describing their work to date and plans in ubuntu
02:20	nocturn	My wiki page is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Nocturn
02:21	sabdfl	that's a bit thin!
02:21	mako	so usually i'd like to see a lot more in terms of wiki pages
02:21	sabdfl	who has a good example?
02:21	nixternal	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RichardJohnson :)
02:21	MikeB-	seveas: I have been updating the ubuntuforums-team page
02:22	mako	i'm happy to proceed in this particular case because we've explicitly said that we would give the benefit of the doubt to long-time forums moderators
02:22	ogra	sabdfl, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanielRobitaille
02:22	nocturn	Thanks Mako
02:22	nixternal	sabdfl: yours isn't a good example? ;)
02:22	mako	RichardJohnson's is pretty good :)
02:23	jsgotangco	goodness
02:23	carlos	mako: but isn't that duplicating most of the info in launchpad?
02:23	mako	carlos: some of it, yes :)
02:23	carlos	I mean... mine doesn't have all that information because most of it is already tracked there...
02:23	mako	yes, that makes sense
02:23	mako	although it's nice to highly particular things taht show up in launchpad that you are proud of
02:24	elkbuntu	so long as the info is somewhere
02:24	ogra	well nixternal os a doc guy ... they love to play with layouts, you know ;)
02:24	carlos	mako: ok
02:24	nixternal	thanks ogra, just set me out :)
02:24	ogra	nixternal, your page is great :)
02:24	sabdfl	nocturn: can you see the sort of thing we're looking for?
02:25	jenda	nixternal: how about making it into a userpage template, hmm?
02:25	sabdfl	mikeb, could you ask other forums staff who look for explicit membership to follow those examples?
02:25	nocturn	sabdfl: I see
02:25	sabdfl	MikeB-: ^^
02:25	ShankarGanesh	NIXTERNAL: your blog really rocks!!!
02:25	MikeB-	sabdfl: sure
02:25	sabdfl	in this case, happy to +1 give the longstanding work done by nocturnal, and this is the first case
02:26	ogra	MikeB-, nice quote on planet btw :)
02:26	sabdfl	but in future we'll ask for that web page to be something other people can read and gain some real insight into the person
02:26	nocturn	sabdfl: I'll update it soon.  I followed an example of another mod
02:26	MikeB-	orga: thanks
02:26	sabdfl	ok
02:27	sabdfl	elmo?
02:27	elmo	+1
02:27	mako	nocturn: awesome, thanks :)
02:27	mako	nocturn: welcome!
02:27	nocturn	Thanks guys!
02:27	Vorian	yay nocturn !!!!
</pre><pre>
02:28	mako	whose next?
02:28	Seveas	amach1, you're up
02:28	amach1	hi all
02:28	amach1	I am Sri Ramadoss and is seeking for Ubuntu Membership.
02:28	amach1	I am currently the contact person of Ubuntu Tamil LoCo Team.
02:28	amach1	We are from Tamil Nadu, India. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/sriramadas is my wiki page giving a glimpse about my contributions.
02:29	ShankarGanesh	I know amach1 and he's been my friend for just a month. He's introduced me to a lot of things about ubuntu localisation
02:29	amach1	I have been managing Ubuntu Tamil Team for the past eight months.
02:29	amach1	I have here with me Shankar Ganesh, who joined us recently and currently part of our student wing.
02:29	ShankarGanesh	so, +1 for Ramadoss (amach1) from me
02:30	ShankarGanesh	He's organised a good group with support from organisations here who've been with him supporting him financially
02:30	elkbuntu	amach1, is active and enthusiastic with LoCo stuff, and reguarly contributes to discussions between LoCos
02:30	ShankarGanesh	yeah, he does
02:31	sabdfl	amach1: very good wiki page - thank you!
02:31	sabdfl	gives me a clear idea what you are doing
02:31	sabdfl	can you tell me - i'm ignorant - what's the relationship between Tamil Nadu and the Tamil's of Sri Lanka?
02:31	amach1	sabdfl: thank u
02:31	mako	Seveas, sabdfl, elmo: is someonbody approving these as we go?
02:31	amach1	sabdfl: we work together in Translation
02:31	Seveas	mako, I'll do that
02:32	sabdfl	mako: i have the page up, just haven't approved any.. ok thanks seveas
02:32	amach1	sabdfl: as we both share same common mother tongue
02:33	amach1	sabdfl: Tamil is one of the official Language in India as well as Sri Lanka
02:33	sabdfl	ok, and is there a loco team there?
02:33	Seveas	nocturn, please join the ubuntumembers team on launchpad
02:33	amach1	sabdfl: i hope there is a Sri Lankan Team
02:33	Seveas	(other member candidates who have not done that yet: please do so as well)
02:33	nocturn	Seveas: OK
02:34	amach1	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SriLankanTeam
02:34	elkbuntu	there is a sri lankan team, but i believe it's dormant at the moment
02:35	sabdfl	ok, i'm happy with amach1 for membership on the back of his role in the tamil nadu loco team
02:35	amach1	sabdfl: thank you
02:35	sabdfl	i'd be thrilled to hear that the ubuntu sri lankan tamil / non-tamil folks had strong collaboration and cooperation in place
02:35	nocturn	Seveas: done
02:35	sabdfl	so let me know if there's movement on that front
02:36	amach1	sabdfl: sure
02:36	sabdfl	ok, great work. elmo? mako?
02:36	elmo	+1
02:37	mako	+1 from me as well
02:37	Seveas	congratulations amach1!
02:37	mako	amach1: i was reading through your stuff.. lots of it :)
02:38	amach1	Seveas: Thank You everyone
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(meatballhat)]]</nowiki><pre>
02:38	Seveas	meatballhat (Dan Buch), you're up
02:38	meatballhat	Hello! My name is Dan Buch and here's my profile: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanBuch  Most of the work that I do can be seen here http://diy.devubuntu.com
02:38	meatballhat	My primary focus is advocacy in every way possible, which is what led me to the Marketing Team.  I continually push for adoption of FOSS at my place of work, and I've fallen into the habit of steering every conversation possible into the subject of Ubuntu.
02:38	meatballhat	In the long term, I would like to push for adoption of Ubuntu throughout the public sector, especially as my state has had a particularly spotty recent history with regard to fiscal responsibility.  With the help of my fellow LoCo Team members, I am confident that a significant Ubuntu presence in Ohio is not only possible but inevitable.
02:38	meatballhat	To sum it up:  I would like to see Bug #1's bug head on a bug pike.<!--end canned speech -->
Ubugtu	Malone bug 1 in ichthux "Microsoft has a majority market share" [Critical,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/1
02:38	jenda	Dan has been an amazing help in both creation and design/planning of diy.devubuntu.com . He is a very dedicated Ubuntero and Ubuntu would be half without him :)
02:39	Vorian	Dan has been instrumental in the work that has been done to make the start up of the Ohio LoCo team such a success to this point.  With Dans help, we have become the largest LoCo team in the United States, with over 75 members and growing.
02:39	Vorian	Dan's vision on spreading Ubuntu has inspired many on our team to become very active ubuntero's.
02:39	Vorian	He has been very determined to help our LoCo team become an approved team.
02:39	Vorian	Besides all that, Dan Buch is a perfect gentleman.
02:39	jacobmp92	Dan has helped out a ton in our LoCo team, subbing for meetings, controlling sub-teams, etc
02:39	jenda	He hasn't bribed me, I dunno about vorian, though.
02:39	jacobmp92	he has recruited a ton of members
02:42	tsmithe	meatballhat's application was just too good. everyone's lost for words!
02:42	Seveas	it's always like this after someone introduces himself: people are reading wikipages etc.
02:42	Seveas	long silence means lots of good things to read, so is generally a good sign
02:43	jsgotangco	nice pic too
02:43	meatballhat	jsgotangco: much thanks :)
02:43	Seveas	are there other ohio folks here to cheer?
02:43	jsgotangco	although i admit this is the first time i saw a wedding pic in the wiki, nor to a distro one at that
02:44	Vorian	Seveas, the ones who are already cheered :)
02:47	sabdfl	meatballhat: *great* wiki page!
02:47	mako	meatballhat: yes, your work on the team seems really great
02:47	meatballhat	sabdfl: thank you oh so much ... it's good to finally meet you in, er, person  :)
02:47	meatballhat	mako: thank you :)
02:47	nocturn	I have to leave now guys, I'll leave my client logging
02:48	mako	nocturn: sounds gsood, thanks for coming
02:48	nocturn	Thanks Mako
02:48	sabdfl	meatballhat: tell me about diy marketing and the loco teams
02:48	sabdfl	how can we coordinate that relationship
02:48	sabdfl	so the loco teams receive a steady stream of ideas, materials, etc?
02:49	meatballhat	we've been holding off to get the site in a better state of readiness, mostly
02:49	meatballhat	there are so many materials out there
02:49	meatballhat	most of the work we need to do is simply catologing and such
02:50	sabdfl	ok
02:50	sabdfl	do you think it would be possible to have a "marketing top of the week"?
02:50	mako	sabdfl and ubuntugeek and i have been talking about the new cc candidates and people on the cc and member councils, he's got some good poitns we should raise after we're done processing new member candidates
02:50	sabdfl	with some materials etc?
02:50	sabdfl	which loco's could translate and use?
02:51	jenda	(/me notes that a click on diy.devubuntu.com will show the four main categories of items the project will categorize...)
02:51	sabdfl	i think over a year it would be good to take the locos through a cycle of building up media contacts, for example
02:51	meatballhat	sabdfl: absolutely, yes ... we're working to make it easier for volunteers to jump in and contribute within the Branding and Trademark guidelines
02:51	sabdfl	and then feed thema steady stream of news or event related information
02:51	sabdfl	ok
02:51	sabdfl	+1 from me for meatballhat on the back of amazing work with the diy marketing effort
02:52	mako	+1 for me.. in total agreement
02:52	sabdfl	meatballhat: have you chatted with jono bacon much?
02:52	meatballhat	sabdfl: thank you!!  :D
02:52	sabdfl	elmo?
02:52	meatballhat	not much yet, no
02:52	elmo	+1
02:52	meatballhat	I'd like to talk to him a lot more, though :)
02:53	Vorian	congrats meatballhat !!!!
02:53	Seveas	woohoo
02:53	meatballhat	Thank you to everyone!  :)
02:53	sabdfl	meatballhat: bend his ear for a while about diy-marketing + loco's
02:54	sabdfl	i think there's a lot of low-hanging fruit that just needs a well organised wiki page and a weekly mail
</pre><pre>
02:53	Seveas	tsmithe, you're up
02:53	tsmithe	Hi. I'm Toby Smithe, a student at the Judd School in Tonbridge. I've been using Ubuntu as my main system for just over one year now, and various other Linux distributions on and off since about 2001. During my period of consistent Ubuntu exposure, my involvement has increased exponentially. I started off helping out on the forums, reporting off, and am now packaging packaging, learning Python, and triaging those bugs that once upon a time
02:53	tsmithe	I would have been filing.
02:53	tsmithe	I have recently become very involved in the Ubuntu Studio project, and have been packaging various softwares for that, with alsa-firmware, alsa-tools, wired and enblend sitting on REVU; and having created a product in Launchpad, with the Cinelerra-CV upstream SVN being imported, so that we can get to work with fixing licence issues on the way to inclusion in Universe. I have packaged my own application to change the default sound card,  as
02:53	tsmithe	oundconf-gtk, and this is now in Feisty Universe. I wrote it as a result of not being able to find an applet like it in XFCE, which I was using at the time.
02:53	tsmithe	You may have noticed above a number of sound-related packages. I was in the right place at the right time to get involved with helping to maintain ALSA; crimsun and the Ubuntu Studio team wanted packaging alsa-firmware, and I wanted to learn how to do the same. I picked up the package, and crimsun walked me through it. I am now in the process of creating a kernel patch for ac97 regressions since Edgy, and have been triaging various ALSA bu
02:53	tsmithe	gs. I would like my involvement with ALSA and UbuntuStudio to continue, and UbuntuStudio to be a smash hit (however high an expectation this may be).
02:53	tsmithe	hmm
02:53	tsmithe	that was more than it looked earlier :S
02:54	sabdfl	tsmithe: wiki page?
02:54	AstralJava	Vouching for tsmithe here, I'm also in the ubuntustudio team and he's shown a superb effort in Making It Happen(tm). I might even dare to say we'd be in trouble had he not been with us. :)
02:55	tsmithe	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TobySmithe
02:55	tsmithe	sabdfl, ^^ :)
02:55	tsmithe	thanks AstralJava
02:55	_MMA_	Im cheering for tsmithe. He has been a great help with the Ubuntu Studio project. Without him as a packager we would not have progressed as far as we have. He has been very instrumental in getting the project better connected with Launchpad and Bazaar as well.
02:55	PriceChild	tsmithe's been very helpful drafting the "Forum Ambassadors" spec which we're hopefully presenting to the FC in a couple of hours. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumAmbassadors
02:55	tsmithe	_MMA_ and PriceChild, thanks a lot
02:55	Admiral_Chicago	I've also seen tsmithe working on the Ubuntu Studio project, he is a solid member and I was glad to see him apply. His packaging has been very helpful
02:55	tsmithe	Admiral_Chicago, cheers :)
02:56	jenda	Toby has been a good community member, from what I've seen.
02:56	tsmithe	jenda, hehe :)
02:56	Vorian	I here to cheer for tsmithe too, very helpful!
02:56	tsmithe	thank you Vorian
02:58	Seveas	sabdfl/elmo/mako: I have to go now, will do launchpad/wiki/summary duty later today. Just wanted to add my \o/ for tsmithe before I leave
02:58	tsmithe	thanks Seveas :)
02:59	Seveas	sabdfl/elmo/mako: please set the time and date for the next meeting at the end of this one. On the 27th, the TB has #ubuntu-meeting from 21:00 to 23:00, the rest of the day it's free
02:59	sabdfl	thanks Seveas
03:00	mako	Seveas: sounds good
=== Seeker` adds in a cheer for tsmithe
03:00	mako	Seveas: thanks again
03:00	jsgotangco	ok 5 more
03:00	mako	PriceChild, tsmithe: wow, that's great! thanks for helding out on that
03:00	sabdfl	tsmithe: where are you based? in the UK?
03:00	tsmithe	mako, i'll be very happen to see it happen
03:01	tsmithe	sabdfl, yeeah
03:01	mako	tsmithe: i'm impressed with the range of projects you've helped out on in the community
03:01	tsmithe	mako, thanks :)
03:01	tsmithe	i like to do my bit :)
03:01	tsmithe	i get all this for free, kinda feel obliged to give back to it
03:02	Vorian	nicely put tsmithe :)
03:03	sabdfl	+1 from me on the back of toby's excellent work in the forums and ubuntustudio
03:03	sabdfl	just finishing reading some of the links on your wiki page
03:03	tsmithe	thank you, sabdfl
03:03	sabdfl	really superb work!
03:03	sabdfl	impressed you got a response from becta
=== tsmithe chuffed and goes red
03:03	tsmithe	sabdfl, haha - it took some work, though
03:03	sabdfl	keep up the pressure :-)
03:03	tsmithe	i'll try
03:04	mako	absolutey, +1 form me
03:04	tsmithe	yay!
03:04	elmo	+1
03:04	tsmithe	danke, elmo
03:06	sabdfl	welcome aboard!
03:06	tsmithe	thanks ever so much, everyone :D
</pre><nowiki>[[anchor(tsmithe)]]</nowiki><pre>
03:06	sabdfl	who's up next
03:06	mako	alright
03:07	mako	stgraber: you're up
03:07	mako	alright, we can move on
03:08	mako	tmarble: you're up
03:08	tsmithe	oh - and i may have to leave soon, but i want to give a big cheer for Admiral_Chicago's application later
03:08	tmarble	ok, thanks
03:08	mako	maybe sooner rather than later :)
03:08	tmarble	Hello all, I'm Tom Marble and I champion Ubuntu within Sun Microsystems ==> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TomMarble
03:08	tmarble	I promote the choice of Ubuntu with Sun Servers with engineering and the field sales organization
03:08	tmarble	I work with fabbione on the SPARC architecture team
03:08	tmarble	And I provide technical guidance to implement our partnering strategy of making Sun's Free Software (and soon-to-be-Free-Software) available in Ubuntu
03:08	tmarble	I have collaborated with doko on sun-java5 and sun-java6
03:08	tmarble	At the moment I am working with our NetBeans (IDE) and GlassFish (application server) teams to make this software available for Feisty
03:09	mako	fabbione i believe is back to cheer for tmarble, although he pasted some stuff to me earlier
03:09	fabbione	yeah i am here
03:09	fabbione	I fully support Tom Marble to be an Ubuntu memember. He did several non trivial things for the sparc port that are not immediatly noticeable if not because now we can just run on it without problems. He is extremely pro-active in testing sparc and feeding info back to get the stuff done as they should. His contribution has/is relevant. I can't personally speak for his Java packaging skills but his name didn't pass unnoticed in -changes.
03:09	fabbione	He is definetely a +1 for our community.
03:10	doko	we have to invent the MOTM for tmarble (uploading only to multiverse ;)
03:10	mako	tmarble: i believe we met in MTV, no?
03:10	dholbach	(I reviewed another package of his and he did very thorough work, was quick to reply back and easy to work with.)
03:10	tmarble	mako, yes.. i really enjoyed meeting many people at UDS -- from Ubuntu and the community
03:11	sabdfl	awesome wiki page tom
03:11	tmarble	sabdfl, spasibo!
03:11	mako	yes yes, loads of good stuff
03:11	doko	supporting tmarble, we need more people involved with java in the distro. +1
03:11	sabdfl	i have worked with tmarble and been really impressed with how seriously he takes community issues, dynamics and processes
03:11	sabdfl	the fact that he's here reflects that
03:11	mako	tmarble: so is working on ubuntu stuff part of your job?
03:12	mako	i assume yes
03:12	tmarble	mako, this is a very interesting question -- the short answer is YES (stay tuned for the longer answer ;)
03:12	mako	i am personally really happy to see people working on ubuntu as parrt of their job and not working at canonical.. i think that's a really important step for our community
03:13	mako	i know it's happened in other places too, but it's great to see it sort of end in membership
03:14	mako	in the interest of moving forward, i'm happy to give my +1
03:14	tmarble	mako, we see the partnership with Ubuntu as extraordinarily strategic.... it's mutually beneficial at many levels... obviously we benefit from -- as our CEO says -- hardware revenue from those users who want GNU/Linux and our eco-friendly server technology
03:14	sabdfl	tmarble: are you already a MOTU, or is that your next port of call?
03:15	elmo	+1 from me, very glad to see Tom becoming an Ubuntu member, I've enjoyed working with him on the java licensing stuff and seeing him at UDS
03:15	tmarble	more importantly our company realizes the importance of Free Software to developer and user adoption of technology generally --> and this is championed by webink who has had an enormous impact on our direction
03:16	tmarble	sabdfl, i am following the process to become MOTU (MOTM?) to the best of my ability, as indicated by dholbach  (currently not MOTU)
=== mako nods to tmarble
03:16	sabdfl	ok. +1 from me for membership (and thanks for coming here explicitly)
03:16	sabdfl	also, fwiw, +1 from me for MOTU membership, feel free to convey that to dholbach &co
03:16	dholbach	tmarble: it'd be great to have you in the team :)
03:16	tmarble	I have one mini package in REVU at the moment as a technical study (add-apt-key) (no advocators :(
03:17	dholbach	tmarble: i'll take another look at it
03:17	tmarble	and I have one of our "real" packages : NetBeans in REVU -- which we are working aggressively on preparing for multiverse
03:18	sabdfl	welcome aboard
</pre><pre>
03:16	mako	carlos: you're up
03:16	carlos	Hi, My name is Carlos Perell Marn and I would like to become an Ubuntu member.
03:17	carlos	I'm a Launchpad developer working for Canonical Ltd. and my main task is to provide infrastructure to handle internationalisation in Ubuntu, including language packs exports.
03:17	carlos	I'm also current Spanish translation team coordinator, but I'm in the process to move this role to someone else in the team as I don't have much time to translate and handle the tasks required as the coordinator.
03:17	carlos	As part of my work I have a lot of interaction with Ubuntu translators and try to help them in the best way to improve its language support in Ubuntu.
03:17	carlos	After more than 2 years and a half improving Ubuntu localisation, I think is a good time to get a bit more involved in Ubuntu process and that's why I would like to be accepted as an Ubuntu member.
03:17	carlos	You can see my brief wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CarlosPerelloMarin and my Launchpad account at https://launchpad.net/~carlos
03:17	jsgotangco	whoa
03:17	sabdfl	carlos! very happyto see you here :-)
=== pitti cheers for carlos
03:18	carlos	sabdfl: I thought it was time to do it ;-)
03:18	sabdfl	cheers tmarble
03:18	mako	carlos: your wikipage is also a little thin ;)
03:18	sabdfl	his lp account is pretty phat, though!
03:18	carlos	mako: yeah, I noticed that after the first membership review...
03:19	mako	yes, that's very very true... but you have the advantage of having all of us all be extremely familiar with you :)
03:19	carlos	mako: but didn't have time in this hour to 'fix' that :-(
03:19	sabdfl	carlos: what are the biggest community requests for rosetta these days?
03:19	carlos	sabdfl: more translation/traslators review oriented tools
=== mako nods
03:21	carlos	we already added some improvements to the translation review process which seems is exactly what our translators wanted
03:22	mako	carlos: i remember talking to you about membership like 2 years ago :)
03:22	mako	carlos: i'm glad you've followed through and have appreciated your community contributions during the intervening period
03:23	mako	this is sort of one of those "you're not a member already?" situations so i'm happy with a +1 from me
03:24	carlos	mako: well, I guess it was more a problem of me being lazy to do this step than other thing...
03:24	sabdfl	+1 from me on the back of carlos' long dedication to translation in ubuntu and gnome
03:24	elmo	+1
03:26	carlos	thank you guys!
03:25	mako	alright then
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(carlos)]]</nowiki><pre>
03:25	mako	lionel:
03:25	lionel	Hi all
03:26	lionel	I'm Lionel Porcheron from France. I work as a system administrator in a small compagny. I am a Ubuntu user since Hoary, and I sarted to contribute during the Dapper cycle: I started packaging, bug triaging, and writing some documentation. I am also one of the fren
03:26	lionel	ch translator of the Ubuntu Weekly News.
03:26	lionel	Today, I am a contributor to Universe: I do merge/sync, bug fixes and packaging. I also plan to enhance server guide before Feisty string freeze (based on my Wiki contributions).
03:26	lionel	You can find the details of my contributions on my wiki page.
03:26	lionel	LP: https://launchpad.net/~lionel.porcheron
03:26	sabdfl	i will personally congratulate kiko on his sex change and newfound nobility
03:26	lionel	Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LionelPorcheron
03:28	mako	i think this meeting is officially too long :)
03:28	sabdfl	lionel: how is the MOTU process working for you? any suggestions or comments?
03:28	nixternal	1 more after lionel then it is miller time
03:28	mako	sorry lionel :)
03:29	lionel	mako: no pb :)
03:29	sabdfl	mako: i have a call in 30 so let's shoot to be done by then
03:29	lionel	sabdfl: I am planning to apply for MOTU in few week/months
=== zakame cheers
03:32	sabdfl	lionel: but are you finding that community helpful, and responsive?
03:32	lionel	sabdfl: yes, really !
03:32	sabdfl	ok
03:33	sabdfl	i'm happy to +1 on the basis of packaging and documentation contributions, and also UWN translation
03:33	lionel	My current sponsors (crimsun, geser, Adri200) are reallyhelpfull and applied patch in a few ours
03:33	sabdfl	UWN combined with a DIY marketing tip of the week would be amazing...
03:33	sabdfl	cool!
03:33	mako	yes, i'm happy with +1 as well
03:33	elmo	+1
03:34	sabdfl	welcomeaboard, lionel!
03:34	lionel	tanks a lot !
</pre><pre>
03:34	sabdfl	drum roll...
03:34	nixternal	sabdfl, mako, elmo, Seveas: I sent an email in about Admiral_Chicago, but since it didn't kick off at 06:00 Chicago Standard Time, I am here :)
03:34	Admiral_Chicago	sabdfl: you drum rolling for me?
03:35	nixternal	you wouldn't be so lucky :)
=== Jucato_ is a member of the Admiral_Chicago fan club, of which nixternal is the president :)
03:35	Admiral_Chicago	a man can wish nixternal. Should I begin?
03:35	nixternal	wait for the Dr. Mako to call you in :)
03:36	zakame	hahaha
03:36	mako	hold up
03:36	mako	Admiral_Chicago: you're up
03:36	Admiral_Chicago	I am Freddy Martinez, I work heavily in the Mozilla Team and have been working with structuring our team since the very beginning. A major component of my work with the team is new team member education, wiki structure, and general bug work.
03:37	Admiral_Chicago	I work very closely with the Chicago LoCo, event planning, keeping the team running smoothly, and advocacy. I also have worked on things like UWN and spend as much time as possible helping users in #kubuntu and other channels on IRC.
03:37	Admiral_Chicago	In the future I would like to learn packaging, documentation, and work on migration tools to make new users more comfortable with Ubuntu. More information can be found https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreddyMartinez and https://launchpad.net/~freddymartinez9.
03:37	mako	nixternal: i got the email, IIRC
03:38	AlexLatchford	I would like to cheer Admiral_Chicago, he has been a vital part of the ongoing effort into the Mozilla Team, helping to squash loads of bugs and contributing greatly to the wiki efforts :)
03:38	sabdfl	Admiral_Chicago: by the mozilla team, you mean the same one that asac is involved with?
03:38	dfarning_	Freddy has been a great triager for the mozillateam.  While I was gone for the last several weeks,  Freddy stood up and helped get things rolling.  I felt very comfortable asking him to take responsibility for establishing our triaging and new member development processes.
03:38	Admiral_Chicago	sabdfl: exactly.
03:38	asac	I can confirm that his contributions Mozilla bug triage are substantial and of great value so far.
03:38	sabdfl	ok
03:38	nixternal	rock on! Anywho, Admiral_Chicago is w/o a doubt an asset as the email said. He has helped me out tremendously with Ubuntu Chicago, he is a Bug Addict, and he is from Chicago :)
03:38	sabdfl	i've been watching that team, and it's EXACTLY what I would like to see for each and every upstream!
03:38	Admiral_Chicago	sabdfl: the same one you mailed several weeks ago
03:38	sabdfl	very well done to them
03:39	sabdfl	they have done a super job of figuring out how to coordinate well between the distro and upstream
03:39	Admiral_Chicago	the team is a ton of work, i'm trying to structure the team as best as possible
=== Admiral_Chicago is listening to a jono talk about team work ATM
03:39	sabdfl	i would like this for kernel, for X, for OO.o, for Gnome, KDE, XFCE, apache, samba....
=== jsgotangco hides
03:40	nixternal	Isn't KDE the Kubuntu team?
03:40	mako	nixternal: well i don't know about that bug stuff but if he's from chicago... ;)
03:40	nixternal	hehe
03:41	amach1	congrats to every new member...
03:41	nixternal	he will be Ubuntu Chicago Co-Leader hopefully soon
03:41	amach1	am leaving for time being
03:41	amach1	thank u all
03:41	Admiral_Chicago	when you leave town.
03:41	nixternal	when I leave, you become #1 then :)
03:41	nixternal	You are my Dick Cheney, just don't shoot me
03:41	Vorian	lol
=== jsgotangco groans
03:42	nixternal	haha
03:42	mako	anyway there is loads of great stuff here
03:42	mako	and a very nice wikipage
03:42	elmo	+1
03:42	Admiral_Chicago	took it from richard
03:42	nixternal	mako: he stole it from me :)
03:42	nixternal	haha
03:43	mako	+1 from me as well
03:43	nixternal	drum roll....
=== Jucato_ waits...
=== Admiral_Chicago waits
03:45	mako	sabdfl: you're up
03:45	elkbuntu	nixternal, now look what you've done. i bet he's holding out just to irk you.
03:45	nixternal	elkbuntu: I had my Congrats already typed out waiting :)
03:45	Admiral_Chicago	nixternal: listen to melissa
03:46	nixternal	Admiral_Chicago: I have to, she's my loco boss
03:46	dfarning_	One of the funny things about Freddy is how hard he works.  When he starts griping it is time to automate the process;)
03:46	nixternal	lol
03:46	nixternal	dfarning_: I just /ignore
03:46	nixternal	hehe
03:47	mako	ok..
03:47	nixternal	hehe
03:47	mako	is sabdfl has not already turned into a pumpkin...
03:47	nixternal	looks like it
03:48	sabdfl	no, i'm still here
03:48	sabdfl	pumkin time in 15
03:48	nixternal	yay sabdfl isn't a punkin
03:49	sabdfl	+1 from me on the basis of great work with the mozilla team
03:49	nixternal	YAY! Congrats Admiral_Chicago \o/ \o/
03:49	Admiral_Chicago	w00t! thanks everyone.
03:49	sabdfl	Admiral_Chicago: would love you to pick one of those other upstreams and try to lead the same magic there!
03:49	asac	Admiral_Chicago: welcome!
03:49	Vorian	congrats Admiral_Chicago :)
03:49	sabdfl	well done
03:50	Admiral_Chicago	sabdfl: we are working on upstream development, i've spoken to dfarning_ about our contact and getting them more integrated
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(conflict)]]</nowiki><pre>
03:47	mako	there was one final issue
03:48	Admiral_Chicago	which one is that?
03:48	mako	about the CC membmership stuff, ryan troy (ubuntugeek) and a number of other forums council members expressed some concern about having folks on both the CC and the FC
03:48	jsgotangco	and that is?
03:48	nixternal	hehe
03:48	mako	in theory, this would also apply to other team councils
03:48	jsgotangco	yes
03:49	mako	i hope it's ok if i post this stuff
03:49	nixternal	bbiaf
03:49	mako	matthew from the forums council says:
03:49	mako	09:30 <ubuntugeek> First off: congratulations, Mike! What an honor to be nominated.
03:49	mako	09:30 <ubuntugeek> Second: I would tend to agree with Ryan. There would certainly appear to
03:50	mako	09:30 <ubuntugeek> be a bit of a conflict of interest. I totally trust Mike, but it
03:50	mako	09:30 <ubuntugeek> wouldn't project the best appearance and could give rise to some
03:50	mako	09:30 <ubuntugeek> criticism.
03:50	mako	ryan and jdong have said something similar
03:50	mako	and even mikeb expressed some hesitation
03:50	sabdfl	i saw ubuntugeek here a while earlier, is he still around?
03:50	mako	sabdfl: he'll be back in a few, but i don't think we'll overlap
03:50	sabdfl	i personally think there's value in some overlap
03:50	mako	i just sort of wnated to get general reactions from the meeting and then finish it up over email
03:50	mako	sabdfl: oh, i agree
03:50	sabdfl	hence nominating dholbach to both motu council and cc
03:51	sabdfl	and mikeb for both cc and fc
03:51	sabdfl	there is certainly potential for conflicts of interest
03:51	mako	but i think that there's a concern that being your own conflict resolution body and oversight body defeats part of the purpose
03:51	sabdfl	if the cc for example is unhappy with the motu council, then dholbach will need to do a very diplomatic job :-)
03:51	sabdfl	true
03:51	jsgotangco	my opinion is that most would see the potential for conflict rather than the value of overlap
03:51	sabdfl	at the same time, it makes for less of an "us vs them" story
03:51	mako	sure, i think that given the types of candidates, it's primarily a theoretical conflict of interest
03:51	mako	sabdfl: right
03:52	elkbuntu	in such a situation would said individual not step aside for the particular decision?
03:52	sabdfl	they could recuse themselves, yes
03:52	mako	i think that there's a very good chance that this point, mikeb would choose not be on both
03:52	jsgotangco	elkbuntu: thats his choice though
03:52	mako	since a majority of his council has expressed some reservations
03:52	elkbuntu	jsgotangco, of course. bad wording.
03:52	mako	but i won't try to speak for him
03:52	sabdfl	i feel that's just deepening a potential divide, and i would like to bridge it as much as possible
03:53	sabdfl	i'm sure many forums *users* would like to have a forums person on the CC
03:53	mako	sabdfl: oh sure
03:53	sabdfl	and more and more of them are actually members, so could vote accordingly
03:53	mako	sabdfl: i'm not suggesting that we not nominate mikeb
03:53	mako	sabdfl: i'm suggesting that he might choose one or other if presented with both
03:54	mako	and that in the interest of managing percieved conflicts of interest, that's probably a pretty reasonable thing to do
03:54	mako	now, if mikeb would continue going to FC meetings as a CC member, that would be great :)
03:54	mako	he's already doing the inverse
03:55	mako	but part of the team council policy stuff encourages/requires that the councils have reps at the cc meetings, so i think we're probably reasonably covered
03:56	mako	sabdfl: in any case, the fc itself is the one expressing a little concern, so i think that in terms of dividing/bringing-together, it makes sense
03:57	mako	i think that in the curren vision of the CC as largely working above the FC and delegating most work to them, the role is mostly oversight and firefighting.. and in those contexts, it makes sense to not have it be the same people
03:58	dinda	and having different people means greater overall involvement
03:58	dinda	more diverse
03:58	mako	that's the idea
03:59	mako	it has the benefit of makingn it less cabalish :)
03:59	sabdfl	well, i'm not convinced, but i'm happy to try it
03:59	elkbuntu	that context applies to just about any project in the community, really.
03:59	mako	it can still be cabalish
03:59	sabdfl	i think it would be better for the person to recuse themselves from the other group in the case of a conflict of interest
03:59	sabdfl	so, in this case, from the FC
03:59	sabdfl	since sitting on the CC has a broader impact than the FC
04:00	sabdfl	how about that as a proposal, not in general, but for this case?
04:00	dinda	mako: I thought you talked about the overlap issue at UDS?
04:00	mako	dinda: i don't recall ever thinking about it this hard
04:00	sabdfl	that mike, if he's elected to the CC, would recuse himself from the FC when he felt that appropriate?
04:00	mako	dinda: we talked alot about how to handle precieved conflicts of interest
04:01	dinda	mako: for some reason I recall you drawing a diagram on the board
04:01	sabdfl	i'd rather deal with a conflict of interest when it arises, than lose mikeb from either body "just in case"
04:01	mako	sabdfl: right, but if he's going to recuse himself from anything he migth have to vote on as part of the cc, it's going to make him ineffective
04:01	elkbuntu	the fact that mike himself had reservations makes me confident he would identify appropriate situations anyway
04:01	mako	sabdfl: someone who brings up an issue to the fc, and has a result they are not happy with is not going to be happy bringing it up before the same person the next week
04:02	tsmithe	am i too late to say well done to Admiral_Chicago? /me hopes not... well done Admiral_Chicago!
04:02	mako	elkbuntu: i also trust mike
04:02	sabdfl	well, in the case of judicial systems, a superior court would certainly consider the opinion of the original court
04:02	sabdfl	though they might not go with it
04:02	dinda	and it's not the same judges
04:03	mako	sabdfl: right, but you're not allowed to sit on both courts
04:03	sabdfl	true
04:03	mako	sabdfl: and if you were involved in the case before, you have to recuse yourself
04:03	sabdfl	ok
04:03	sabdfl	well, then i would be happy with that as a guideline
04:03	sabdfl	that mike would recuse himself from issues that he's already discussed as part of the FC
04:03	mako	sabdfl: in fact, people interviewing to become high judges don't answer many questions based on the fact that they may have a case on them oin the future and don't want to color their "objectivity"
04:03	sabdfl	that way we still get the benefit of his presence for other issues
04:04	sabdfl	mako: i thought it was just because they didn't want to demonstrate their prejudices before confirmation ;-)
04:04	mako	sabdfl: that's the real reason, not the accepted justification :)
04:05	sabdfl	if the rest of the CC prefers for MikeB not to stand for the CC, then i won't nominate him
04:05	sabdfl	personally, i think he's a great candidate, and would like him to be in the list because forums are important
04:05	mako	sabdfl: i agree
04:05	sabdfl	i think it's mistaken to *reduce* the ability of the best Forums community leaders to stand for the CC
04:05	sabdfl	and i'm confident we can deal with any conflicts that arise if and when they do
04:05	mako	i see a couple choices
04:06	mako	one if that we adopt a policy like the one your suggesting
04:06	mako	which with a larger council might be possible
04:06	mako	and the second is that we continue to nominate people but give them a choice of where they want to be
04:07	mako	i honestly don't know mike thinks he's most useful
04:07	mako	but i'd love it if he continues to come both meetings regardless of what happens
04:07	mako	we don't need to decide something right here.. i'm interested to hear what the folks on the FC who have expressed concern with this think about the first proposal
04:07	mako	i'll email this now before i run off to my lab
04:07	sabdfl	ok
04:08	forumsmatthew	I am on the FC, may I give a quick bit of input?
04:08	sabdfl	go for it
04:08	mako	forumsmatthew: yes yes :)
04:08	mako	please
04:08	forumsmatthew	I like the idea of Mike serving on both
04:08	mako	forumsmatthew: didn't realize you were here :)
04:08	forumsmatthew	if he recuses himself from
04:08	forumsmatthew	any issues related to forums governance
04:08	forumsmatthew	etc
04:08	mako	forumsmatthew: i would want to make it policy
04:08	mako	nobody is allowed to weigh in on the same issue twice
04:09	mako	forumsmatthew: but your statement is actually a bit broader
04:09	mako	forumsmatthew: since it would also cover things like approving fc members
04:09	mako	which we would definitely need him to recuse himself from
04:09	mako	but there's still a potential for people being uncomfortable i think
04:09	forumsmatthew	I totally agree
04:10	forumsmatthew	I said so to Mike
04:10	mako	when it comes to a body that he sits on approving his position in another body
04:10	forumsmatthew	it's a difficult question
04:10	mako	forumsmatthew: think about it :)
04:10	mako	forumsmatthew: not just you, but the whole fc, and mike
04:10	mako	it's better to deal with this issue before something comes up :)
04:11	elkbuntu	mako, maybe set a meeting for a week's time, to let people think it over?
04:12	sabdfl	forumsmatthew: the FC charter says that the CC will seriously consider the views of the FC and other Forums staff and members in making FC nominations
04:12	sabdfl	what beter way to do so than to have a voice on the CC itself?
04:12	forumsmatthew	sabdfl, good point
04:12	sabdfl	statistically, a person is likely to be in the majority on the FC
04:13	sabdfl	if that same person is on the CC, then that majority gets even more weight
04:13	sabdfl	i can imagine that there are some hard issues where recusing would be wise
04:13	sabdfl	but i'm not convinced it should be a fixed policy
04:13	sabdfl	other than that it should be mentioned as a graceful way to deal with significant tension and cases where others on either side feel there's a conflict
04:14	sabdfl	i guess i'm willing to be trusting because i have some say in the appointments on both bodies and it would be a personal failure to end up creating a bad situation
04:15	sabdfl	ok
04:15	sabdfl	let's leave it to settle
04:15	sabdfl	hi ryan
04:15	ubuntugeek	hello
04:15	sabdfl	you got here just in time
04:16	sabdfl	mako raised the discussion you have been having with him
04:16	sabdfl	several folks weighed in
04:16	sabdfl	we'd like to hear your thoughts
04:16	ubuntugeek	Great
04:16	ubuntugeek	Well, as I stated to Mako and Mike I feel there is a strong conflict of interested in serving on both councils.
04:17	ubuntugeek	If the FC did not report directly to the CC then there wouldn't be an issue. But even if there is an objective stance taken on situations that could arise there is alot of room for error there.
04:18	mako	ubuntugeek: yes, there are two proposals, i'm summarizing them in an email
04:19	mako	ubuntugeek: one would have people choose one council to serve on
04:19	mako	an exception could probably made for the TB since it's non-overlapping and not under the CC
04:19	ubuntugeek	I think even having a CC memeber as part of staff could possibly slew any constructive results if there was an issue that was taken to the CC
04:19	mako	the second would establish that nobody gets to vote any issue that relates to their team council
04:20	mako	or that team's perview
04:20	ubuntugeek	Well, I really think the first choice is the only and best choice.
04:20	mako	they could of course argue for a position, but wouldn't get to make a decision
04:21	ubuntugeek	What you are asking could really open a huge can of "worms" so to speak.
04:21	mako	it's certainly the more conservative choice in this regard
04:22	mako	ubuntugeek: well, i don't think that CC forums staff member should be banned any more than FC staff members should be
04:23	ubuntugeek	banned?
04:23	mako	barred
04:23	mako	kept from happening
04:23	mako	not banned in the forums or irc sense :)
04:23	mako	heh
04:23	mako	but
04:24	ubuntugeek	Right, but then basically that person is a gratified FC member.
04:24	mako	i do think that we'd expect such a person to recuse themselves from issues where their involvement would imply a conflict of interest
04:25	ubuntugeek	It can be perceived as a "go" around to slide step the FC authority, and frankly makes us look like wish washes.
04:25	mako	ubuntugeek: i don't understand what you mean
04:25	mako	what is?
04:25	ubuntugeek	if a CC member was a forum staff member
04:26	mako	we're talkinga bout expanding the CC to at least six people
04:26	mako	one cc member isn't particularly important alone
04:26	forumsmatthew	u-g, I actually think if he were to recuse himself from any topic relating to forums governance it could be a good thing to have someone directly involved in forums leadership on the council
04:26	mako	especialy if they recuse themselves from issues related to the forums
04:27	ubuntugeek	forumsmatthew: sure, however will that happen? can we be guaranteed? No.
04:27	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: what if i were to nominate you for a future CC?
04:27	forumsmatthew	there would be some insights gained by the CC that are not necessarily available currently
04:27	mako	ubuntugeek: everyone on the cc should be very involved in some area of ubuntu, ideally in a leadership role
04:27	sabdfl	would you stand down from the FC?
04:27	mako	ubuntugeek: mdke is very involved in the doc team and the italian team and other things
04:27	ubuntugeek	sabdfl: I wouldnt accept the position. My focal point is the forums.
04:27	sabdfl	it seems wrongto me that the FC folks who have a broader interest and impact in ubuntu should have to stop working in the FC in order to contribute to the CC
04:28	mako	ubuntugeek: but we're not asking him to quit those things to take on a cc position, in fact, that'w hy we're doing it!
04:28	sabdfl	having overlap is a good way to get the FC's views represented
04:28	ubuntugeek	I really have to disagree.. And this is why we never come to any complete and strong resolutions. You guys don't listen.
04:29	mako	ubuntugeek: this is a reasonable conversation, there's no need to conclude that
04:29	mako	ubuntugeek: nobody has decided anything
04:29	ubuntugeek	I'm just stating a fact Mako. I am not being negative.
04:30	mako	we're having a conversation with you now because we care about your opinion on this, it's not fair to say that we don't listen
04:30	ubuntugeek	Thats fine move along then.
04:31	ubuntugeek	The point I am trying to make is simple, there is a conflict of interested in serving on both councils.
04:32	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: can you give us an example of that?
04:33	sabdfl	as i was saying earlier, statistically, any member of the CC is likely to be in the majority on any issue
04:33	mako	sabdfl: the one i'm concerned with is approving members of the FC
04:33	sabdfl	so the odds are that the majority view also gets expressed by a CC member, if that person is also on the CC
04:34	sabdfl	mako: because that would give one member of the FC a "stronger" say in FC nominations than the others?
04:34	ubuntugeek	You guys win.. I wont agrue this point anymore.
04:34	mako	sabdfl: taht's right
04:34	mako	ubuntugeek: i'm arguing your position here man
04:35	mako	sabdfl: even if that person does not vote (and they shouldn't), one would conclude that they would be more likely to be reapproved for the FC than other FC members
04:35	mako	sabdfl: whether or not that's true, its very hard to avoid that appearance
04:36	sabdfl	right
04:36	mako	sabdfl: it seems difficult to imagine that a cc/fc member would not be approved by the fc for the cc
04:36	mako	we could argue that's because the cc is approved by all members and so is, as a result, going to always be trustworthy
04:36	sabdfl	you mean, for the fc by the cc :-)
04:36	mako	yes, that's what i mean
04:37	mako	i think that recusing from forums business handles almost every other situation pretty well
04:37	sabdfl	i would say that the confirmaiton process of being on the CC is such that a person who makes it is someone who would also do well on any other specific community body
04:37	mako	that's true
04:38	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: this is not about winning or losing, or giving up, it's about a structure that works and lets the best people have the biggest impact everywhere
04:38	ubuntugeek	I really think its a mistake and is not a well thought out process.
04:38	mako	MikeB-: the meeting is basically over, we're just discussion dual memership now
04:38	sabdfl	MikeB-: i've deferred another conversation to keep up with this one
04:38	mako	ubuntugeek: that'w why we're talking about it now
04:39	ubuntugeek	mako: with all do respect you guys are talking and telling how its going to work.
04:39	sabdfl	i am happy with mako's suggestion that people on the CC should recuse themselves from decisions where there is a feeling of a conflict of interest w.r.t. another community position
04:39	mako	ubuntugeek: we don't know how it's going to work, so i find that unlikely
04:39	ubuntugeek	I see.
04:39	mako	ubuntugeek: i proposed two options, that was one
04:40	mako	the other was that folks should choose between one or the other
04:40	mako	ubuntugeek: and i've been laying out the argument for that over the last 10 minutes
04:41	mako	ubuntugeek: i'm trying to argue for the situation you've suggested. go easy on me :)
04:41	ubuntugeek	mako: Ok
04:42	ubuntugeek	On your second suggestion, in theory it could work. But I think its a hard line for anyone to walk to be objective in that sense.
04:43	ubuntugeek	Suggestion One: choose between the teams.
04:44	jenda	ubuntugeek: in politics, both schemes work just as well... or not ;)
04:45	ubuntugeek	jenda: I am really not interested in politics. I am interested in protecting the forums.
04:45	MikeB-	wow, it has been hours since I caused this much trouble:)
04:45	Seeker`	If you make someone choose between the teams, one of the teams may be "losing out" on a valuable member of their team
04:45	ubuntugeek	seeker: thats life.
04:46	ubuntugeek	seeker: it isnt all gravy.
04:46	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: we've identified the case where new FC members are appointed. what other cases do you think might be a case where the forums need protection?
04:47	Seeker`	ubuntugeek: But that may damage the team that you want to protect
04:47	mako	MikeB-: i just sent the proposals to the fc list
04:47	mako	MikeB-: and the cc list
04:47	ubuntugeek	sabdfl: honestly, our issues are dynamic I cannot give a exact case. I do however feel strong that if a person was on the FC and the CC and a issue from the forums was presented to the CC objective or not there is a room for serious errors and judgements if a person was serving on both teams.
04:49	mako	ubuntugeek: ok, i totally agree that nobody should be aloud to vote twice on any issue
04:50	mako	ubuntugeek: i think that folks in the forums will be worried about appealing anything to what appears to be an overlapping board
04:50	forumsmatthew	mako: you're saying if they have given input as an FC member then they don't do so as a CC member, right?
04:51	sabdfl	conversely, they have already expressed concern about appealing to a board which "doesn't understand their issues"
04:51	ubuntugeek	mako: agreed, but it goes beyond just a vote. For example, would the CC consult said FC member for information about the subject? Could that FC be objective enough to give a whole hearted opinion to the CC on the situation?
04:51	mako	forumsmatthew: taht's right
04:51	jenda	forumsmatthew: that sounds very reasonable to me.
04:51	mako	ubuntugeek: well the CC should be consulting the whole FC on any issue that involves the forums
04:51	mako	ubuntugeek: that was part of the deal :)
04:52	ubuntugeek	mako: sure, i am not saying it isnt :)
04:52	mako	ubuntugeek: i think for internal forums issues that pass the cc, the fc/cc member could reperesent the issue, or otheres from the fc could
04:52	mako	but the fc member wouldn't vote as part of the cc
04:53	mako	on that issue
04:53	sabdfl	that would be fine
04:53	sabdfl	by me
04:53	mako	ubuntugeek: i'm just trying to feel you out on this
04:53	sabdfl	i think that as soon as this happens the FC will say "hey, we want our guy to vote"
04:53	ubuntugeek	mako: sure its hard to explain over irc
04:53	mako	the only potential problem i see
04:53	MikeB-	agree, that is how business and other board do it
04:53	sabdfl	but i'm happy to have a guideline that someone on the FC (or MC) recuses themselves from decisions over that body in their CC capacity
04:54	mako	actually, the thing i was thinking about wasn't really a problem
04:55	mako	ubuntugeek: we could make it a rule
04:56	mako	the leadership coc says to delegate decisions to others where there is a percieved conflict
04:56	sabdfl	right
04:56	mako	if we think this will be very common, that person will become a less valuable cc member
04:56	mako	or if we think the other issues i've brought up are problematic enough
04:57	ubuntugeek	mako: thats alot of rules and whatifs floating around :)
04:57	mako	those would be reasons to go the more conservative route of not allowing people on both teams
04:57	mako	ubuntugeek: well, constructing the justification is
04:57	mako	ubuntugeek: the rule as i'd write it is pretty simple
04:58	ubuntugeek	mako: ok spell it out..
04:58	mako	"Nobody who serves on the CC and a team council can vote, as part of the CC, on any issue in the domain of their team council."
04:58	sabdfl	i would put it different;y
04:59	mako	sabdfl: go  give a exact case. I do however feel strong that if a person was on the FC and the CC and a issue  from the forums was presented to the CC objective or not there is a room for serious errors and judgements if a person was serving on both teams.
04:59	sabdfl	a member of the CC should recuse themselves from decisions by the CC which are a ruling on a prior decision of a subordinate team
04:59	mako	hmm
04:59	mako	i think that was another past problem
05:00	sabdfl	if the issue is presented to the FC *first*, and then re-presented to the CC, then I can understand the potential for concern (though I'll say again that *I* would want more representation, not less, on the CC if I was in the shoes of the FC)
05:00	MikeB-	The CC, FC, Tech Board  can vote out a member if needed, before their tearm is up on the team?
05:00	mako	sabdfl: of which they are member
05:01	mako	sabdfl: you forgot that part :)
05:01	mako	sabdfl: the one you listed basically invalidates the need for CC i think
05:01	mako	by charter, anny forums issue needs to be presented to the fc first :)
05:02	ubuntugeek	sabdfl: this would be about if that person can be objective enough. More representation is good, but if that person cannot be objective then whats the point?
05:03	ubuntugeek	I'm not saying that Mike couldn't be objective, I just saying "what if" and could apply to anyone.
05:03	mako	ubuntugeek: that's right, i hope MikeB- realizes that nobody is doubting his own credulity here :)
05:04	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: to me, the fact that someone is on the CC suggests that the whole community has faith in them
05:04	ubuntugeek	sabdfl: sure but thats not the point.
05:04	sabdfl	it's certainly *a* point ;-)
05:04	sabdfl	look, i don't want this to be a contentious issue
05:04	sabdfl	i think MikeB- would be a superb CC member
05:04	sabdfl	and would make good decisions that affect the whole community
05:05	ubuntugeek	sabdfl: well not really, because even if the community has faith, it doesn't guarantee that person will be objective.
05:05	sabdfl	and i am surprised that ubuntugeek is arguing against having someone with strong forums roots on the CC
05:05	mako	ubuntugeek: right, that's undestood
05:05	mako	ubuntugeek: i'm actually not worried that they won't be objective, but that people will feel that they might not be objective
05:05	sabdfl	i think the reality is that nobody likes being overrules
05:05	sabdfl	d
05:05	ubuntugeek	sabdfl: no reason to turn this around on me. I am mearly pointing out a flaw in your process.
05:06	forumsmatthew	Is objectivity always desirable? Don't we want people to represent their interests (assuming of course they ultimately have the community's best interests at heart)
05:06	sabdfl	the hierarchical structure we have *inevitably* means that groups that have decisions delegated to them are at risk of having another group disagree in a binding way
05:06	sabdfl	that creates tension
05:06	sabdfl	regardless of who's on that other group
05:06	mako	ubuntugeek: right, are you still uncomfortable with the position with the proviso that i listed?
05:06	sabdfl	that's just the nature of things
05:06	sabdfl	it seems to me that overlap at least has the benefit of ensuring that insight is there when needed
05:07	sabdfl	if the CC were to overrule the FC on something, that will bite regardless, frankly
05:07	ubuntugeek	sabdfl:  and thats still a huge problem to me.
05:07	sabdfl	i think it more likely that the FC would be satisfied with decisions taken by a CC that has people who understand the subtleties of the forums world
05:08	sabdfl	and the same is true of *any* community in the project
05:08	mako	ubuntugeek: that's why we are working really hard to creates structures that prevent that from happening
05:08	ubuntugeek	mako: so why is mark threatening it?
05:08	sabdfl	in fact, i woul dbe concerned if any one large constituency had too much weight on the CC, regardless of the fact that we want all CC folks to represent the whole community's interests and not just one part of it
05:08	mako	ubuntugeek: i didn't see it as a threat, just a point
05:08	ubuntugeek	mako: from my point of view its a threat.
05:09	sabdfl	ubuntugeek: that is the nature of oversight, it's pointless to discuss all the times we agree, the times that *count* are the times we *disagree*
05:09	mako	ubuntugeek: well, sabdfl the benefit of the doubt or we'll never move forward
05:09	mako	ubuntugeek: but it seems that having someone from the forums on the CC could only help the situation
05:09	sabdfl	in a judicial system, the appeals that have real consequences are those that change the previous verdict
05:10	mako	ubuntugeek: but threats or no threats aside.. in the interest of moving forward
05:10	mako	ubuntugeek: would a committement like the one i suggested resolve your concerns?
05:11	mako	ubuntugeek: by removing the person with a conflict from any decision where it would play a role
05:11	sabdfl	this is a really interesting situation
05:11	mako	ubuntugeek: and allowing forums input into other higher level sort of things (i.e., approval of changes to policy, the coc, etc)
05:11	sabdfl	mako: would you suggest that, in this case, the relevant CC member recuse themselves if *any* FC member raised such an objection?
05:12	sabdfl	because then the CC member will always be asked to recuse themselves, by folks on either side of the FC, if there was *any* dissent in the FC decision
=== sabdfl doesn't know enough jurisprudence
05:12	mako	sabdfl: i would hope they would recuse themselves in situations where no fc member made an objection
05:12	sabdfl	funny, i tend to go with the idea that more insight helps make a better decision
05:12	mako	sabdfl: i'm as worried about non-fc members who brought issues before the fc and then appealed to the cc as anything else
05:12	sabdfl	unless personal issues are at stake
05:12	mako	i'm not suggesting a lack of insight
05:13	mako	i think every fc member, including someone who could potentially be on the cc, should help inform every cc decision regarding the forums
05:13	mako	i'm suggesting that they should cast a vote on an issue they've already cast a vote on
05:13	mako	or have a known position on
05:14	mako	it's a not fair hearing if you know how the person feels ahead of time
05:14	mako	sorry, i'm suggesting that they should not cast a vote on an issue they've cast a vote on before
05:16	mako	a hearing before a person who already has decided is a kangaroo court
05:17	ubuntugeek	need to catch up. was afk
05:17	mako	ubuntugeek: cool
05:18	sabdfl	mako: are you happy with us narrowing the scope of the conflict down to specific decisions under review by a higher council?
05:19	mako	sabdfl: sort of...
05:19	ubuntugeek	mako: so you suggesting is to write a rule/policy that if a issue arises in said persons 'domain'  that person would only weigh opinions inside that 'domain' ?
05:19	sabdfl	i'm not happy with the domain view, because it means that the person would be excluded from many of the discussions where they would be most valuable
05:20	sabdfl	i can see the argument against "reviewing a decision they took before"
05:20	mako	sabdfl: i said vote, not discuss
05:20	mako	sabdfl: or i meant to
05:20	MikeB-	sabdfl: Voice but no vote
05:20	mako	sabdfl: ok ok, but there's another important case
05:20	mako	sabdfl: which is appointing team council members
05:20	sabdfl	we have very, very few discussions on the cc that are not open to every voice, in any event
05:20	forumsmatthew	mako, I think we have a few more minutes. this is important and we are getting close to some sort of consensus I think
05:20	mako	sabdfl: it's not in the domain of the tc, but it's very important
05:21	sabdfl	ok, i agree there too
05:21	mako	ubuntugeek: more or less, we're discussing the extend of what domain means right now
05:21	ubuntugeek	mako: Ok
05:21	sabdfl	agree it is contentious, though i would still fall in favour of participation there on the basis of valuable insight
05:21	mako	ubuntugeek: sabdfl and i agree that applies to at least any decision made a by the fc, and the fc membership
05:21	Rootvzla	hi mako
05:22	sabdfl	but i can live with a guideline of recusing in cases of (a) reviewing an FC decision and (b) FC nominee confirmations
05:22	mako	ubuntugeek: because by charter, forums stuff percolates up through the fc, that's probably effectively the same thing
05:22	sabdfl	this should all be generalised so it is not specific to the FC
05:22	mako	sabdfl: yes, that's right
05:22	sabdfl	ok
05:22	ubuntugeek	mako: thats fine
05:22	sabdfl	ubuntugeek?
05:22	mako	ubuntugeek: anything else you want to add to that
05:22	ubuntugeek	nope
05:22	mako	ok, if you think of something, or if others on the fc do, let us know
05:23	mako	that's just the two areas for abuse and conflict of interest i see
05:23	mako	but there mayb e more
05:23	ubuntugeek	can this be summarized in an email for the record?
05:23	sabdfl	we can amend the guidelines as those arise
05:23	mako	yes, absolutely
05:23	mako	to both of you
05:23	mako	i'll send an email
05:23	sabdfl	MikeB-: would you be happy to serve on both bodies, given these guidelines?
05:24	MikeB-	yes
05:24	sabdfl	ok
05:24	sabdfl	mako: where would be the most appropriate place to enshrine this guideline?
05:24	sabdfl	team councils?
05:24	mako	sabdfl: part of the team council document i guess?
05:24	sabdfl	what's the interaction with the TB (which I do see as reporting to the CC as much as to me)
05:26	sabdfl	i would hate to lose the TB's views if things get escalated to the CC
05:26	mako	the tb and the cc have non-overlapping magisteria, no?
05:26	sabdfl	binary drivers are a classic case where both are required
05:27	mako	both view ares required
05:27	sabdfl	ultimately i think that's a cc decision, but we had tb on the call for certain
05:27	mako	yes yes
05:27	mako	if its ultimately the cc's decision, it's not an issue
05:27	mako	the only real question is, if it's a joint vote, does someone get counted twice
05:28	mako	but i don't think that's likely, or perhaps even possible
05:28	sabdfl	right - we just did it as a joint discussion
05:28	mako	yah
05:28	sabdfl	ok, let's not worry about it - long meeting already
05:28	mako	that's good enough for me
05:28	mako	today at least :)
05:28	sabdfl	i've thought of nominating TB folks to CC but it's too much time
05:28	mako	ubuntugeek, MikeB-: thanks :)
05:28	mako	sabdfl: i'm sure they appreciate it
05:28	sabdfl	ok. mako will you draft something and send to CC / FC?
05:29	MikeB-	thanks mako
05:29	mako	yeah, something short
05:29	sabdfl	cool
05:29	mako	forumsmatthew: thanks for being patient
05:29	mako	forumsmatthew: we'll  shut up now
05:29	forumsmatthew	mako, you're welcome. This was important and affected us as well
05:30	sabdfl	ok, thanks very much all
05:30	sabdfl	elmo, cjwatson, happy?
05:30	elmo	yes
05:30	sabdfl	well, respond to the email :-)
05:30	sabdfl	ok
</pre>
