{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=06&day=16&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jun 16th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* sbeattie
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* mdeslaur
* tyhicks
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Kent Baxley (kentb) provided patches for openwsman for Ubuntu 14.04 LTS (LP: #1319089). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job!
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** ofono profiles
** pending updates
** patch pilot
** June work items
** process sprint outcomes
** sbeattie
** gcc (PIE/amd64) - debugging testsuite failures, continue rebuilds. Should be done this week
** !AppArmor
*** patch review
*** push pending patches
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** triage on Monday for awareness (mdeslaur will do the rest of the week)
** python-django
** !AppArmor patch review
** June work items
** chrisccoulson
** thunderbird publication
** finish Bug:1312082 - "Stop using deprecated compositing paths" (almost finished)
** perform oxide reviews
** pick next item of high priority oxide list
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-06-16-16.37.html
