{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* T Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

Please feel free to add more items to the agenda for the next meeting. We will discuss them in turn when it arrives.

<nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Meeting-IRCCommands|Handy copy and pastable meeting commands here!!!]]</nowiki>.
=== Minutes ===

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 28 Jan at 16:03 &mdash; 16:37 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-01-28-16.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

==== Trusty Development ====
The discussion about "Trusty Development" started at 16:06.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:09)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server 
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1243076 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/maas/+bug/1248283 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxc/+bug/1263738 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/horizon/+bug/1198021 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/websockify/+bug/1231970 
* '''Blueprints''' (16:19)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-curtin 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-openstack-charms 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-lxc 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-mysql-alternatives 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-cloud-init 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-cloud-images 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-juju 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:29.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:29.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)" started at 16:31.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)" started at 16:33.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:33.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:34.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:35.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* yolanda_ (83)
* jamespage (20)
* smoser (17)
* ubottu (7)
* rbasak (6)
* meetingology (3)
* gaughen (3)
* zul (3)
* psivaa (2)
* rharper (2)
* arosales (1)
* caribou (1)
* smb (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:03 <yolanda_> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan 28 16:03:33 2014 UTC.  The chair is yolanda_. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03 <meetingology> 

 16:03 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:03 <rharper> o/

 16:03 <yolanda_> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <yolanda_> so... agenda doesn't seem to be updated, any pending topics?

 16:03 <arosales> o/

 16:04 <yolanda_> anything to comment there?

 16:05 <smoser> o/

 16:06 <yolanda_> nothing? i will be moving to next point

 16:06 <yolanda_> #topic Trusty Development

 16:06 <yolanda_> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule

 16:07 <yolanda_> how is that progressing?

 16:07 <yolanda_> any comments about it?

 16:08 <yolanda_> jamespage, smoser ^

 16:08 <jamespage> yolanda_, sorry - binging not on

 16:08 <smoser> feature freeze is coming.

 16:08 <smoser> be aware of that.

 16:08 <jamespage> yolanda_, indeed

 16:08 <yolanda_> feature freeze on february

 16:09 <yolanda_> so, let's look at bugs

 16:09 <yolanda_> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:09 <yolanda_> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:09 <yolanda_> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1243076

 16:09 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1243076 in mod-auth-mysql (Ubuntu Trusty) "libapache2-mod-auth-mysql is missing in 13.10 amd64" [High,Confirmed]

 16:10 <yolanda_> any progress on that?

 16:11 <yolanda_> next one ... https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nova/+bug/1062336

 16:11 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1062336 in nova (Ubuntu Trusty) "nova-compute expects libvirtd group" [High,Triaged]

 16:11 <yolanda_> jamesepage, i see this is a won't fix ?

 16:11 <jamespage> I think its done

 16:11 <jamespage> yes

 16:12 <jamespage> marked as so

 16:12 <jamespage> forgot to reference the bug btlot

 16:12 <yolanda_> bug report isn't refreshing properly then?

 16:12 <yolanda_> https://bugs.launchpad.net/maas/+bug/1248283

 16:12 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1248283 in juju-core (Ubuntu Trusty) "Juju deploy of Charm in MAAS fails because dbus fails" [High,Triaged]

 16:13 <yolanda_> anything about that?

 16:14 <yolanda_> next one ... https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/horizon/+bug/1259166

 16:14 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1259166 in horizon (Ubuntu Trusty) "Fix lintian error" [High,Triaged]

 16:14 <yolanda_> zul ^

 16:14 <zul> nope

 16:15 <yolanda_> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxc/+bug/1263738

 16:15 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1263738 in lxc (Ubuntu Trusty) "login console 0 in user namespace container is not configured right" [High,Triaged]

 16:16 <yolanda_> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/horizon/+bug/1198021

 16:16 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1198021 in horizon (Ubuntu Trusty) "/static apache2 alias should probably be /horizon/static" [Medium,Triaged]

 16:16 <yolanda_> jamespage, this is a won't fix?

 16:16 <jamespage> no

 16:16 <jamespage> we should probably fix that

 16:16 <yolanda_> we should update bug comments then

 16:17 <yolanda_> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/websockify/+bug/1231970

 16:17 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1231970 in websockify (Ubuntu Trusty) "[FFe] nova-novncproxy requires websockify > 0.5 - please sync from unstable" [Medium,Triaged]

 16:17 <yolanda_> jamespage, that's done?

 16:18 <jamespage> yes

 16:18 <jamespage> marked as fix released

 16:18 <yolanda_> ok, let's continue

 16:19 <yolanda_> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:19 <yolanda_> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html

 16:19 <yolanda_> how are blueprints progressing?

 16:19 <yolanda_> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-curtin

 16:19 <yolanda_> smoser ^

 16:19 <smoser> :)

 16:19 <smoser> yeah. so that one needs some work.

 16:20 <yolanda_> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-openstack-charms

 16:20 <smoser> it is siltl planned for 14.04

 16:20 <yolanda_> smoser, are you postponing it?

 16:20 <yolanda_> the curtin one

 16:21 <smoser> no.

 16:21 <smoser> it is still planned for 14.04

 16:21 <gaughen> yolanda_, smoser needs some prodding to update his blueprints ;-)

 16:21 <smoser> well, he also has to do some work.

 16:21 <gaughen> :-)

 16:21 <yolanda_> :)

 16:21 <smoser> i can update the progress, but unfortunately it wont get the code written.

 16:21 <yolanda_> next one https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-openstack-charms

 16:21 <zul> time to crack the whip

 16:21 <rharper> +1

 16:21 <yolanda_> i'm currently working on rabbit active/active, lot of work to be done

 16:22 <yolanda_> jamespage, do you think we are ok with time?

 16:22 <gaughen> o/

 16:22 <jamespage> yea

 16:22 <jamespage> beta-1 is ok

 16:23 <yolanda_> next one ... https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-ceph

 16:23 <yolanda_> jamespage ^

 16:23 <jamespage> all ok

 16:23 <jamespage> just waiting for firefly to release upstream now

 16:24 <yolanda_> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-lxc

 16:24 <jamespage> the fastcgi items will likely disappear at that point as radosgw is going through a re-design to not be mod_fastcgi

 16:24 <yolanda_> hallyn is not present, so i'll skip this

 16:25 <yolanda_> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-mysql-alternatives

 16:25 <yolanda_> jamespage ^

 16:25 <yolanda_> i see a blocked work item there?

 16:25 <jamespage> oh - going OK - but some delay on pxc due to licensing issues

 16:26 <yolanda_> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-cloud-init

 16:26 <yolanda_> smoser ^

 16:27 <yolanda_> next one .. https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-openstack

 16:27 <yolanda_> zul ^

 16:27 <zul> its fine

 16:27 <smoser> i'll look at the cloud-init bluerpint now. utlemming an d i have made some progress t

 16:27 <yolanda_> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-cloud-images

 16:27 <yolanda_> smoser again

 16:27 <smoser> same. will take al ook now

 16:28 <yolanda_> last one

 16:28 <yolanda_> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-1311-juju

 16:28 <yolanda_> jamespage ^

 16:28 <yolanda_> seems mostly done?

 16:28 <jamespage> ish - we have it building across most archs yet

 16:29 <jamespage> but I suspect some work todo to support anything other than arm + x86

 16:29 <yolanda_> ok

 16:29 <yolanda_> let's change topic

 16:29 <yolanda_> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:29 <caribou> yolanda_: nothing on my radar today

 16:29 <yolanda_> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:30 <yolanda_> nothing there?

 16:30 <psivaa> im in a sprint this week and nothing much to report except:

 16:30 <psivaa> lamp smoke has one failure and the tomcat server has the same failure in the smoke tests

 16:31 <yolanda_> ok

 16:31 <yolanda_> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:31 <smb> Not much. Has there been any progress on the sru reviews for iscsitarget and drbd8 for P (or questions I missed). sforshee and me sprinting, too, this week.

 16:32 <yolanda_> any feedback for smb?

 16:33 <yolanda_> mm, let's move then

 16:33 <yolanda_> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:33 <rbasak> No updates from me this week. Any questions?

 16:33 <yolanda_> so..

 16:33 <yolanda_> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:34 <yolanda_> Cape Town sprint of course

 16:34 <yolanda_> anything else?

 16:34 <rbasak> FOSDEM this weekend

 16:34 <rbasak> I'll be there, along with marcoceppi.

 16:34 <yolanda_> nice

 16:34 <yolanda_> #topic Open Discussion

 16:35 <rbasak> Marco is doing a talk on service orchestration, I believe, in the configuration management room.

 16:35 <yolanda_> anything to comment?

 16:35 <yolanda_> ok, so let's finishg

 16:35 <yolanda_> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:36 <yolanda_> should we have meeting next week? smoser, jamespage, gaughen, are in Cape Town

 16:36 <rbasak> I'd say skip it, unless anyone objects.

 16:36 <smoser> i think i agree with rbasak

 16:36 <rbasak> It'll be quite quiet if we do.

 16:36 <smoser> there is a first time for everything

 16:37 <smoser> :)

 16:37 <yolanda_> then, next meeting will be on Tuesday 11th of February

 16:37 <smoser> yeah, lets re-convene in 14 days.

 16:37 <smoser> thanks yolanda_

 16:37 <jamespage> ok

 16:37 <jamespage> thanks yolanda_

 16:37 <yolanda_> np

 16:37 <yolanda_> so let's end here

 16:37 <yolanda_> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
