{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=08&day=11&year=2014&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Aug 11th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': MarcDeslauriers (mdeslaur)

=== Attendance ===
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* jdstrand

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
 Thanks to the following people for their help on security updates for these community supported packages last week:
** Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) provided a debdiff for trusty for krfb (LP: #1352421)
** Scott Kitterman (ScottK) provided a debdiff for trusty for reportbug (LP: #1353046)
** James Page (jamespage) provided packages for trusty for mysql-5.6 (LP: #1330168)
** Reinhard Tartler (siretart) provided a package for trusty for libav (LP: #1354755) 
 Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand (gave outside of meeting)
** weekly role: community
** patch pilot
** !AppArmor testing
** pending updates
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor
*** land abstract socket mediation
*** !AppArmor
** DBus merge
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor
*** land abstract socket mediation
*** !AppArmor
** jjohansen
** !AppArmor
*** abstract sockets: userspace and kernel
** sarnold
** weekly role: triage
** 2 pending MIRs
** Round 2 of filemanager review
** chrisccoulson
** Oxide reviews
** Oxide RTM items
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-08-11-16.36.moin.txt
