{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Dev Week -- Meet launchpadlib -- jml -- Fri, Jan 29 ===
UTC
<pre>
[17:59] <cjwatson> I'll hand over now to Jonathan Lange, a gentleman and a scholar, who's going to be talking about launchpadlib.
[17:59] <jml> cjwatson, why thank you
[18:00] <jml> as before, please stop me if I go too fast, or hassle me if I go too slow
[18:00] <jml> You might know already, but pretty much no matter what kind of Ubuntu development you are doing, you'll have to interact with Launchpad
[18:00] <jml> Interacting with Launchpad is fun and all, but sometimes you'll want a computer to do the interaction for you
[18:00] <jml> Say you want to suck out some of the data and make a pretty graph
[18:00] <jml> or you want to build a site like http://qa.ubuntu.com/
[18:00] <jml> This session should help you do that...
[18:00] <jml> Before we begin, you should install the 'python-launchpadlib' package now.
[18:01] <jml> Confirm that it works by running:
[18:01] <jml> $ python
[18:01] <jml> and then
[18:01] <jml> >>> import launchpadlib
[18:01] <jml> >>> launchpadlib.__version__
[18:01] <jml> you should get output like:
[18:01] <jml> '1.5.1'
[18:01] <jml> if it's an earlier version, then you need to either update the package, upgrade to a newer version of Ubuntu, or find the PPA.
[18:01] <jml> A moment for those installing the package
[18:01] <jml> Moment over.
[18:01] <jml> This session is going to have four parts: theory, example, gotchas and future.
[18:02] <jml> = 1. Theory =
[18:02] <jml> The Launchpad developers implemented an API for three reasons:
[18:02] <jml> 1. To let you get at your data
[18:02] <jml> 2. To allow you to do project-specific policy stuff
[18:02] <jml> 3. To watch people do cool things we would never have thought of.
[18:02] <jml> (I'm a Launchpad developer, hence the 'we')
[18:02] <jml> We decided to implement the API using something called RESTful Architecture
[18:02] <jml> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer
[18:03] <jml> This means that Launchpad's APIs are actually language neutral
[18:03] <jml> in theory, you can write code to control Launchpad in any language you want
[18:03] <jml> without screenscraping!
[18:03] <jml> You do HTTP requests with operations like GET, POST, PUSH and DELETE and send and receive JSON content that's described by a WADL file
[18:03] <jml> WADL == http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Application_Description_Language
[18:03] <jml> Which is all nice and wonderful but you don't really have to care about it, because there's also a Python library
[18:03] <jml> called "launchpadlib"
[18:04] <jml> (have you installed it yet?)
[18:04] <jml> If you don't care at all about Python, now's the time to stop following this session and go to https://help.launchpad.net/API instead
[18:04] <jml> Because I'm about to go into the example.
[18:04] <jml> = 2. Example =
[18:04] <jml> You can follow along from this example by getting the branch at lp:~jml/+junk/bugstats
[18:04] <jml> You do that by running 'bzr branch lp:~jml/+junk/bugstats'
[18:04] <jml> The way to follow along is to change into that branch, and then run 'bzr revert -r 1'
[18:04] <jml> and then when I say "Next revision", do the same thing with "-r 2" instead
[18:04] <jml> and so on
[18:05] <jml> bzr revert -r1
[18:05] <jml> The branch contains a single file 'bugstats.py'
[18:05] <jml> If you look at that file in your favorite text editor, you'll see that it's very very simple
[18:05] <jml> It imports sys, defines a main function that does nothing, and then runs that main function.
[18:05] <jml> Go ahead and run it now
[18:05] <jml> $ python bugstats.py
[18:05] <jml> It should do absolutely nothing, fairly quickly
[18:05] <jml> (at the speed of PYTHON!)
[18:05] <jml> OK. Next revision
[18:06] <jml> bzr revert -r2
[18:06] <jml> (sorry alt-tab fail)
[18:06] <jml> Have a look at this version of bugstats.py. You might need to reload it in your editor.
[18:06] <jml> This is an extremely simple launchpadlib script
[18:06] <jml> It logs in to launchpad and prints out the title of bug number one
[18:06] <jml> I'll break down exactly what the script does in a moment.
[18:06] <jml> But first, you should run the script.
[18:06] <jml> $ python bugstats.py
[18:06] <jml> When you run it, an authorization page will open up in your web browser
[18:07] <jml> This is very important, this is how your Launchpad web credentials get applied to the application
[18:07] <jml> It's done using oauth, which I don't understand.
[18:07] <jml> http://oauth.net/ and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OAuth are probably good places to start though.
[18:07] <jml> For now, pick "Read non-private data"
[18:07] <jml> Then, switch back to your terminal and press enter.
[18:07] <jml> The script should then print the title of bug number one.
[18:07] <jml> Run the script again
[18:07] <jml> Notice that launchpadlib has cached your credentials
[18:08] <jml>     launchpad = Launchpad.login_with(APP_NAME, SERVICE_ROOT, CACHE_DIR)
[18:08] <jml> ^^^ that's the line of code what did it
[18:08] <jml> if you look at the script...
[18:08] <jml> you'll see I've imported 'os' and 'sys', which are standard Python modules.
[18:08] <jml> I've also imported 'Launchpad' and 'STAGING_SERVICE_ROOT' from launchpadlib
[18:08] <jml> Then I've defined an application name, a caching directory and a service root
[18:08] <jml> APP_NAME = 'jml-bug-stats'
[18:08] <jml> CACHE_DIR = os.path.expanduser('~/.launchpadlib/cache')
[18:08] <jml> SERVICE_ROOT = STAGING_SERVICE_ROOT
[18:08] <jml> There's nothing special about the names of the variables, I've just made them ALL CAPS to hint that they are constants
[18:08] <jml> APP_NAME is the name of the application. launchpadlib & Launchpad use this as a marker for authorization. You authorize an application based on its *name*.
[18:09] <jml> Go to https://staging.launchpad.net/people/+me/+oauth-tokens and search for "jml-bug-stats"
[18:09] <jml> you'll only find it if you actually ran the script
[18:09] <jml> if you have run the script, you should find it there, saying when you authorized it and what you authorized it to do
[18:09] <jml> You could revoke the authorization if you wanted to, but you shouldn't do that just now
[18:09] <jml> Anyway, that 'jml-bug-stats' is the app name used in the script.
[18:10] <jml> SERVICE_ROOT is _which_ Launchpad.net instance to use
[18:10] <jml> does everyone know about staging.launchpad.net, edge.launchpad.net and so forth?
[18:10] <jml> ...
[18:10] <jml> that's a yes.
[18:10] <jml> Today, we're using staging. Testing against staging is a good idea, since it's impossible to mess up your live production data by messing with staging.
[18:10] <jml> CACHE_DIR is the place where launchpadlib stores cached credentials and cached json objects
[18:11] <jml> It's worth having a poke around in it sometime
[18:11] <jml> most apps use ~/.launchpadlib/cache
[18:11] <jml> for reasons that escape me
[18:11] <jml> If you run ls -l ~/.launchpadlib/cache/api.staging.launchpad.net/credentials/ you should see a file called 'jml-bug-stats'
[18:11] <jml> That file contains the cached credentials for this app
[18:11] <jml> If you delete it, you'll have to re-authorize the application
[18:11] <jml> moving on to the script proper.
[18:11] <jml> The main() function has us logging into Launchpad and printing a bug title
[18:11] <jml> login_with is a handy convenience function that logs in with an application name, but looks in the cached credentials first to see if you've already logged in. It returns an instance of 'Launchpad'
[18:11] <jml> 'launchpad' is an object with a bunch of pre-defined top-level collections, and is the starting point of any launchpadlib app.
[18:12] <jml> https://help.launchpad.net/API/launchpadlib#The%20top-level%20objects will list all of them for you
[18:12] <jml> Here we use 'bugs', get the bug with id '1' and print its title.
[18:12] <jml> $ python bugstats.py
[18:12] <jml> Microsoft has a majority market share
[18:12] <jml> Easy
[18:12] <jml> Now for something a bit more useful
[18:12] <jml> Next revision
[18:12] <jml> bzr revert -r3
[18:12] <jml> $ python bugstats.py
[18:12] <jml> Please specify a project and a username.
[18:13] <jml> $ python bugstats.py ubuntu jml
[18:13] <jml> Jonathan Lange has had 2 bugs fixed on Ubuntu
[18:13] <jml> it shows the number of bugs someone has had fixed
[18:13] <jml> useful, huh?
[18:13] <jml> take a look at the code
[18:13] <jml> It's got a work-around for a bug in launchpadlib to get the length of a returned collection.
[18:13] <jml> I don't really understand why the bug isn't fixed yet, since it's got to bite almost everyone who writes a non-trivial launchpadlib application.
[18:13] <jml> Anyway, this script is more advanced than the last one.
[18:14] <jml> look at ...
[18:14] <jml>     pillar = launchpad.projects[pillar_name]
[18:14] <jml> "Pillar" is Launchpad developer jargon for a distribution, project or project group. e.g. ubuntu, gnome-do or gnome
[18:14] <jml> you can try running the script with your username and fave project
[18:14] <jml> The script takes the pillar name from the command line, along with a bug reporter name, finds all of the 'fix released' bugs and then prints out a friendly message.
[18:14] <jml>     reporter = launchpad.people[reporter_name]
[18:14] <jml>     fixed_bugtasks = pillar.searchTasks(
[18:14] <jml>         bug_reporter=reporter, status=['Fix Released'])
[18:15] <jml> If I run it with this:
[18:15] <jml> $ python bugstats.py launchpad-code jml
[18:15] <jml> I get:
[18:15] <jml> Jonathan Lange has had 164 bugs fixed on Launchpad Bazaar Integration
[18:15] <jml> To me, the most interesting thing about this script (apart from the cool data) is "how did I figure out to call 'searchTasks'?"
[18:15] <jml> Well, each of the Launchpad instances has generated API documentation at +apidoc
[18:15] <jml> e.g. https://staging.launchpad.net/+apidoc/
[18:15] <jml> or e.g. https://edge.launchpad.net/+apidoc/
[18:15] <jml> I happen to know a bit about the Launchpad object model, and knew I'd need to get a bunch of "bug tasks"
[18:16] <jml> A bug task is that row in the table that has an assignee, status, importance etc. A bug can have many bug tasks.
[18:16] <jml> I went to the API documentation page and had a look around for something that would return a list of bug tasks.
[18:16] <jml> I found "searchTasks", and then gave it a try and it worked
[18:16] <jml> The API documentation also told me that people have display_name attributes and that projects do too.
[18:16] <jml> Note that the API documentation is *not* launchpadlib documentation. It's generic REST API documentation.
[18:16] <jml> That means you often need to translate from the abstract REST docs into concrete Python. It's not that hard.
[18:16] <jml> Anyway the script is pretty simple
[18:16] <jml> <geser> QUESTION: does python-launchpadlib also clean up the cache of old unused files?
[18:16] <jml> geser, No, it does not.
[18:17] <jml> geser, as far as I'm aware, there's absolutely no functionality in launchpadlib for removing cache files under any circumstances
[18:17] <jml> The next revision is something a little bit more complex
[18:17] <jml> bzr revert -r4
[18:17] <jml> This script does almost exactly the same thing, except it tells you how successful the reporter was as a percentage of bugs fixed over bugs filed
[18:18] <jml> The new code is the total_bugtasks line, which finds all bugs of any status
[18:18] <jml>     fixed_bugtasks = pillar.searchTasks(
[18:18] <jml>         bug_reporter=reporter, status=['Fix Released'])
[18:18] <jml>     total_bugtasks = pillar.searchTasks(
[18:18] <jml>         bug_reporter=reporter,
[18:18] <jml>         status=[
[18:18] <jml>             "New",
[18:18] <jml>             "Incomplete",
[18:18] <jml>             "Invalid",
[18:18] <jml>             "Won't Fix",
[18:18] <jml>             "Confirmed",
[18:18] <jml>             "Triaged",
[18:18] <jml>             "In Progress",
[18:18] <jml>             "Fix Committed",
[18:18] <jml>             'Fix Released'])
[18:18] <jml> zoiks!
[18:18] <jml> (I thought I had my newlines done differently)
[18:19] <jml> I had to specify each status manually, because 'searchTasks' defaults to only finding open bugs
[18:19] <jml> Then there's some code to calculate a percentage and print it out nicely
[18:19] <jml>     percentage = 100.0 * length(fixed_bugtasks) / length(total_bugtasks)
[18:19] <jml>     print "%s is %.2f%% successful on bugs in %s" % (
[18:19] <jml>         reporter.display_name, percentage, pillar.display_name)
[18:19] <jml> Let's try running it!
[18:19] <jml> $ python bugstats.py ubuntu jml
[18:19] <jml> Jonathan Lange is 22.22% successful on bugs in Ubuntu
[18:19] <jml> $ python bugstats.py launchpad-code jml
[18:19] <jml> Jonathan Lange is 56.16% successful on bugs in Launchpad Bazaar Integration
[18:20] <jml> Again, you can try it with yourself, or with a friend, or with cjwatson
[18:20] <jml> That's all I have for the example.
[18:20] <jml> = 3. Gotchas =
[18:20] <jml> There are quite a few things that can trip you up with the Launchpad API
[18:20] <jml> We've already bumped into a couple of them: it's got bugs.
[18:20] <jml> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/launchpadlib/ for more info on that
[18:21] <jml> The second is that even though it does have documentation, it's not always easy to apply to what you need.
[18:21] <jml> (wtf, "Colin Watson is 79.65% successful on bugs in Ubuntu"!)
[18:21] <jml> I'm going to pimp http://help.launchpad.net/API again, since there really is a fair chunk of good documentation there.
[18:21] <jml> https://help.launchpad.net/API/Examples is good, as is https://help.launchpad.net/API/launchpadlib
[18:21] <jml> However, the docs often aren't up to scratch.
[18:22] <jml> There is only one way for them to get better
[18:22] <jml> People like your good selves must ask questions, get answers, and then edit the help.launchpad.net wiki.
[18:22] <jml> Another gotcha is error messages.
[18:22] <jml> Because launchpadlib is a very, very thin wrapper over a generic RESTful client library, if ever you get an exception raised, it's going to be really unhelpful.
[18:22] <jml> https://help.launchpad.net/API/Examples#Get%20a%20useful%20error%20message%20from%20launchpadlib shows the work-around.
[18:22] <jml> I think I filed a bug about that.
[18:23] <jml> hmm.
[18:23] <jml> there's another gotcha, which is *performance*
[18:23] <jml> For a lot of the things you probably want to do, you'll end up writing code that looks like this:
[18:23] <jml>   for thing in bunch_of_things:
[18:23] <jml>       thing.do_something_on_launchpad()
[18:23] <jml> Code like this is really really slow
[18:23] <jml> It'll do an HTTPS request for each 'thing'
[18:23] <jml> We'd like to have some way of reducing that load, but we don't have any good answers yet
[18:23] <jml> Only two more gotchas left :)
[18:23] <jml> Not everything that's in Launchpad itself is exposed via the API.
[18:23] <jml> Sorry.
[18:23] <jml> It's generally either really, really easy to expose stuff over the API or almost impossible.
[18:24] <jml> If the thing you want falls into the first category, you can probably patch Launchpad yourself.
[18:24] <jml> In any case, *file a bug*. Everything that's not exposed over the API is a bug.
[18:24] <jml> Last gotcha: testing launchpadlib apps is hard
[18:24] <jml> jkakar has done some work on this recently
[18:24] <jml> but I haven't had a chance to look at it.
[18:24] <jml> That's it on the gotchas: bugs, docs, errors, potato programming, unexposed methods, testing
[18:25] <jml> = 4. Future =
[18:25] <jml> There are plenty of other examples of launchpadlib apps out there
[18:25] <jml> bughugger uses launchpadlib (https://launchpad.net/bughugger)
[18:25] <jml> quickly has some templates for using launchpadlib (https://launchpad.net/quickly)
[18:25] <jml> The code that puts branches in https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu is done entirely with launchpadlib (we talked about those branches last session!)
[18:25] <jml> There's also a stack of projects that are part of a group called 'lpx' that you can find at https://launchpad.net/lpx
[18:25] <jml> and at http://help.launchpad.net/API/Uses there's even more stuff
[18:25] <jml> If ever you need help, ask on #launchpad or #launchpad-dev on freenode or send an email to launchpad-users@lists.launchpad.net
[18:26] <jml> That's it from me.
[18:26] <jml> Questions?
[18:26] <jml> Cool ideas for launchpadlib programs?
[18:26] <jml> General complaints about Launchpad that I can respond soothingly to?
[18:27] <jml> By "complaint", I of course meant "suggestion for improvement"
[18:27] <jml> <vocx> QUESTION: so, Python plays a HUGE part in Ubuntu, no? Other scripting won't feel left out?
[18:27] <jml> A lot of Ubuntu stuff is written in Python.
[18:28] <jml> As I mentioned earlier, you don't *have* to use Python to control Launchpad, but it makes it a lot easier.
[18:28] <jml> <jönöbacon>  QUESTION: Can you make more examples for python-snippets happen?
[18:29] <jml> jonobacon, I can point you at https://help.launchpad.net/API/Examples again, I guess :)
[18:29] <jml> <kamalmostafa> QUESTION: Is there a way to access two JSON values in one "call"... I.e.   launchpad.people[reporter_name].latitude   gets the latitude -- is there a way to also get the longitude at the same time?
[18:30] <jml> kamalmostafa, I'm fairly sure that if you get the object first, then subsequent attribute access doesn't do a separate webapp call.
[18:30] <jml> so...
[18:30] <jml> reporter = launchpad.people[reporter_name]
[18:30] <jml> reporter.latitude, reporter.longtitude
[18:30] <jml> <vocx> QUESTION: is there a need to worry about python 3.0 breaking something?
[18:30] <jml> vocx, wrt launchpadlib or wrt Ubuntu more generally?
[18:31] <jml> vocx, launchpadlib is a Python 2 application. It hasn't been tested with Python 3.
[18:32] <jml> vocx, I'm not the launchpadlib maintainer, but I tend to think of python3 as a completely different language. if a program works on both 2 and 3 it's a happy accident
[18:33] <jml> vocx, no plans to port to 3 yet.
[18:33] <jml> vocx, I guess we'd start doing that when Ubuntu stops providing Python 2
[18:34] <jml> are there any other questions?
[18:34] <jml> QUESTION: Can we convince jonobacon to use metal umlauts in his name so my friends can go back to calling me Jono?
=== jml is now known as joneaux
=== joneaux is now known as jml
[18:37] <jml> Last chance for questions folks
[18:37] <jml> remember you can get the code for the example by 'bzr branch lp:~jml/+junk/bugstats'
[18:37] <jml> and that the folk on #launchpad-dev are helpful and friendly and want more people doing stuff with launchpadlib
[18:38] <jml> ok folks
</pre>
