{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

TZ UTC+6
{{{
09:00	mdz	let's begin
09:00	mjg59	Evening
09:00	mdz	I updated the agenda to reflect the reorganization of Launchpad teams which was carried out by the new MOTU council
09:00	mdz	(thanks sistpoty)
09:01	mdz	I believe we have one applicant for -core-dev
09:01	mdz	asac: are you here?
09:02	mdz	asac's application was deferred from the last meeting because his sponsor wasn't present, and he hadn't had much experience in Ubuntu yet
09:03	mdz	ok, he doesn't seem to be present
09:03	mjg59	Hm.
09:03	mdz	is there a MOTU council representative here?
=== ajmitch is here
09:03	Keybuk	but he has such a wonderful level of contribution to Fooix the Wonder Toaster!
09:03	ogra	Fooix the Wonder Toaster ?
09:04	mdz	ajmitch: are there any MOTU applications to be considered by the tech board?
09:04	Keybuk	ogra: LP beta joke
09:04	ajmitch	mdz: we haven't had any applications come to us yet, though we're still waiting on a mailing list to handle them
09:04	ogra	Keybuk, ah ...
09:04	mdz	ajmitch: IIRC we referred some applicants to the Council a couple of meetings ago
09:05	mdz	but the council wasn't quite operational yet
09:05	mdz	so please check back with them now that you're ready to process them
09:05	mdz	ajmitch: feel free to forward them by email to technical-board@ so that they don't block until the next TB meeting
09:06	mdz	the first and only discussion item is one I added
09:06	mdz	Technical Board nominations
09:07	ajmitch	sure
09:07	sabdfl	actually, it would be great to make that std operating procedure
09:07	sabdfl	so those applications don't block onmeetings
09:07	sabdfl	unless an application raises a question the TB feels should be discussed here
09:07	ajmitch	I think that was what was originally proposed
09:07	sabdfl	it should be possible to just +1 it and be done
09:08	mdz	yes, we agreed that
09:08	mdz	just reconfirming
09:09	mdz	so, tech board nominations.  sabdfl, I think this ball is in your court.  how can we help to move it forward?
09:10	sabdfl	my apologies
09:11	sabdfl	if we want to just nominate and have confirmation votes, we are good to go
09:11	mdz	I'm happy to assist with the legwork if that helps
09:11	sabdfl	if we want more of a runoff, then we need some testing of an appropriate voting stuff in lp
09:11	sabdfl	let's just do the easy thing
09:11	mdz	I think that nominate+confirm is appropriate
09:11	sabdfl	ok, it makes for less exciting voting though :-)
09:11	sabdfl	but it's fine for this round
09:11	sabdfl	we've delayed enough
09:12	mdz	it's also what's written in the governance documents ;-)
09:12	mdz	if you would like to send me your nominees, I can set up the polls and announce the vote
09:13	mdz	sabdfl: sound ok?
09:13	sabdfl	super
09:13	sabdfl	thanks mdz
09:13	mdz	great
09:14	mjg59	Sounds good to me
09:14	mjg59	asac: Still not around?
09:14	sabdfl	mdz: i think we have enough wiggle room in the governance docs to have a runoff
09:14	sabdfl	it's still nominate+confirm
09:14	sabdfl	just a "not everyone gets confirmed" twist
09:15	sabdfl	if you think we should make that possibility explicit, we should do it sooner rather than later
09:15	sabdfl	discuss at CC
09:15	mdz	I'll ping asac and remind him to follow up on his application
09:16	mdz	I expect pitti and cjwatson will have feedback on his work so far
09:16	mdz	in fact, if they're here, I'd be happy to consider him in absentia
09:16	ajmitch	could ubuntu-dev please be set to a restricted team now?
09:17	mdz	ajmitch: oh, good idea
09:17	mjg59	Pitti doesn't seem to be around
09:17	mjg59	cjwatson: Ping?
09:17	mdz	ajmitch: I'll also update the documentation on UbuntuDevelopment
09:18	ajmitch	thanks
09:18	ajmitch	& we'll chase up those proposed members on ubuntu-dev
09:18	mdz	cjwatson was around a minute ago, but seems to be no longer
09:19	mdz	that's all for developer applications.  is there any other business?
09:19	sabdfl	ajmitch: really happy to see you guys kicking into action!
09:19	mjg59	None from me
09:19	Keybuk	just a confirmation; do existing TB members need to re-apply for nomination?
09:19	ajmitch	it's good to be organised & kicking universe into shape :)
09:21	sabdfl	Keybuk: i don't think so
09:21	mdz	Keybuk: I wouldn't expect so
09:21	mdz	this is meant to be a fairly stable group
09:22	sabdfl	mdz: mostly
09:22	sabdfl	mjg59: incidentally, DO you disappear when turned 90 degrees?
09:22	mjg59	sabdfl: Depends on how good your eyes are
09:22	sabdfl	passed the latest test, but i could see the nurse was being nice about it
09:22	mdz	sabdfl: stable in composition, not necessarily in individual psychology
09:23	sabdfl	that's what teams are for - makes for a more interesting whiskey collection
09:23	sabdfl	ok, thanks all
09:23	mdz	yep, sounds like we're done
09:23	sabdfl	cheers all!
09:23	mdz	actions: mdz to summarize meeting for UWN, mdz to remind asac et al about his core-dev application
09:24	mdz	actions: sabdfl to email nominations to mdz
09:24	mdz	mdz to create polls, announce confirmation vote
09:24	ogra	he left in time :)
09:24	mdz	anything else?
09:24	mdz	ok, adjourned. thanks all
09:25	mdz	(hmm, UWN seems to be dead)
09:25	mdz	I'll just mail ubuntu-devel instead}}}
