{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Review ACTION points from previous meeting

    matsubara to chase someone that can update release bugs report: http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

        I filed https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-qa-website/+bug/1398443 for this, which has been fixed by Brian Murray and the report now works -- 2014-12-02 matsubara 

V Development

Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
Ubuntu Server Team Events
Open Discussion
Announce next meeting date, time and chair

    ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

Keep in mind we're ~month to vivid feature freeze

Clarification that openvswitch dkms modules are no longer needed  >= 3.13

Openstack charm feature freeze 2015-01-15

===== Meeting Actions =====

gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, January 20th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. 

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan 13 16:00:22 2015 UTC.  The chair is gnuoy. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <gnuoy> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:00] <gnuoy> All I have is:
[16:00] <gnuoy> beisner: establish new qa-team point of contact for server team
[16:00] <gnuoy> did that happen ?
[16:00] <coreycb> o/
[16:01] <beisner> o/
[16:01] <beisner> hi
[16:01] <beisner> gnuoy, gaughen has initiated that
[16:01] <arges> o/
[16:01] <kickinz1> p/
[16:01] <smb> o/
[16:01] <kickinz1> sorry gnouy, I'm the responsible for that :(
[16:01] <gnuoy> gaughen, does it require a meeting Aaction?
[16:01] <gnuoy> * action
[16:01] <gnuoy> kickinz1, not just you, my fail too
[16:02] <gnuoy> ACTION: gaughen  establish new qa-team point of contact for server team
[16:02] <gnuoy> #action  gaughen  establish new qa-team point of contact for server team
[16:02] <meetingology> ACTION: gaughen  establish new qa-team point of contact for server team
[16:02] <gnuoy> #topic Vivid Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Vivid Development
[16:02] <gnuoy> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
[16:03] <gnuoy> Not much in Jan by the looks of it
[16:03] <gnuoy> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:03] <gnuoy> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:03] <matsubara> o/
[16:03] <hallyn> ~month to feature freeze...
[16:03] <gnuoy> ok, we have 5
[16:04] <gnuoy> hallyn, ta
[16:05] <gnuoy> smoser, does Bug #1387340 need anython special for vivid ? looks like fix to cloud-init is there
[16:05] <ubottu> bug 1387340 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Vivid) "'output' directive not honored (/var/log/cloud-init-output.log missing)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1387340
[16:06] <gnuoy> Same question for Bug#1404311
[16:06] <gnuoy> Bug #1404311
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1404311 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Vivid) "gce metadata api doesn't properly stream binary data" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1404311
[16:06] <gnuoy> Bug #1409639 looks to be one you raised jamespage
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1409639 in juju-core (Ubuntu Vivid) "juju needs to support systemd for >= vivid" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1409639
[16:06] <smoser> gnuoy, they'll need to get uploaded to vivid, yes.
[16:07] <jamespage> o/
[16:07] <jamespage> indeed I did
[16:07] <gnuoy> smoser, do you know if that's likely to happen soonish ?
[16:07] <jamespage> there is a bit of a focus on the switch to systemd this month
[16:07] <rharper> \o
[16:07] <smoser> probably should. :)
[16:07] <jamespage> gnuoy, that work is inflight with juju-core - we've asked it get backport to 1.22
[16:08] <gnuoy> ok
[16:08] <gnuoy> jamespage, and Bug #1388077 seems to be one of yours also
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1388077 in nova (Ubuntu Vivid) "Parallel periodic instance power state reporting from compute nodes has high impact on conductors and message broker" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1388077
[16:09] <gaughen> o/
[16:09] <gnuoy> jamespage, coreycb, will we automagically get the fix to  Bug #1388077 when we next do a juno pkg update ?
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1388077 in nova (Ubuntu Vivid) "Parallel periodic instance power state reporting from compute nodes has high impact on conductors and message broker" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1388077
[16:10] <jamespage> gnuoy, its fixed in juno and patched in in kilo as well
[16:10] <gnuoy> ok
[16:10] <coreycb> gnuoy, I think yes then
[16:10]  * jamespage does bug housekeeping
[16:11] <gnuoy> That leaves us with Bug #1385851 then
[16:11] <ubottu> bug 1385851 in openvpn (Ubuntu Vivid) "OpenVPN only supports TLS v1.0" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1385851
[16:12] <gnuoy> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:12] <gnuoy> "Everybody review and update blueprints"
[16:12] <gnuoy> with that taken as read, anything else?
[16:12] <gnuoy> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html
[16:12] <gnuoy> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server
[16:13] <gnuoy> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:13] <gnuoy> Anything for/from caribou
[16:14] <gnuoy> ?
[16:14] <jamespage> gnuoy, you might want to update the openstack charms blueprint (hint)
[16:14] <gnuoy> jamespage, with what in particular?
[16:14] <jamespage> gnuoy, any updates on work items
[16:14] <jamespage> right now have we done any charm work this cycle?
[16:14] <gnuoy> well, yes.
[16:14] <jamespage> 0/51 tasks completed
[16:15] <jamespage> :-)
[16:15] <gnuoy> I know, the blueprint haven't done an upstanding job of reflecting work to date
[16:16] <gnuoy> but I agree, updates to reflect reality would be good
[16:16] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (not psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (not psivaa)
[16:17] <gnuoy> we should probably skip this until we have a rep
[16:17] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:17] <smb> On our side we had talked about dkms modules and reviewing stuff with 3.19. For openvswitch I was wondering whether there still will be something with Vivid. I mean there isn't anything in the archive, yet. But I am not sure this is intentional or not. Though I think from the openstack use case the in-kernel module was good enough. jamespage what would you say? Also, just looking at testing it seems it is/was fail
[16:17] <smb> ing somehow for Utopic too. Which we may or may not care to care.
[16:18] <jamespage> smb, it was intentional - its really not required for >= 3.13
[16:18] <jamespage> I do have an in-tree ovs bug tho
[16:18]  * jamespage looks
[16:18] <jamespage> bug 1408972
[16:18] <ubottu> bug 1408972 in linux (Ubuntu) "openvswitch: failed to flow_del (No such file or directory)" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1408972
[16:19] <smb> jamespage, Yeah I just got pinged by jsalisbury to help him review his dependencies
[16:19] <jamespage> smb, awesome
[16:19] <smb> Apart from that anybody has something he want to refresh my memory with
[16:20] <gnuoy> ... doesn't look like it
[16:20] <gnuoy> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:20] <gnuoy> Openstack charm feature freeze on Thursday
[16:21] <jamespage> \o/
[16:21] <jamespage> 15.01 here we come!
[16:21] <gnuoy> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:22] <gnuoy> Anything to openly discuss?
[16:22] <gaughen> gnuoy, and there's the systemd virtual sprint
[16:22] <gaughen> this Thurs/Friday
[16:22] <gaughen> sorry missed the events topic
[16:22] <gnuoy> it whizzzzzzed past
[16:23] <gaughen> that is all I have to gnuoy
[16:23] <gaughen> some good discussion today
[16:23] <gnuoy> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:23] <gnuoy> 2015-01-20 16:00 UTC
[16:23] <jamespage> ooo my birthday!
[16:23] <gnuoy> Looks like coreycb is next weeks winner
[16:23] <gnuoy> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:23] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Jan 13 16:23:56 2015 UTC.
[16:23] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-01-13-16.00.moin.txt
</pre>
