{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Release critical bugs =====

mathiaz mentioned two bugs he ran into during his testing. Launchpad bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub/+bug/360832|360832]]</nowiki> (unable to boot from the second disk of a RAID1 array - error 21) and <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kvm/+bug/360825|bug 360825]]</nowiki> (kvm 0.84 doesn't create three drives in the guest). There was some discussion with kirkland about reproducing them so that their importance for jaunty can be set.

ScottK highlighted <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/360689|bug 360689]]</nowiki> (Default Ubuntu configuration is backscatter source in Jaunty). He asked ivoks for a quick review and may fix the problem between RC and release.

===== ISO testing =====

mathiaz reminded that 9.04 RC is scheduled for Thursday. ubuntu-server isos are currently being rolled out. Testing coordination happens on the <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|Iso testing tracker]]</nowiki>. There are 15 test cases for each iso  and each testcase has a detailed description of what needs to be done. Any help in this area is welcome.

===== Ideas for Karmic =====

mathiaz announced that while the last push for Jaunty is done ideas for the next release cycle can already be gathered. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/IdeaPool|Server team Idea pool wiki page]]</nowiki> is the place to add new ideas.

===== Clamav in Jaunty =====

ScottK mentioned that the latest version of clamav had been uploaded to Jaunty. Packages for the backports repository have also been prepared.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 21st at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:01. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <mathiaz> welcome to yet another amazing Ubuntu Server team meeting
[16:02] <mathiaz> All the exciting stuff we'll talk about today can be found online at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:03] <zul> isnt walk like egyptian by the banshees
[16:03] <zul> bangles i mean
[16:03] <mathiaz> last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090407
[16:04] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Documentation
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Documentation
[16:04] <mathiaz> sommer: anything to report wrt to jaunty?
[16:05] <sommer> mathiaz: don't think there's anything new... everything should be good to go
[16:05] <mathiaz> great.
[16:05] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Release critical bugs
[16:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Release critical bugs
[16:05] <mathiaz> As you may know we're in final freeze now
[16:06] <mathiaz> any release critical bugs we should know about?
[16:06] <mathiaz> kirkland: I've run into https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub/+bug/360832
[16:06] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 360832 in grub "unable to boot from the second disk of a RAID1 array - error 21" [High,New]
[16:06] <kirkland> mathiaz: hmm
[16:07] <mathiaz> kirkland: so I'd like to know if you could reproduce it
[16:07] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'll download the iso and test it now
[16:07] <mathiaz> kirkland: if so we'd have to decide how important this is
[16:08] <mathiaz> kirkland: I ran into this issue with a libvirt+kvm setup
[16:08] <mathiaz> kirkland: is the description of the bug clear enough?
[16:10] <mathiaz> any other release critical bug to be aware of?
[16:12] <mathiaz> kirkland: I've also ran into https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kvm/+bug/360825
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 360825 in kvm "kvm 0.84 doesn't create three drives in the guest" [Medium,Triaged]
[16:12] <mathiaz> kirkland: but that doesn't seem critical
[16:12] <mathiaz> kirkland: soren already commented on it.
[16:13] <mathiaz> kirkland: however I'd like to confirm it on a jaunty host (it should be the same)
[16:13] <soren> it is
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm testing now
[16:13] <mathiaz> soren: ok - the kvm command line is generated by libvirt
[16:14] <mathiaz> soren: anyway - your comment is clear about the issue.
[16:14] <mathiaz> anything else to report wrt to release critical bugs?
=== dendrobates- is now known as dendrobates
[16:17] <mathiaz> all right - no release critical bugs from the server team then.
[16:17] <kirkland> mathiaz: is that grub one RC?
[16:17] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm stopping what i'm doing right now to take a look at it
[16:17] <kirkland> mathiaz: if it's not RC, then i'm going to work on it when i get a chance
[16:18] <mathiaz> kirkland: well - that's what we should discuss.
[16:18] <mathiaz> kirkland: first I'd like to get it confirmed by someone else
[16:18] <kirkland> mathiaz: okay, i'll proceed testing
[16:19] <mathiaz> kirkland: if you can confirm it, we should discuss how important it is.
[16:19] <mathiaz> kirkland: you can ping later about it
[16:19] <kirkland> mathiaz: okay
[16:21] <mathiaz> anyother release critical bug te be aware of?
[16:22] <ivoks> i'm not aware of any
[16:22] <mathiaz> allright - let's move on then.
[16:22] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] ISO testing
[16:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  ISO testing
[16:22] <mathiaz> so we're getting ready for 9.04 RC scheduled for this Thursday
[16:23] <mathiaz> ubuntu-server isos are posted on the iso testing tracker
[16:23] <mathiaz> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/
[16:23] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/
[16:23] <mathiaz> there are 15 test cases for each isos
[16:23] <mathiaz> each testcase has a detailed description of what needs to be done
[16:24] <mathiaz> any help in this area is welcome.
[16:24] <mathiaz> and of cource we'll start all over next week for the final release of 9.04
[16:25] <ivoks> i have to ask one more time :/
[16:25] <ivoks> there's no chance in getting dovecot-postfix into mail stack?
[16:25] <mathiaz> ivoks: I think it's too late now.
[16:26] <ivoks> ok
[16:26] <mathiaz> ivoks: IMO we made a first good step this release cycle
[16:26] <ScottK-laptop> ivoks: Would you please have a look at Bug #360689.  If I messed up the default config for amavisd, I want to get it fixed post-RC.
[16:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 360689 in amavisd-new "Default Ubuntu configuration is backscatter source in Jaunty" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/360689
[16:26] <mathiaz> ivoks: it's already in main
[16:26] <ivoks> ScottK-laptop: i will look at it
[16:27] <ivoks> mathiaz: ok
[16:27] <ivoks> ScottK-laptop: ah, i see...
[16:27] <ivoks> ScottK-laptop: i would mark this as 'won't fix'
[16:27] <mathiaz> ivoks: we'll discuss things further during next UDS
[16:28] <ivoks> ScottK-laptop: that's RFC behaviour; undelivered mail should be bounced
[16:28] <ivoks> ScottK-laptop: when undelivered cause of attachments or wrong header
[16:33] <mathiaz> so help in iso testing is welcomed.
[16:33] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:33] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ideas for Karmic
[16:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ideas for Karmic
[16:34] <mathiaz> Even thought we're *all* focusing on the Jaunty release schedule for next week, ideas for the next release cycle may cross your mind once in a while
[16:34] <mathiaz> if so, head to the IdeaPool wiki page and add them
[16:34] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/IdeaPool
[16:36] <mie> woi
[16:36] <mie> menatee mano sero biso pado hase?
[16:36] <mie> menatee mano sero biso pado hase?
[16:38] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:38] <mathiaz> anything else to add?
[16:38] <mathiaz> BTW if you've just come accross a release critical bug, let us know! ;)
[16:39] <ScottK-laptop> I did want to mention that we got clamav updated to 0.95.1 and all the rdepends fixed.
[16:40] <ScottK-laptop> Special thanks to cemc (not here now) and nxvl for their help.
[16:41] <naley> hai all
[16:41] <naley> aku nk join meeting leh x
[16:41] <naley> aku pakai kerabuntu
[16:42] <naley> mana persia
[16:42] <naley> nga amachu
[16:42] <bizkut> naley, what is kerabuntu?
[16:42] <naley> asl pls persia
[16:42] <mathiaz> ScottK-laptop: awesome - is that part of jaunty?
[16:42] <naley> Amachu
[16:42] <naley> elky,
[16:43] <naley> themuso
[16:43] <ivoks> !ops
[16:43] <ubottu> Help! Seveas, Hobbsee, LjL, ompaulafk, Keybuk, mdz, sabdfl, janimo, ogra, mdke, dholbach, or jono
[16:43]  * naley give -0 to elky  themuso persia 
[16:43]  * naley give -0 to elky  themuso persia 
[16:43] <mathiaz> naley: are you here for the Asia/Pacific board?
[16:43] <naley> nope
[16:43] <naley> for europe
[16:44] <mdz> ivoks: what's the trouble?
[16:44] <mathiaz> naley: well - this is the Ubuntu Server Team meeting.
[16:44] <mathiaz> naley: I don't know when the European board will have their meetings
[16:44] <ivoks> mdz: mathiaz is trying the polite approach with naley
[16:45] <naley> ok
[16:45] <naley> im from uganda
[16:45] <naley> stay at europe
[16:45] <naley> ok i just waste my time here
[16:45] <naley> see what u all meeting
[16:46] <ScottK-laptop> mathiaz: Yes.  In Jaunty
[16:46] <mdz> naley: please be quiet during the meeting.  if you want something else, please go to #ubuntu and ask there
[16:47] <ScottK-laptop> mathiaz: We got the relevant security fixes into intrepid-security, hardy-backports, and dapper-backports too.
[16:47] <naley> ok
[16:47] <mathiaz> ScottK-laptop: great.
[16:47] <mathiaz> Anything else to add to this open discussion topic?
[16:48] <naley> ScottK,  : i want ask u about software wireshark
[16:48] <naley> did u know anything about it
[16:48] <mathiaz> naley: you should probably ask this question somewhere else
[16:48] <mathiaz> naley: like in #ubuntu
[16:48] <naley> where?
[16:48] <naley> can u tell me
[16:48] <ivoks> naley: please, use another channel, this one is for meetings
[16:48] <mathiaz> naley: in #ubuntu
[16:48] <naley> ok
[16:48] <naley> tq
[16:49] <mathiaz> all right - if nothing else is to be added let's move on.
[16:49] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:49] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:49] <mathiaz> same place, same time, next week?
[16:50] <sommer> sure
[16:53] <mathiaz> all right then.
[16:53] <mathiaz> see you all next week, same time, same place.
[16:53] <mathiaz> and don't forget to test ubuntu-server isos for Jaunty RC.
[16:53] <mathiaz> happy testing!
[16:54] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
