{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* T Development Opening
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

==== Meeting Information ====
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 26 Nov at 16:02 &mdash; 16:32 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-11-26-16.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

==== Summary ====
There were no actions from the previous meeting.  The primary focus of this weeks meeting was to review the high and critical Ubuntu Server bugs at http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server, and to for everyone to write up blueprints and get them ready for approval by team leads.  A decision was also made to only cut Ubuntu Cloud images for Alpha 1 in the Trusty cycle. James Page will also initiate a review of the server seed. Additional details can be found below in the logs and action items.

===== Meeting Actions =====

* smoser sync with utlemming on building cloud images for alpha 1, targets = seed-review, gpt
* jamespage do seed-review email
* jamespage, gaughen review blueprints and accept for trusty
* gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there
* all: write up blueprints, and have them ready for review by November 28

===== Action items, by person =====

* gaughen
** jamespage, gaughen review blueprints and accept for trusty
** gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there
* jamespage
** jamespage do seed-review email
** jamespage, gaughen review blueprints and accept for trusty
* smoser
** smoser sync with utlemming on building cloud images for alpha 1, targets = seed-review, gpt

==== Trusty Development ====
The discussion about "Trusty Development" started at 16:03.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:05)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server 
** ''ACTION:'' smoser sync with utlemming on building cloud images for alpha 1, targets = seed-review, gpt
** ''ACTION:'' jamespage do seed-review email
** ''LINK:'' http://launchpad.net/bugs/1243762 
* '''Blueprints''' (16:19)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html 
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-t-servercloud-overview 
** ''ACTION:'' jamespage, gaughen review blueprints and accept for trusty
** ''ACTION:'' gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there
** ''ACTION:'' all: write up blueprints, and have them ready for review by November 28

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:25.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:26.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)" started at 16:27.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)" started at 16:29.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:29.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:31.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:32.
* NEXT MEETING: Tuesday 2013-12-03 at 1600 UTC

=== Log ===
<pre>

 16:02 <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov 26 16:02:08 2013 UTC.  The chair is arosales. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology> 

 16:02 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:02 <arosales> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:02 <arosales> No actions from previous meeting

 16:03 <arosales> #topic Trusty Development

 16:03 <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule

 16:04 <arosales> we have an alpha coming up I think . . .

 16:04 <arosales> Dec 19th

 16:04 <arosales> opt in for flavors

 16:04 <arosales> smoser, jamespage is server opting in?

 16:05 * arosales doesn't see utlemming for cloud image confirmation

 16:05 <jamespage> as a core flavor we don't normally opt in - I'm happy to stick with that for alpha1

 16:05 <arosales> jamespage, ack

 16:05 <arosales> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:05 <arosales> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:05 <smoser> jamespage, well, i like to create cloud images.

 16:06 <arosales> smoser, I think cloud images has done an alpha in the past .  . .

 16:06 <smoser> i'd like for us to opt in for alpha1 cloud images, with some actual targets.

 16:06 <jamespage> sure

 16:06 <smoser> the seed-review and gpt

 16:06 <smoser> jamespage, have you done a seed-review email ?

 16:07 <arosales> #action smoser sync with utlemming on building cloud images for alpha 1, targets = seed-review, gpt

 16:07 * meetingology smoser sync with utlemming on building cloud images for alpha 1, targets = seed-review, gpt

 16:07 <jamespage> smoser, urgh - not yet

 16:07 <jamespage> arosales, please action me todo that asap

 16:07 <arosales> will do

 16:07 <arosales> #action jamespage do seed-review email

 16:07 * meetingology jamespage do seed-review email

 16:07 <arosales> onto bugs :-)

 16:08 <arosales> got two high @ http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:08 <arosales> no critical

 16:08 <arosales> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1243762

 16:08 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1243762 in juju-core (Ubuntu Trusty) "[MIR] juju-core, golang" [High,Confirmed]

 16:08 <jamespage> that will stick on the report until either we decide not to or it gets in main

 16:09 <arosales> jamespage, ok, thanks

 16:09 <arosales> bug 1062336

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1062336 in nova (Ubuntu Trusty) "nova-compute expects libvirtd group" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1062336

 16:09 <arosales> zul ^

 16:09 <rbasak> We should perhaps track bug 1248283, since at the moment it seems to affect all MAAS/juju on Saucy, and presumably Trusty too. I don't know how much this needs to be tracked by us as opposed to juju upstream, though.

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1248283 in juju-core "Juju deploy of Charm in MAAS fails because dbus fails" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1248283

 16:09 <arosales> nevermind jamespage looks like your marked won't fix

 16:09 <jamespage> zul, that will get fixed up under the kvm packaging review

 16:09 <zul> rbasak:  its been removed in trusty

 16:10 <rbasak> zul: what's been removed exactly?

 16:10 <zul> arosales: the xcp stuff has been removed in nova

 16:10 <zul> rbasak:  sorry not you :)

 16:10 <arosales> zul, thanks

 16:11 <arosales> rbasak, you are referring to https://bugs.launchpad.net/maas/+bug/1248283

 16:11 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1248283 in juju-core "Juju deploy of Charm in MAAS fails because dbus fails" [High,Triaged]

 16:11 <rbasak> Yes

 16:11 <arosales> good one to track

 16:12 <arosales> jamespage, which team to we add to get in on the bug tracking list?

 16:13 <arosales> ~ubuntu-server ?

 16:13 <arosales> smoser, ^

 16:14 <jamespage> no - dbus should not be on the server list

 16:14 <jamespage> raise a task for juju-core - I think that will do it

 16:14 <smoser> there is a task for juju-core thre.

 16:14 <arosales> juju-core has a task

 16:15 <arosales> while we work on that is there any other bugs we want to cover?

 16:15 <jamespage> juju-core in Ubuntu

 16:15 <arosales> there are a few other mediums and lows

 16:15 <jamespage> not upstream

 16:15 <rbasak> I think you might need a packaging task against a package that ~ubuntu-server subscribes to that also has a Trusty task.

 16:15 <rbasak> I'm not sure this is a good way to do it, mind.

 16:15 <arosales> jamespage, ah ok

 16:16 <jamespage> rbasak, is the bug in dbus?

 16:16 <rbasak> Debatable. I'd say the primary bug is in juju-core.

 16:16 <rbasak> (or perhaps the MAAS provider in juju if that's separate)

 16:16 <arosales> rbasak, could you add a task for juju-core in Ubuntu?

 16:16 <rbasak> dbus would ideally not fail, and ideally log a message explaining what happens when it does.

 16:17 <rbasak> But juju should not try to restart networking. It doesn't need to do that anyway.

 16:17 <jamespage> rbasak, raise a distro bug task for Ubuntu and target to trusty

 16:17 <jamespage> so we can track it

 16:17 <rbasak> ack

 16:17 <arosales> rbasak, thanks

 16:18 <arosales> any other bugs we should cover

 16:18 <rbasak> Done. Importance?

 16:18 <arosales> got the highs and critical ones done @ http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:18 <rbasak> I'll say Triaged/High.

 16:18 <arosales> rbasak, thanks for brining in one we needed to track too

 16:18 <arosales> ok we covered those

 16:18 <arosales> not the others on the list are openstack

 16:19 <arosales> less websockify

 16:19 <arosales> moving on

 16:19 <arosales> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:19 <arosales> jamespage, to my failing did you create a topic bp?

 16:19 <jamespage> yes

 16:19 <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html

 16:19 <arosales> ah and you must have updated the notes

 16:19 <arosales> well done -- thank you

 16:19 <arosales> :-)

 16:20 <arosales> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html

 16:20 <arosales> hmm not loading for me atm

 16:20 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-t-servercloud-overview

 16:20 <arosales> working for others?

 16:21 <arosales> hmm http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/ looks to may need a kick

 16:21 <jamespage> arosales, no

 16:21 * arosales doesn't see any topic BPs there

 16:21 <jamespage> arosales, gaughen: we need to go through all blueprints and priortize and accept for trusty

 16:22 <jamespage> so as its only UDS + 2 days really

 16:22 <arosales> #action jamespage, gaughen review blueprints and accept for trusty

 16:22 * meetingology jamespage, gaughen review blueprints and accept for trusty

 16:22 <gaughen> okay

 16:22 <smoser> yeah.

 16:22 <jamespage> can respectfully suggest that everyone write up their blueprints from last week by thursday

 16:22 <jamespage> using the blueprint spec

 16:22 <jamespage> and mark 'Pending Approval'

 16:22 <arosales> #action gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there

 16:22 * meetingology gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there

 16:23 <arosales> gaughen, I hope you don't mind that action

 16:23 <jamespage> then smoser, gaughen and I will know which ones to review

 16:23 <arosales> gaughen, https://bugs.launchpad.net/launchpad-work-items-tracker/+filebug

 16:23 <arosales> gaughen, ping me if you have any questions

 16:23 <jamespage> so I guess for folks in the US that means be end of wednesday

 16:23 <jamespage> ....

 16:23 <jamespage> sorry

 16:23 <gaughen> nope don't mind but i will have questions :-)

 16:23 <jamespage> actually - this makes no sense

 16:23 <arosales> #action all: write up blueprints, and have them ready for review by November 28

 16:23 * meetingology all: write up blueprints, and have them ready for review by November 28

 16:24 <jamespage> end of week - then we can review early next week

 16:24 <smoser> end of week.

 16:24 <smoser> (which may be in a few hours for some US folk)

 16:25 <arosales> # all write up bluerprints, using blueprint spec, mark 'pending approval', and have complete by November 29

 16:25 <arosales> any other BP topics?

 16:25 <arosales> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:26 <arosales> caribou any bugs to bring up here that we didn't already cover?

 16:26 * arosales doesn't see caribou online atm

 16:26 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:26 <psivaa> No updates from us,

 16:26 <arosales> psivaa, ok thanks

 16:27 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:28 <arosales> smb any updates?

 16:28 * arosales doesn't seem smb here atm

 16:29 <arosales> any folks from kernel

 16:29 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:29 <rbasak> No updates from me. Any questions?

 16:29 <arosales> any questions for rbasak ?

 16:29 <arosales> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:30 <arosales> we had a lot of events we just came back from

 16:30 <arosales> ODS, uVDS, RubyConf, AWS re:Invent

 16:30 <arosales> I don't know of any upcoming in the next week

 16:30 <arosales> any other folks have any events to bring up here?

 16:31 <arosales> #topic Open Discussion

 16:31 <arosales> any other agenda items?

 16:32 <arosales> going once

 16:32 <arosales> twice

 16:32 <arosales> thrice

 16:32 <arosales> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:32 <arosales> NEXT MEETING: Tuesday 2013-12-03 at 1600 UTC

 16:32 <arosales> Thanks for joining the ubuntu server team meeting!

 16:32 <arosales> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
</pre>
