{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC-5
<pre>
(09:01:05 AM) pitti: does anyone have some new agenda items?
(09:01:14 AM) pitti: hello mpt
(09:01:41 AM) tedg: Yeah, virtual interfaces in HAL.
(09:01:52 AM) pitti: right
(09:01:54 AM) tedg: They show up in NetworkManger and are very annoying.
(09:02:02 AM) pitti: so, there is some discussion on the ML about this
(09:02:10 AM) pitti: kees asked me to pull the hal patch for this
(09:02:13 AM) tedg: Oh, haven't gotten to that yet :)
(09:02:21 AM) pitti: other people seem to think that fixing NM to deal with them would be better
(09:02:43 AM) pitti: IMHO it should be asac's decision, since he will end up being the one who fixes the bug
(09:02:57 AM) ***pitti pings him
(09:03:08 AM) mpt: Is that why I have non-existent "RR-TPN", "TPN", and "TPN-PPPoE" networks showing up in NM?
(09:03:39 AM) pitti: mpt: if it started a few days ago, then most likely
(09:03:45 AM) tedg: mpt: Perhaps, but my show up as "Unknown Computer"
(09:04:03 AM) pitti: so, let's defer this until asac turns up, or let's decide it on the ML
(09:04:06 AM) pitti: does that work for everyone?
(09:04:12 AM) tedg: Yeah.
(09:04:33 AM) pitti: so, the only agenda point today is to walk over the QA hardy list and make sure about who is working on what
(09:04:38 AM) pitti: http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html
(09:04:56 AM) pitti: let's go through everything starting from the top which is not assinged to a particular person
(09:05:09 AM) pitti: if some bug is assigned to you, but you don't think you can work on it, please shout
(09:05:24 AM) pitti: 131976 (apparmor)
(09:05:52 AM) pitti: IMHO that shouldn't be on the list; we worked around it in casper, and getting AA to work is not very critical for the live system IMHO
(09:06:22 AM) ***asac reading backlog
(09:06:58 AM) pitti: asac: Q: should I pull the 'virtual net interfaces' patch from hal (as requested by Kees) or do you want to fix n-m to ignore them?
(09:06:59 AM) asac: pitti: whats the problem with the interfaces? (summary please)
(09:07:08 AM) mvo: I take the command-not-found and apt ones (next three)
(09:07:10 AM) pitti: asac: see ML
(09:07:38 AM) asac: pitti: subject?
(09:07:56 AM) pitti: asac: distro-team@, some activity report
(09:08:11 AM) asac: ok i have found it i guess
(09:08:13 AM) pitti: mvo: thanks
(09:08:22 AM) pitti: so, there's a bunch of compiz bugs
(09:08:41 AM) pitti: mvo: we have quite a good relation to upstream for compiz, right?
(09:08:45 AM) asac: bug 198295
(09:08:50 AM) seb128: asac: I didn't try yet using the new nm but some days ago when starting virtualbox nm was switching from the wireless network I'm using to the wired network
(09:08:50 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 198295 in hal "FF exception request: update hal to git head" [Undecided,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/198295
(09:09:04 AM) mvo: yes, but I think 99508 is actually a X bug
(09:09:06 AM) pitti: mvo: do you think you could talk to upstream about those and check which can be fixed, and which should be taken off the list?
(09:09:12 AM) mvo: I can do that
(09:09:29 AM) mvo: #127705  	 is extremly unlikey to get fixed
(09:09:48 AM) asac: pitti: can we ctake that off the meeting. i cannot really tell right now whats going on and don't feel like i can make a decision based on the info i currently have
(09:10:01 AM) pitti: asac: sure
(09:10:04 AM) asac: tedg: can you please file a bug about that NM behaviour and attach a full syslog to it?
(09:10:04 AM) pitti: asac: thanks
(09:10:06 AM) pitti: asac: ML?
(09:10:21 AM) pitti: mvo: hm, that one sounds like a bug for TheMuso to look into?
(09:10:31 AM) asac: pitti: first bug ... then ML if we have results
(09:10:43 AM) asac: pitti: is there still a apckage with that patch somewhere? ppa?
(09:10:54 AM) pitti: asac: current hardy does have that patch
(09:11:00 AM) asac: ok
(09:11:01 AM) pitti: asac: current ppa, too; bzr head doesn't any more
(09:11:09 AM) mvo: pitti: I'm happy to talk to him about it, but its a difficult one IIRC the problem is conceptual, compiz does not use pango in its core so there is no atk
(09:11:15 AM) asac: tedg: ok, please file a bug then.
(09:11:17 AM) mvo: on window switching
(09:11:20 AM) pitti: mvo: can you please assign the other bugs to you? I'll talk to TheMuso about the speak one
(09:11:35 AM) pitti: and discuss taking it off the list otherwise
(09:11:38 AM) mvo: I would like to share some of the others with mirco if possible
(09:11:42 AM) pitti: sure
(09:11:44 AM) mvo: right
(09:12:19 AM) ***pitti hugs mvo, thanks
(09:12:24 AM) pitti: bug 146918 is an interesting one
(09:12:26 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 146918 in gnome-volume-manager "poor descriptions for some startup programs" [Low,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/146918
(09:12:39 AM) pitti: quite easy to fix, but should be done in accordance with upstream for not breaking translations too hard
(09:13:22 AM) pitti: seb128: a 'desktop-bugs' assignee means basically you? (as primary responsibility, and you coordinate the delegation)?
(09:13:32 AM) pitti: or is it just a kind of 'this is a desktop bug' task
(09:13:33 AM) seb128: pitti: yes, usually it means me
(09:13:36 AM) pitti: s/task$/tag/
(09:14:10 AM) pitti: seb128: are you ok with the 'desktop-bugs' assignments on that page, or do we need to discuss any of it?
(09:14:20 AM) seb128: looking
(09:14:32 AM) seb128: I did untag all the bugs I want to fix and milestone those some days ago
(09:14:43 AM) seb128: I didn't understand the page was supposed to be a list of things we need to fix
(09:14:53 AM) seb128: I though it was a list of suggestions to consider
(09:14:57 AM) mpt_ is now known as mpt
(09:15:00 AM) seb128: and that we were supposed to untag or milestone
(09:15:20 AM) pitti: I'll take care of the system-config-printer task of #146918 (speak with Till)
(09:15:32 AM) pitti: seb128: correct
(09:15:41 AM) seb128: I'm fine with those assigned to desktop-bugs
(09:15:49 AM) pitti: seb128: that's what I mean, if a bug is not really appropriate for hardy, then we should take it off
(09:16:00 AM) pitti: and we can discuss it here
(09:16:14 AM) seb128: well, either untag or,and milestone until getting the list empty, right?
(09:16:21 AM) seb128: "Unable to login when disk space is exhausted"
(09:16:27 AM) seb128: I'll not likely work on this one
(09:16:34 AM) seb128: didn't we have a spec for that?
(09:16:38 AM) seb128: who was assigned to it?
(09:16:42 AM) pitti: right, Ian was working on it
(09:16:46 AM) pitti: until he left
(09:16:56 AM) seb128: well, I though he did implemented it for gutsy
(09:16:59 AM) pitti: hm, didn't we get the 1 MB tmpfs /tmp at least?
(09:17:31 AM) pitti: /etc/init.d/mountoverflowtmp
(09:17:45 AM) pitti: rcS.d/S37
(09:17:54 AM) pitti: so shouldn't that be fixed?
(09:18:09 AM) seb128: I though it would be but I didn't check
(09:18:37 AM) pitti: seb128: so if /tmp was the actual issue, it should be fixed
(09:18:50 AM) pitti: if ENOSPACE on ~ is a problem, too, then we need more fixes
(09:18:56 AM) pitti: does anyone feel like giving this a test?
(09:19:09 AM) pitti: and adopting this bug for the duration of the test at least?
(09:19:25 AM) seb128: I'll try to do that while doing desktop testing if nobody else do but not guaranty, I've tons of things on my hardy list
(09:19:29 AM) pitti: tedg: ^ interested?
(09:20:42 AM) tedg: tedg: Sure, I can try.  I haven't looked at the bug, is there detail on how to reproduce?
(09:21:07 AM) pitti: tedg: I guess it shuold work to log out, dd if=/dev/zero of=/tmp/bigfile until it aborts, and then logging in
(09:21:19 AM) pitti: erm, maybe not /tmp
(09:21:25 AM) pitti: /bigfile
(09:21:27 AM) pitti: and then reboot
(09:21:52 AM) pitti: i. e. fill your root partition to the max, and check if you can log in
(09:22:23 AM) tedg: I think I'll virtualize that test ;)
(09:22:37 AM) pitti: kwwii: how does your schedule look like? do you have some time to look into bug 149437?
(09:22:41 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 149437 in example-content "Examples folder content should be updated for Gutsy" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/149437
(09:22:53 AM) kwwii: on bug 149437 we might get an update from a design company, keybuck would know more
(09:22:58 AM) pitti: kwwii: I'm fine with doing the actual package update, but we need someone to run over the documents and check which need updating
(09:23:03 AM) pitti: ah
(09:23:06 AM) pitti: neat
(09:23:07 AM) kwwii: I have been waiting the whole time to press enter on that comment :-)
(09:23:18 AM) ***pitti hugs kwwii
(09:23:26 AM) pitti: kwwii: could you talk to him and ask him about this?
(09:23:38 AM) kwwii: pitti: yepp, I'll stay on top of it
(09:23:48 AM) pitti: cool; mind to assing the bug to you?
(09:23:59 AM) kwwii: yepp, will do
(09:24:04 AM) pitti: cool, thanks
(09:25:18 AM) ***pitti reads bug 149665 and wonders whether tedg already knows something about it
(09:25:20 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 149665 in linux-source-2.6.22 "when returning from suspend my laptop tries to hibernate" [Undecided,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/149665
(09:25:32 AM) tedg: asac: bug 199140
(09:25:40 AM) pitti: an upstream "Linux" task header with a gnome bug, yay
(09:25:41 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 199140 in network-manager "Network manager shows and connects to virtual interfaces" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/199140
(09:26:39 AM) Riddell: what is this bug list?  I don't understand how these bugs were chosen to be special and why there's a list there rather than on launchpad
(09:27:17 AM) tedg: pitti: Yeah, the curious part about that one is gpm blocks all events until it resyncs for that reason.
(09:27:37 AM) pitti: tedg: do we already have the patch davidz mentions in http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=486138#c6 ?
(09:27:40 AM) ubotu: Gnome bug 486138 in gnome-power-manager "suspend after resume from hibernate" [Normal,Unconfirmed]
(09:27:52 AM) pitti: Riddell: it's the qa-hardy-list tag sorted by team
(09:28:45 AM) Riddell: and they're chosen just by qa team considering them important?
(09:29:00 AM) tedg: No, that's on my list to look at from Fedora.
(09:29:01 AM) seb128 left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(09:29:07 AM) pitti: tedg: anyway, assuming that the bug reporters answer, could you collect enough hal and g-p-m logs from them to update the upstream bug? At least finding out whether it's a hal or g-p-m bug? (the reporters should try the hal git snapshot in my PPA, to be uploaded tomorrow after alpha-6)
(09:29:19 AM) pitti: tedg: ok, so seems you already own that bug?
(09:29:26 AM) tedg: pitti: Yes.
(09:29:39 AM) pitti: Riddell: its a pool that we should pull from, not a commitment list
(09:29:58 AM) pitti: Riddell: IIRC it was choosen for bugs which are particularly annoying people, or have many dups, etc.
(09:30:01 AM) ***tedg needs to go buy 10 random laptops to recreate some of these...
(09:30:08 AM) pitti: Riddell: we can untag them if a bug isn't something appropriate for hardy
(09:30:50 AM) pitti: tedg: I think if we can get detailled logs and pinpoint whether it's gpm or hal and send it to David, we have a good chance
(09:31:44 AM) pitti: mvo: bug 96705 sounds easy to fix?
(09:31:45 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 96705 in synaptic "Unclear language about Automatic Updates in Software Sources" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/96705
(09:31:56 AM) pitti: (and we should do it soon, since we are in UI freeze)
(09:32:10 AM) mpt_ is now known as mpt
(09:32:14 AM) mvo: pitti: yeah, give the synaptic ones to me too
(09:32:41 AM) pitti: ok, thanks
(09:35:12 AM) pitti: Riddell: can you comment on the KDE ones? anything which is inappropriate for the list?
(09:35:36 AM) Riddell: 99044 is a feature
(09:35:45 AM) Riddell: 19802 ugly but not that important
(09:35:57 AM) Riddell: 36655 I have no way of testing unless someone gets me a modem
(09:36:05 AM) Riddell: 50039 likely very complex to fix
(09:36:20 AM) Riddell: 125767 I don't know what this one is about, would need to look into it, sounds like a feature
(09:37:08 AM) Riddell: 145337 is on my todo :)
(09:37:09 AM) pitti: Riddell: bug 99044 sounds like the counterpart of bug 32917
(09:37:11 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 99044 in kdebase "KDM does not work if disk is full and gives no warning about it" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/99044
(09:37:12 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 32917 in rhythmbox "Multimedia keys only works after re-configuring in gnome-keybinding-properties and restarting rhythmbox" [Low,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/32917
(09:37:23 AM) pitti: erm, I mean bug 35217
(09:37:24 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 35217 in gdm "Unable to login when disk space is exhausted" [Unknown,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/35217
(09:37:36 AM) pitti: Riddell: so with /etc/init.d/mountoverflowtmp it might be fixed for Kubuntu as well?
(09:37:36 AM) Riddell: yes, it does
(09:37:59 AM) Riddell: I don't know what that does
(09:38:03 AM) Riddell: I can look into it
(09:38:18 AM) pitti: Riddell: it creates an 1 MB tmpfs on /tmp if / is full
(09:38:30 AM) pitti: Riddell: tedg will test it for GNOME
(09:38:51 AM) pitti: Riddell: I think that'll solve it for /; it might be an issue if /home is on a separate partition and /home is full, though
(09:39:13 AM) pitti: Riddell: 19802 should be untagged then?
(09:40:41 AM) Riddell: pitti: indeed, I don't think it's worth spending much time on
(09:41:15 AM) pitti: Riddell: bug 125767> ah, I see; I think it means that if you have configured a wifi in /etc/network/interfaces, there's no GUI way to disable it again
(09:41:16 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 125767 in knetworkmanager "KNetworkManager Can't Set "Roaming Mode"" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/125767
(09:41:50 AM) Riddell: right, that's a pain and should be fixed, but it's not my highest priority
(09:41:50 AM) pitti: Riddell: in GNOME, we have a "Configure manually..." menu item in network-manager which spawns the network configuration tool (network-admin in gnome)
(09:41:57 AM) Riddell: we do too
(09:42:00 AM) pitti: which allows you to disable the /e/n/i one
(09:42:06 AM) pitti: ah, ok
(09:42:20 AM) pitti: "Riddell| 125767 I don't know what this one is about", so I thought I'd explain
(09:42:42 AM) Riddell: and now I know :)
(09:42:43 AM) pitti: Riddell: I agree that it's not an OMGRELEASEBLOCKER thing
(09:42:54 AM) pitti: so, untaggin it is then?
(09:43:18 AM) Riddell: shrug, keep it tagged, maybe me or someone else will find time for it
(09:43:21 AM) pitti: Riddell: at least it should be reassigned to the network kcontrol package?
(09:43:32 AM) Riddell: yes (kdeadmin)
(09:43:43 AM) pitti: since a normal user can't change /e/n/interfaces anyway
(09:43:46 AM) pitti: ok, thanks
(09:44:19 AM) pitti: Riddell: hm, 145337 is in fact a KDE bug? sounds like a hal bug at first sight
(09:44:37 AM) Riddell: pitti: likely an issue with kmilo
(09:44:57 AM) Riddell: so kdeutils is the right place for it
(09:45:20 AM) pitti: alright
(09:45:50 AM) pitti: so, I think that's the list; any questions, comments, bugs to discuss/throw out/reassign due to overload/cry for help?
(09:46:11 AM) pitti: I personally don't have a lot of milestoned/tagged ones
(09:46:33 AM) pitti: so I'm concentrating on hal/utopia ones ATM to improve hardware support
(09:46:40 AM) seb128_: we have lot of desktop bugs, anybody is welcome to crack on those ;-)
(09:46:44 AM) pitti: so I can help out if you need me
(09:46:55 AM) seb128_: nobody does avahi by any chance?
(09:46:57 AM) pitti: seb128_: I'm interested in learning about gvfs, I might have a stab on it
(09:47:06 AM) seb128_: pitti: cool ;-)
(09:47:07 AM) pitti: avahi> lool?
(09:47:09 AM) ***seb128_ hugs pitti
(09:47:22 AM) seb128_: pitti: lool is mobile team now though
(09:48:43 AM) pitti: seb128_: I don't know much about it, but I have good contact to Lennart
(09:49:01 AM) pitti: seb128_: so if you stumble across a bad one, toss it to me, and I'll discuss it with him and see what I can do
(09:49:38 AM) seb128_: pitti: ok, that's my issue, avahi doesn't go out of the registering state on my desktop
(09:49:47 AM) seb128_: might be a race with network manager or something
(09:49:55 AM) seb128_: there is several similar issue on launchpad
(09:50:21 AM) seb128_: that breaks totally gvfs dns-sd
(09:50:27 AM) pitti: seb128_: ok, I added "look at avahi bugs" to my TODO list
(09:50:31 AM) seb128_: restarting avahi make it work correctly
(09:50:45 AM) seb128_: does lennart do IRC?
(09:50:53 AM) seb128_: could you ask him what informations would be useful to him?
(09:51:01 AM) pitti: occasionally, but most often I use jabber
(09:51:04 AM) seb128_: ok
(09:51:06 AM) pitti: seb128_: bug#?
(09:51:09 AM) seb128_: if you have a chance to ask him
(09:51:13 AM) pitti: sure
(09:51:24 AM) seb128_: pitti: I should likely open a bug upstream
(09:51:25 AM) pitti: seb128_: if it totally breaks, please add qa-hardy-list
(09:51:33 AM) seb128_: but yet another bug tracker where to register
(09:51:53 AM) pitti: seb128_: so the avahid started from rc2.d has that problem?
(09:51:59 AM) seb128_: yes
(09:52:08 AM) seb128_: but not on all the system
(09:52:13 AM) seb128_: it does on my desktop
(09:52:13 AM) pitti: seb128_: ok, let's handle htat in #u-devel, shall we?
(09:52:22 AM) pitti: any other topics for the meeting?
(09:52:22 AM) seb128_: and there is similar issues on launchpad
(09:52:26 AM) seb128_: yes, thanks
(09:52:30 AM) seb128_: no other topic
(09:52:56 AM) pitti: ok, thanks everyone then
(09:52:59 AM) pitti: let's go zap bugz!
(09:53:03 AM) seb128_: ;-)
(09:53:05 AM) seb128_: thanks pitti
</pre>
