{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** hggdh to discuss the outcome of server-maverick-qa-workflow in ServerMeeting at some point in the future
** sommer to check on getting some cloud-init / cloud-config doc. smoser should be available to help
** SpamapS to send mail to -devel to get ruby community position on ruby gems in ubuntu
* Maverick development (jib)
** Alpha3 <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-3.html|subcycle status]]</nowiki> (ttx)
** Alpha3-milestoned bugs
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** Bug Bug:597387: Maverick EC2 kernel issue
** Bug Bug:599450: getattr/apparmor breaks several packages
** Bug Bug:574910: High load averages on EC2 with Lucid while idling
** atop kernel patch
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly SRU review (zul)
** Nominations review (see <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2010-July/004412.html|thread]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html|SRU Tracker]]</nowiki> status
* Server papercuts status (ttx)
* Daily triage backlog (ttx)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-08-03 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== Minutes ===

===== Action Points Review with kirkland =====
* hggdh to discuss the outcome of server-maverick-qa-workflow in ServerMeeting during the beta cycle
* sommer/smoser in sync on cloud-init documentation, action DONE
* '''[ACTION] SpamapS to work with mathiaz on a proposal, and send proposal to -devel on ruby gems in ubuntu'''

===== Maverick Developments with jiboumans =====
* we are a bit behind on Alpha3; somewhat expected; only low priority specs affected so far

===== QA Q&A with hggdh =====
* hggdh has filed a few (4) bugs against eucalyptus-2.0

===== Kernel Chit Chat with jjohansen =====
* jjohansen has a pv-ops kernel in testing; apparmor fixes queued and should be uploaded; lucid high load average bug may not be an illusion

===== Doc Talk with sommer =====
* uec section updated from the wiki docs in http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/uec.html
* '''[ACTION] Daviey & kirkland to review http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/uec.html'''

===== SRU Fun with zul =====
* 10.04.1 is coming up; need to know about SRU bugs ASAP

===== Bloody Papercuts with ttx =====
* not in good shape; papercuts need to be fixed by end of the week to make Alpha3
* '''[ACTION] entire team to fix your papercuts by end-of-the-week'''

===== Triage Backlog with ttx =====
* regular triage work slipped last week; likely culprits: pilsner and absynthe; everyone to help out clearing the queue

===== Open Discussion =====
* kim0 to deploy a web app that will let people show where in the world they are running an Ubuntu server
* roaksoax says that we should have an HA cluster in Main for Maverick
* '''[ACTION] SpamapS and ScottK to reivew Kolab php5 patches'''

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 14th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:04] <kirkland> #startmeeting
[19:04] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:04. The chair is kirkland.
[19:04] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:04] <kirkland> howdy folks, i seem to have forgotten that I'm chairing
[19:05] <jiboumans> kirkland: rest assured, we're here to remind you ;)
[19:05]  * kirkland grabs stuff
[19:05] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:05] <jiboumans> hggdh to discuss the outcome of server-maverick-qa-workflow in ServerMeeting at some point in the future
[19:05]  * jiboumans proxies while kirkland loads
[19:06]  * hggdh fixes on the "some point in the future"
[19:06]  * kirkland has it now
[19:06] <jiboumans> hggdh: postponed until the beta cycle right?
[19:06] <hggdh> jiboumans: I think this is a good idea
[19:07] <kirkland> hggdh: anything more on that?
[19:07] <hggdh> on qa-workflow no, pretty much up-to-date except for 3 postponed items
[19:07] <kirkland> hggdh: k, thanks
[19:07] <kirkland> * sommer to check on getting some cloud-init / cloud-config doc. smoser should be available to help
[19:07] <kirkland> sommer: any progress?
[19:08] <sommer> added a "first boot" section with information from smoser's march blog post
[19:08] <kirkland> sommer: link?
[19:08] <sommer> just added it this morning, so should be available on doc.u.c tomorrow
[19:08] <smoser> sommer, https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CloudInit also
[19:08] <kirkland> #link https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CloudInit
[19:08] <jiboumans> cloud-init++ # totally awesome
[19:09] <kirkland> [LINK]  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CloudInit
[19:09] <MootBot> LINK received:   https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CloudInit
[19:09] <sommer> smoser: I'll look through that... I used http://ubuntu-smoser.blogspot.com/2010/03/introducing-cloud-inits-cloud-config.html
[19:09] <kirkland> sommer: cool, any action left on this to hold over for next week?
[19:10] <smoser> call it done.
[19:10] <kirkland> [LINK] http://ubuntu-smoser.blogspot.com/2010/03/introducing-cloud-inits-cloud-config.html
[19:10] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntu-smoser.blogspot.com/2010/03/introducing-cloud-inits-cloud-config.html
[19:10] <sommer> if someone could review the section that'd be awesome
[19:10] <kirkland> smoser: that's you, right?
[19:10] <smoser> sure.
[19:10] <kirkland> [ACTION] smoser to review https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CloudInit
[19:10] <MootBot> ACTION received:  smoser to review https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CloudInit
[19:11] <kirkland>  * SpamapS to send mail to -devel to get ruby community position on ruby gems in ubuntu
[19:11] <kirkland> spamaps does not appear to be here
[19:11] <smoser> well, i wrote that link. so i'm assuming its good.  sommer will provide me with where to look for his doc.
[19:11] <kirkland> jiboumans: is spamaps on holiday today?
[19:11] <sommer> for the record: http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/uec.html
[19:12] <jiboumans> kirkland: spamaps is hacking on code
[19:12] <kirkland> <kirkland>  * SpamapS to send mail to -devel to get ruby community position on ruby gems in ubuntu
[19:12] <jiboumans> he's probably too distracted by the shinies
[19:12] <kirkland> SpamapS: welcome ;-)
[19:12] <kirkland> jiboumans: lucky :-)
[19:12] <SpamapS> thanks
[19:12]  * SpamapS enters with a red face
[19:12] <kirkland> SpamapS: email sent to -devel re: ruby gems?
[19:12]  * ttx does the evil look (again)
[19:12] <jiboumans> if you're late you should totally bring cookies
[19:13] <kirkland> SpamapS: me and you both, kid ;-)  (/me was discombobulated today too)
[19:13] <SpamapS> I did not, because we didn't come to a consensus on the position to take, and are trying to be delicate.
[19:13] <kirkland> SpamapS: okay .... anything blocking that discussion?
[19:13]  * SpamapS Set-Cookie: happy-ubuntu-server-team=1
[19:13] <jiboumans> spamaps: any chance we will get to consensus, or is this blocking going forward?
[19:13] <kirkland> SpamapS: and who needs to be in that quorum to achieve a consensus?
[19:14] <ScottK> For Ruby Gems, it would be important to talk to the Debian Ruby maintainers too.
[19:15] <SpamapS> I'm not sure where we are in the discussion, nothing is blocking it but the whole thing is still just an uncertain mess IMO
[19:15] <jiboumans> spamaps: so what's the next step?
[19:15] <mathiaz> ScottK: agreed - if we can start the conversation with a  concrete proposal it would be helpful
[19:15] <kirkland> SpamapS: okay -- what consensus do we need to send an email?
[19:15] <mathiaz> I think we should come up with a proposal
[19:15] <SpamapS> mathiaz: we had discussed approaching some people who believe there is an FHS solution that makes everyone happy.. right?
[19:15] <mathiaz> SpamapS: yeah - that's one option
[19:16] <mathiaz> I'd start by stating (again) the problem
[19:16] <ScottK> I want to make sure we don't have a repeat of what happened last time.
[19:16] <SpamapS> I believe the next step is proposing a solution that meets the FHS standards and leaves binaries in users' default path
[19:16] <mathiaz> SpamapS: yes
[19:16] <SpamapS> To the debian rubygems maintainers.. and upon rejection, consider carrying a delta in universe.
[19:16] <SpamapS> err
[19:16] <SpamapS> that sounds wrong
[19:16] <SpamapS> IF it is rejected
[19:17] <ScottK> SpamapS: Only if we feel the rejection is unsound.
[19:17] <SpamapS> so next action is to draft a proposal.
[19:17] <ScottK> Last time they rejected something I think they had very good reasons.
[19:17] <SpamapS> The reasons, years ago now, were technically sound, but practically a disaster for rubygems users.
[19:18] <kirkland> okay, so I think we carry over this item to next week
[19:18] <ScottK> The approach was also not handled very collaboratively when it was being developed.
[19:18] <SpamapS> Right, so we want to make a proposal, and get the discussion started.
[19:18] <SpamapS> And get to a decision soon, as users are hurting.
[19:18] <kirkland> [ACTION] SpamapS to work with mathiaz on a proposal, and send proposal to -devel on ruby gems in ubuntu
[19:18] <MootBot> ACTION received:  SpamapS to work with mathiaz on a proposal, and send proposal to -devel on ruby gems in ubuntu
[19:19] <kirkland> okay, that's all from last week's action items
[19:19] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Maverick development (jib)
[19:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development (jib)
[19:19] <jiboumans> o/
[19:19] <kirkland> jiboumans: howdy
[19:19] <jiboumans> we're somewhat behind the curve on Alpha3
[19:19] <jiboumans> we knew this going in as we had quite a few extra requests for this cycle
[19:20] <jiboumans> we've been postponing what's reasonable to the Betas and dropping what simply can't be accomodated
[19:20] <jiboumans> only Low priority specs have been affected so far
[19:20] <ttx> Remember: 2 weeks left, 1 week for package updates, 1 week for non-package work
[19:20] <kirkland> [LINK] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-3.html
[19:20] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-3.html
[19:20] <ttx> so concentrate your package work on this week !
[19:20] <jiboumans> on the upside, we have a few days after Alpha3 but before Feature Freeze so we hope to minimize the culling
[19:20] <jiboumans> .. and what ttx said ;)
[19:21] <jiboumans> at this point, all Low and some work items from Medium specs are at risk
[19:21] <SpamapS> jiboumans: one correction, the monitoring framework was not low priority, but was dropped more to support the UEC monitoring effort than to free up capacity.
[19:21] <jiboumans> SpamapS: good point
[19:21] <jiboumans> during last weeks sprint in Prague we also hashed out the best way to support monitoring & graphing with UEC as the use case
[19:21] <ttx> I'd like to bring attention to the alpha3-milestoned bugs on the team plate:
[19:21] <kirkland> okay, milestoned bugs?
[19:21] <jiboumans> so that spec got re-vamped based on that
[19:22] <jiboumans> ttx, floors all yours
[19:22] <ttx> Bug 591006 - [MIR] haproxy (clint-fewbar)
[19:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 591006 in haproxy (Ubuntu) "[MIR] haproxy" [Wishlist,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/591006
[19:22] <ttx> Bug 600174 - axis2c fails to build from source in maverick (kirkland)
[19:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 600174 in axis2c (Ubuntu Maverick) "axis2c fails to build from source in maverick" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/600174
[19:22] <ttx> Bug 600984 - redhat-cluster-suite fails to build from source in maverick (RoAkSoAx)
[19:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 600984 in redhat-cluster (Ubuntu Maverick) "redhat-cluster-suite fails to build from source in maverick" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/600984
[19:22] <ttx> Bug 600220 - libnet-dns-perl fails to build from source in maverick (ttx)
[19:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 600220 in libnet-dns-perl (Ubuntu Maverick) "libnet-dns-perl fails to build from source in maverick" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/600220
[19:23] <ttx> Bug 600378 - [needs-packaging] python-libgearman (SpamapS ?)
[19:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 600378 in Ubuntu "[needs-packaging] python-libgearman" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/600378
[19:23] <ttx> Bug 607730 - [needs-packaging] ceph (SpamapS ?)
[19:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 607730 in Ubuntu "[needs-packaging] ceph" [Wishlist,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/607730
[19:23] <zul> ill look at the ftbfs
[19:23] <ttx> SpamapS: any reason why those two are targeted to alpha3 ?
[19:23] <ttx> zul: they are already assigned
[19:23] <SpamapS> ttx: because they're attached to Alpha3 work items.
[19:23] <zul> ok then
[19:23] <ttx> SpamapS: still ontrack ?
[19:23] <ttx> I'll nominate them for Maverick then
[19:24] <ttx> Bug 605001 - add grub-legacy-ec2 to uec seed (smoser ?)
[19:24] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 605001 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "add grub-legacy-ec2 to uec seed" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/605001
[19:24] <SpamapS> ttx: all await sponsorship.
[19:24] <smoser> i think mathiaz was going to do that fo rme.
=== bjf is now known as bjf[food]
[19:24] <smoser> for me even
[19:24] <ttx> Anyone expecting trouble on those bugs ?
[19:24]  * Daviey nominates 609992, not that we can do much.
[19:24] <SpamapS> ttx: the gearman package, I'd like to get sponsored into debian. Ceph is actually awaiting an upstream release but will need sponsorship as wel, and the HAproxy MIR was approved but the seed change is pending merge review.
[19:25] <ttx> Daviey: please do not nominate to alpha3 bugs that we cannot do anything about :)
[19:25] <ttx> bug 609992
[19:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 609992 in Ubuntu "[MIR] libcrypt-openssl-x509-perl" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/609992
[19:25] <ttx> Daviey: ack
[19:25] <Daviey> ttx, Well i guess my WI for that could be "chase it"
[19:25] <kirkland> ttx: okay; anything else?
[19:25] <ttx> kirkland: done
[19:25]  * hggdh wishes to nominate one... bug 610265
[19:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 610265 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "apparmor: cannot successfully start an Eucalyptus KVM instance" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/610265
[19:26] <ttx> hggdh: I'll look into it
[19:26] <hggdh> Eucalyptus 2.0 has landed ;-)
[19:26] <kirkland> hggdh: i agree -- it would be nice to get that fixed by alpha3 ISO testing
[19:26] <Daviey> (\o/)
[19:26]  * kirkland high fives davidm 
[19:26] <ttx> or Daviey
[19:26]  * kirkland high fives Daviey, too!
[19:26] <Daviey> yeah, nice work davidm ! :)
[19:27] <kirkland> okay ....
[19:27]  * mathiaz hugs the whole uec team
[19:27] <jjohansen> hggdh: the fix for 610265 is queued it should hit the kernel today
[19:27] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:27] <jiboumans> awesome work on getting 2.0 landed
[19:27] <hggdh> jjohansen: great, thank you
[19:27] <kirkland> any question for hggdh ?
[19:27] <jiboumans> hggdh: more a workload question
[19:27] <hggdh> I have some news on euca 2.0
[19:27] <SpamapS> hggdh: are you involved with the security team's unit testing framework that they use for regression testing?
[19:28] <jiboumans> you're tasked pretty heavily for Alpha3.. we moved some qa-workflow to beta
[19:28] <jiboumans> do you reckon it's managable now?
[19:28] <hggdh> SpamapS: yes, I am
[19:28] <hggdh> jiboumans: I think it is. The most critical piece is the euca testing
[19:28] <jiboumans> hggdh: agreed, and i want to make sure you have the time needed for that
[19:28] <SpamapS> hggdh: I'd like to suggest we have a papercuts like push to add more tests to that .. meant to bring it up with you in Prague. Keep it in mind... I'm thinking UDS session.
[19:28] <jiboumans> so let me know if we need to find room elsewhere
[19:29] <hggdh> jiboumans: OK. Right now I started playing with Euca 2.0, and already have 4 new bugs to hug
[19:29] <Daviey> hggdh, you rock.
[19:29] <hggdh> SpamapS: we can chat later on that
[19:30] <kirkland> hggdh: cool -- test rig running Euca2.0 ?
[19:30] <hggdh> of the 4, one is already known here, one causes instance failure to start (~10% cases), one deal with inconsistent output
[19:30] <hggdh> kirkland: yes, images from yestrday
[19:30] <hggdh> bug 610479
[19:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 610479 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "Instance fails to start" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/610479
[19:30] <kirkland> hggdh: cool
[19:31] <hggdh> and bug 610259
[19:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 610259 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "inconsistent output euca_conf and euca-describe-availability-zones" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/610259
[19:31] <kirkland> okay, hggdh anything else for us?
[19:31] <hggdh> these are not critical, but I think we should get them fixed before beta
[19:31] <kirkland> any other questions for hggdh ?
[19:31] <hggdh> kirkland: I am done
[19:31] <Daviey> The test rig has also popped firewall access through to ppa.launchpad.net, making experimental packages MUCH easier..
[19:31] <kirkland> hggdh: great, thanks;  Daviey -- you're tracking eucalyptus bugs, and will work on these as part of your normal euca-maintenance work, right?
[19:32]  * hggdh hugs Daviey
[19:32] <Daviey> kirkland, that is indeed true!
[19:32] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:32] <kirkland> jjohansen: howdy
[19:32] <jjohansen> hi
[19:33] <jjohansen> so I have a pv-ops kernel that I have just started trying to test, but I believe will work
[19:33] <zul> yay!
[19:33] <jjohansen> it is currently only setup to work with ebs
[19:33] <jiboumans> jjohansen++ # awesome
[19:33] <kirkland> there are 3 bugs in the meeting agenda ...
[19:33] <jjohansen> if my testing pans out I will issue a call for testing with instructions later today
[19:33] <kirkland> Bug 597387: Maverick EC2 kernel issue
[19:33] <kirkland> Bug 599450: getattr/apparmor breaks several packages
[19:33] <kirkland> Bug 574910: High load averages on EC2 with Lucid while idling
[19:33] <kirkland> atop kernel patch
[19:33] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 597387 in Ubuntu Maverick "pv-ops kernel only works in 3 or 4 zones in EC2" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/597387
[19:33] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 599450 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "[apparmor] getattr handled incorrectly in 2.6.35-6.7" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/599450
[19:33] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574910 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "High load averages on Lucid while idling" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574910
[19:34] <jjohansen> getattr/apparmor breaks - fix is queued and should be pulled into the kernel today
[19:34] <hallyn> woot
[19:34] <jjohansen> there has been some delay as there has been testing of the new tool chain
[19:35] <ttx> the pvops kernel should fix bug 597387 ?
[19:35] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 597387 in Ubuntu Maverick "pv-ops kernel only works in 3 or 4 zones in EC2" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/597387
[19:35] <jjohansen> correct, I hope the kernel I am just starting to test fixes pvops
[19:35] <ttx> smoser told me bug 574910 might be an illusion ?
[19:36] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574910 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "High load averages on Lucid while idling" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574910
[19:36] <ttx> just an illusion... illusion...
[19:36] <smoser> its up in the air. but jjohansen knows more.
[19:36] <jjohansen> as for High load averages on Lucid while, I have just kicked off a build of new kernel with a small config change that might help
[19:36] <smoser> that is becoming a metabug
[19:36] <jjohansen> ttx: hrmm, the more I look not just an illusion
[19:36] <smoser> for "me too" like posts of "i have high load on lucid"
[19:36] <jjohansen> though, some of it is
=== bjf[food] is now known as bjf
[19:37] <ttx> jjohansen: ok
[19:37] <SpamapS> jjohansen: no fair just replacing /proc/uptime with 'printf("%d %d", rand(9999999),rand(123456789));'
[19:37] <jjohansen> hehe, that might work :)
[19:37] <ttx> I think we reached a conclusion on the atop patchset, and that was -1 ?
[19:38]  * jiboumans sniffs
[19:38] <jiboumans> i really want the per process bandwidth monitoring
[19:38] <jjohansen> hrmm, an impass
[19:38] <smoser> s/uptime/loadavg/
[19:38] <ttx> jiboumans: write a KSLM module for it and submit for mainline ?
[19:39] <jiboumans> jjohansen: i'm equally weary though of carrying a patch that's not likely to be supported
[19:39] <jiboumans> ttx: in my copious free time
[19:39] <jjohansen> the kernel team is very relucant to take atop, and sees no reason to at this time
[19:39] <hallyn> jiboumans: we'll be attending the kslm talk at linuxcon...  maybe that'll lead to something
[19:39] <jiboumans> hallyn: mm, good
[19:39] <jiboumans> jjohansen: perhaps we should change the conversation and ask if there's a way this information could be gathered without such an objectionable patch
[19:40] <kirkland> okay ...
[19:40] <jiboumans> jjohansen: not something for now, but perhaps for next UDS
[19:40] <kirkland> anything else kernel-related?
[19:40] <jjohansen> the networking portion should be mostly available with iftop
[19:40] <jiboumans> i'm happy to table this for maverick
[19:40] <SpamapS> Yes, thats probably the next TODO.. make sure atop authors and KSLM authors understand eachother.
[19:41] <kirkland> thanks jjohansen
[19:41] <jjohansen> sounds good
[19:41] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:41] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:41] <kirkland> sommer: howdy!
[19:41] <sommer> also got the uec section updated from the wiki docs... should be in http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/uec.html tomorrow
[19:42] <sommer> all feedback greatly appreciated :-)
[19:42] <sommer> that's all for this week I think
[19:43] <jiboumans> sommer: saw you did a nice clean up too
[19:43] <ttx> kirkland: someone in UECland could review that ?
[19:43] <jiboumans> thanks for that
[19:43] <sommer> oh ya, no problem
[19:43] <kirkland> jiboumans: sure ...
[19:43] <kirkland> Daviey: can you do that?
[19:44] <Daviey> Hmm.. Not until EoW.
[19:44] <kirkland> Daviey: sure ... by next meeting?
[19:44] <Daviey> Action me!
[19:44] <kirkland> [ACTION] Daviey to review http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/uec.html
[19:44] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to review http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/uec.html
[19:45] <kirkland> I suppose I can do it too
[19:45] <kirkland> [ACTION] kirkland to review http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/uec.html
[19:45] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to review http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/uec.html
[19:45] <Daviey> 2 eyes > 1
[19:45] <kim0> 4 eyes you mean
[19:45] <Daviey> kim0, Well spotted.
[19:45] <kirkland> :-)
[19:45] <kim0> hehe
[19:45] <kirkland> sommer: anything else?
[19:45]  * mathiaz Daviey EoW -> End of *World*?
[19:46] <hallyn> yeah, i've got that scheduled for thursday.
[19:46] <sommer> kirkland: think that's it... I'll try to have more updates for next week
[19:46] <SpamapS> Crap thats like 2 years away, I can't wait that long
[19:46] <kirkland> mathiaz: End of the Wig;  Daviey is about to stop wearing a wig
[19:46] <Daviey> dammit.
[19:46] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review (zul)
[19:46] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review (zul)
[19:46] <SpamapS> Wigs? I thought Daviey was Labour for sure.
[19:47] <zul> well lets see 10.04.1 is around the corner and would appreciate an pending SRUs
[19:47] <ttx> I saw that bug 609290 was already nominated, so I didn't reply to the thread.
[19:47] <zul> also help iso testing for 10.04.1 would be nifty to
[19:47] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 609290 in apache2 (Ubuntu Lucid) "overlapping memcpy in ssl_io_input_read" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/609290
[19:47] <jiboumans> +1 on what ttx said
[19:47] <ttx> 10.04.1 -> August 12th
[19:47] <zul> ttx: yeah its supposedly fixed in 2.2.16 but I havent had time to fixe it yet
[19:48] <zul> since 2.2.16 got uploaded about an hour ago ;)
[19:48] <ttx> zul++
[19:48] <ttx> the SRUTracker is a bit empty
[19:48] <zul> but yeah ill look at it and we can probably get it in post 10.04.1
[19:48] <zul> ttx: bug that I have to fix in the SRU tracker...launchpad is sending it bad data
[19:49] <ttx> bad LP.
[19:49] <zul> + plus enhancements to it
[19:49] <mathiaz> zul: could you use Production instead of edge?
[19:49] <ttx> SRUs are kinda frozen in preparation for 10.04.1 anyway
[19:49] <zul> mathiaz: probably
[19:49] <zul> mathiaz: ill take a look at it tonight
[19:49] <ttx> we cleared the ones for 10.04.1 in meetign last week.
[19:50] <ttx> the last one in is mathiaz's openldap
[19:50] <zul> the infinite loop in mysql is one of them as well
[19:50] <ttx> which will need some testing
[19:50] <mathiaz> ttx: sitting in -proposed
[19:50] <ttx> zul: anything else ?
[19:50] <zul> ttx: not from me
[19:51] <zul> ttx: just one more thing since you are going to be on holiday you are going to have to show me what needs to be done for 10.04.1 coordination
[19:51] <kirkland> cool
[19:51] <ttx> I'm not in holiday that week.
[19:52] <zul> i thought you were?
[19:52] <zul> ok never mind then :)
[19:52] <ttx> I'm in holiday on week 16 of the schedule
[19:52] <ttx> The date moved quite a bit
[19:52] <kirkland> okay, moving along ;-)
[19:52] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Server papercuts status (ttx)
[19:52] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server papercuts status (ttx)
[19:52] <ttx> See status at: https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-3
[19:52] <ttx> Not in very good shape
[19:52] <ttx> Please take the time of fixing your assigned papercut(s) by the end of the week
[19:53] <kirkland> ttx: ack
[19:53] <ttx> if it takes too much time, it's not really a papercut.
[19:53] <kirkland> [ACTION] entire team to fix your papercuts by end-of-the-week
[19:53] <MootBot> ACTION received:  entire team to fix your papercuts by end-of-the-week
[19:53] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Daily triage backlog (ttx)
[19:53] <MootBot> New Topic:  Daily triage backlog (ttx)
[19:53] <ttx> Quick announcement here as well...
[19:54] <ttx> For some mysterious reason we collectively sucked at triaging last week
[19:54]  * hallyn is guilty
[19:54] <ttx> so there is a backlog to clear, please try to take your share
[19:54] <jiboumans> .oO( czech beer )
[19:54] <ttx> so that we can be back to normal soon
[19:54] <ttx> http://webnumbr.com/ubuntu-server-triage
[19:54] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://webnumbr.com/ubuntu-server-triage
[19:54] <kirkland> good idea, ttx
[19:54] <ttx> at 23 rigth now
[19:54] <SpamapS> Seems like the rate of bugs was high too.
[19:55] <ttx> link shows normal / vs. bad week :)
[19:55] <ttx> we get ~ 6 bugs per day looking at the graph
[19:55] <mathiaz> ttx: *18* now
[19:55] <zul> it was at 28 on monday
[19:55] <ttx> kirkland: that's all :)
[19:55] <jiboumans> while we're on it, anyone with moin clue know how to embed an iframe?
[19:55] <SpamapS> it was at 24 on Saturday and I did a few..
[19:55] <kirkland> ttx: okay, we should all pitch in
[19:55] <jiboumans> google's not been helpful on that front =/
[19:56] <Daviey> i frame!?
[19:56] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:56] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:56] <kirkland> jiboumans: now you can ask your iframe question :-)
[19:56] <jiboumans> (imagine it's part of the open discussion)
[19:56] <kim0> I have a quick announcement
[19:56] <jiboumans> krikland: i blame latency
[19:56] <Daviey> everyone welcome kim0 o/
[19:56] <ttx> kim0: you like clouds ?
[19:56] <kirkland> kim0: welcome, btw
[19:56] <kim0> ttx: I do :)
[19:56] <jiboumans> o/ kim0
[19:56] <kim0> Here I go
[19:56] <kim0> Since kirkland had pinged me in the sprint, mentioning that for a server release the first point release is the major one, wanting us to beat some drums around the 10.04.1 release.
[19:56] <Daviey> GO
[19:56] <kim0> Here's what I've done. We're launching an initiative called "Ubuntu Server marks your city" till we find a cooler name.
[19:56] <kim0> Basically, I've written a little django app that displays a world map. We'll be pushing the Ubuntu-Server users to hit that webapp, and for every user hitting, we'll display the Ubuntu logo over his city. Meaning this city has been blessed by Ubuntu server
[19:57] <kim0> The target being, by release day (mostly 15 days) we will have covered all world's major cities (hopefully:)
[19:57] <kim0> I'm should be deploying the app tomorrow over ec2
[19:57] <jiboumans> kim0: your job is cool
[19:57] <kim0> EoA
[19:57] <kim0> jiboumans: tell me about it :)
[19:57] <kirkland> kim0: neat :-)
[19:57] <SpamapS> kim0: brilliant!
[19:57] <Daviey> kim0, Rocking!  Is the source avaliable?
[19:57] <kim0> Daviey: YES
[19:57] <jiboumans> kim0: can you let us know the URL so we can tweet/dent/fb/blog the hell out of it?
[19:57] <mathiaz> IIRC we also mentioned we should update the server team meeting agenda to include a section with the community team
[19:57] <kim0> bzr branch lp:mapuntu
[19:58] <Daviey> kim0, thanks!
[19:58] <SpamapS> mathiaz: ++
[19:58] <kirkland> kim0: that's too cool
[19:58] <kim0> jiboumans: will announce tomorrow in this list
[19:58] <jiboumans> kim0: congratulations, you get your own section in the meeting going forward
[19:58] <kim0> I wanted to add a feature
[19:58] <jiboumans> well done!
[19:58] <SpamapS> oh sorry ubuntu is all about python..    +=1
[19:58] <RoAkSoAx> I also have updates in the HA team: We are back on track working on cluster related stuff. We are targeting to have the cluster in Main for this cycle
[19:58] <jiboumans> spamaps++ # hah
[19:58] <kim0> a div with tweets with ubuntu server scrolling by
[19:58] <kim0> if anyone with enough javascript karma wants to hack on that
[19:58] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, \o/
[19:58] <kim0> be my guest
[19:58] <ttx> RoAkSoAx: saw the alpha3-milestoned bug assigned to you ?
[19:59]  * ScottK has an issue to discuss.
[19:59] <ttx> redhat-cluster-suite FTBFS
[19:59] <RoAkSoAx> ttx: redhat cluster?
[19:59] <ttx> yep
[19:59] <kirkland> ScottK: please
[19:59] <ScottK> I've been working on the server piece of the Kolab spec.
[19:59] <RoAkSoAx> ttx: yep. I'll request sync, but will FTBFS again till all the other cluster packages are in main (pacemaker, cluster-glue, etc)
[20:00] <ScottK> It turns out that in order to get away from a code copy, Kolab needs a couple of php5 patches.
[20:00] <ttx> RoAkSoAx: will they all be in by alpha3 ?
[20:00] <ScottK> They look ~safe to me as they just add functions and don't change any existing functions, but I'm not the right person to review this.
[20:01] <SpamapS> ScottK: we're going to need some scaffolding to hold up our pile of php5 patches. :)
[20:01] <ScottK> Who would be the best person to review?
[20:01] <zul> ScottK: SpamapS ;)
[20:01]  * jiboumans watches zul throw his buddy under the bus
[20:01]  * SpamapS agrees
[20:01] <RoAkSoAx> ttx: I surely hope so. I'm about to start updating the MIRs, and it will just be a matter of time
[20:01] <zul> jiboumans: i only do the packaging ;)
[20:01] <mathiaz> SpamapS: are there a lot of ubuntu specific patches?
[20:01] <ttx> RoAkSoAx: ok, cool
[20:01] <ScottK> kirkland: Can we have an action for SpamapS and I to reivew Kolab php5 patches and we'll handle it offline.
[20:02] <zul> mathiaz: not for 5.3.3
[20:02] <SpamapS> yeah, zul deals with PHP drudgery.. I'm the weirdo who actually kind of likes php. ;)
[20:02] <mathiaz> SpamapS: otherwise I'd recommend to talk to the Debian maintainer
[20:02] <ScottK> (or whoever is running the meeting, I lost track)
[20:02] <kirkland> [ACTION] SpamapS and ScottK to reivew Kolab php5 patches
[20:02] <MootBot> ACTION received:  SpamapS and ScottK to reivew Kolab php5 patches
[20:02] <ScottK> kirkland: Thanks.
[20:02] <SpamapS> ScottK: whats your timezone?
[20:02] <ScottK> I'm done.
[20:02] <kirkland> okay
[20:02] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[20:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[20:02] <kirkland> Tuesday 2010-08-03 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[20:03] <kirkland> #endmeeting
</pre>
