{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Quantal Development
** Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html
* 12.04.1 Development (jamespage & smoser)
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~jamespage/server-sru/precise-sru.html|SRU Tracking]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====
* No action items

===== Quantal Development =====
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-openstack-qa]]</nowiki> (arosales, 16:06:29)
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-openstack-folsom]]</nowiki> (arosales, 16:07:54)
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-openstack-ha]]</nowiki> (arosales, 16:13:13)
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-cloud-archive]]</nowiki> (arosales, 16:13:59)
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseSchedule]]</nowiki> (smoser, 16:16:09)
* LINK: <nowiki>[[http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html]]</nowiki> is the "release-bugs" list.  (smoser, 16:17:56)

===== 12.04.1 Development (jamespage & smoser) =====

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
* LINK: <nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki> is updated with the info too  (arosales, 16:29:21)

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
Gema described UTAH, and how to add tests for it.
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/job/siva-utah-server-test/]]</nowiki> (gema, 16:31:57)
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~psivaa/+junk/server]]</nowiki> (gema, 16:32:30)
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-utah-devel]]</nowiki> (gema, 16:33:26)
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/UbuntuTestAutomationHarness]]</nowiki> (gema, 16:35:44)
* LINK: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/UbuntuTestAutomationHarness/HowToWriteGoodTestCases]]</nowiki> (gema, 16:38:43)

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
* The patch to enable nested kvm in q is in the pipe for the next precise update. (Bug: 1031090)

===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) =====
* Nothing new to report.

===== Open Discussion =====
* No discussion

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====
Next meeting will be on Tuesday, August 21st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <smoser> #startmeeting Ubuntu Server Team Meeting
[16:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug 14 16:02:50 2012 UTC.  The chair is smoser. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:02] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:
[16:03] <smoser> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:03] <smoser> #TOPIC Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <smoser> looks like none
[16:03] <smoser> woohoo
[16:03] <smoser> #topic Quantal Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Quantal Development
[16:04] <smoser> arosales, ? Daviey ?
[16:04] <arosales> smoser: may I go over some bps?
[16:04] <smoser> as long as you dont mention my deliquency
[16:04] <smoser> or my spelling.
[16:04] <arosales> we'll see :-)
[16:04] <arosales> so looking @ http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/group/topic-quantal-servercloud-overview.html
[16:05] <arosales> we are just past the half way point of the cycle
[16:05] <arosales> overall for ubuntu server blueprints for this cycle we are at 42%
[16:05] <arosales> so in the red, but not super far behind
[16:06] <arosales> I'd like to hit some of the high/essentials that are in the red to see how we are doing
[16:06] <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-openstack-qa
[16:06] <arosales> zul: you seem to be making pretty good progress there
[16:07] <arosales> feel ok for beta1?
[16:07] <Daviey> over the moon.
[16:07] <zul> yay!
[16:07] <arosales> :-)
[16:07] <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-openstack-folsom
[16:08] <arosales> also tracking ok for beta1?
[16:08] <arosales> zul, Daviey ^
[16:08] <zul> yeah looks ok
[16:08] <smartboyhw> arosales: PLease see my PM
[16:08] <arosales> along with https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-openstack-stable
[16:09] <zul> that one is not for quantal :)
[16:09] <arosales> zul servercloud-q-openstack-stable isn't?
[16:10] <arosales> jamespage: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-server-iso-tests-review tracking ok ?
[16:10] <jamespage> hmm - OK ish
[16:10] <arosales> jamespage: ok
[16:10] <jamespage> hoping to re-inject some vigour into that one after gema's update today
[16:11] <arosales> also need to follow up on the reports for https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-server-iso-tests-review
[16:11] <arosales> Ursinha: ^
[16:11] <arosales> hallyn: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-userns progressing ok?
[16:11] <Ursinha> arosales, I have reports I have to show you all :)
[16:11] <arosales> Ursinha: ah great, thanks :-)
[16:12] <jamespage> \o/
[16:12] <hallyn> arosales: that'll be going into r, but it's in progress right now yes
[16:12] <arosales> Spamaps: m_3: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-juju-charms-release-policy progressing ok
[16:12] <arosales> hallyn: thanks
[16:12] <m_3> arosales: several juju/charm blueprints need some love... they're pretty outta date
[16:12] <arosales> m_3: ok
[16:13] <arosales> I think andres is out this week
[16:13] <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-openstack-ha
[16:13] <arosales> so we'll catch HA on openstack next week unless anybody has any input
[16:13] <arosales> and Daviey cloud archive progressing ok
[16:13] <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-cloud-archive
[16:14] <arosales> smoser: that covers the high and essential bps that are in the red
[16:15] <arosales> half way point in the release :-)
[16:15] <arosales> feature freeze coming up at the end of the month
[16:15] <m_3> don't know why that comes as a surprise every time... but it does :)
[16:16] <smoser> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseSchedule
[16:16] <arosales> aug 23rd to be exact for the freeze
[16:16] <smoser> right. August 23, which seems earlier than "end of the month"
[16:16] <arosales> semantics
[16:16] <smoser> so anyway. moving on
[16:16] <arosales> :-)
[16:17] <arosales> bugs?
[16:17] <smoser> bugs?
[16:17] <smoser> http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html is the "release-bugs" list.
[16:18] <smoser> anyone want to go into more detail there?
[16:18] <smoser> #topic 12.04.1 Development (jamespage & smoser)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  12.04.1 Development (jamespage & smoser)
[16:18] <jamespage> the report is doing something odd - two of those are closed out
[16:18] <jamespage> smoser: shall I?
[16:18] <smoser> um... sure
[16:19] <Daviey> jamespage: which two?
[16:19] <jamespage> OK; so we have two updates still working through -proposed - one for openvswitch and a NEW package for walinuxagent for azure
[16:19] <jamespage> other that that all other 12.04.1 targets have pushed out to -updates
[16:19] <jamespage> ISO images will start being produced from -update soon (if not already)
[16:20] <jamespage> so expect some requests to help with testing
[16:20] <jamespage> Daviey, cobbler and python-couchdb
[16:20] <adam_g> bug #973741 seems to be stuck in progress, but id hope its targetted to 12.04.1
[16:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 973741 in openssl (Ubuntu Precise) "[SRU] segmentation fault for all https operations in libcrypto.so.1.0.0 on 'legacy' Intel Xeon CPUs" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/973741
[16:21] <jamespage> adam_g, hmm - thats not been uploaded to -proposed yet has it...
[16:21] <jamespage> or it has once
[16:22] <adam_g> jamespage: it has once, but theres a second patchset now. not sure if its fallen off the radar, or what
[16:22] <jamespage> adam_g, looks like it; its not in the server packageset so I'd not been keeping an eye on it...
[16:23] <jamespage> adam_g, leave it with me - I'll see what can be done but probably missed 12.04.1 now
[16:23] <adam_g> thanks, jamespage
[16:23] <jamespage> thats me done
[16:23] <jamespage> ...
[16:24] <jamespage> smoser?
[16:24] <Daviey> jamespage / smoser: ubuntu-cloud-keyring needs to be SRU'd to 12.04
[16:25] <Daviey> and an expected change to python-software-properties
[16:25] <jamespage> Daviey, ack; guess that will be post 12.04.1 then....
[16:25] <smoser> Daviey, can you open bugs ?
[16:26] <Daviey> smoser: I have people for that.
[16:26] <smoser> well go find one of them, and ask them to open a bug for you.
[16:26] <smoser> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:26] <Daviey> smoser: I just uploaded it to Quantal.. once it's accepted, i'll be able to open a task
[16:26] <arosales> CloudOpen at the end of the month (smoser "real" end of the month) 29-31 August
[16:27] <smoser> Daviey, ah. i was confused by the name.
[16:27] <smoser> as the cloud-images public keys just got into cloud-utils recently.
[16:27] <Daviey> hah
[16:27] <smoser> are community members receiving invittations to UDS-R now?
[16:28] <zul> i havent gotten mine...hmmmm
[16:28] <smoser> utlemming got 4
[16:28] <utlemming> I guess someone wants me to go
[16:28] <smoser> well, if they're not, i would assume that is to happen soon.
[16:28] <smoser> just for anyone reading: Ubuntu Developer Summit - R (Oct 29, 2012 - Nov 1, 2012)
[16:29] <smoser> a day has been cut off.
[16:29] <Daviey> I didn't get an invite.. so i'll stay home
[16:29] <arosales> http://uds.ubuntu.com/ is updated with the info too
[16:29] <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:29] <jamespage> gema is standing in for hggdh today to give an update on automated testing stuff...
[16:29] <gema> o/
[16:30] <gema> so I was asked for an update on UTAH and where are things with the test cases migration
[16:30] <gema> we have some functionality already working,
[16:30] <gema> we can install preseeded VMs for ISO testing
[16:31] <gema> and provision HW with cobbler within UTAH
[16:31] <gema> we are having trouble with desktop installs, but working on that this week
[16:31] <gema> we have used the iso server test cases as a starting point to migrate smoke testing
[16:31] <gema> and we have a job already working and running
[16:31] <gema> https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/job/siva-utah-server-test/
[16:32] <gema> I published a result to the external instance, but it has been running for a while
[16:32] <gema> the test code that is being run there is
[16:32] <gema> https://code.launchpad.net/~psivaa/+junk/server
[16:32] <gema> which is an initial migration of the smoke tests for server to utah
[16:33] <jamespage> gema: so how can people get involved with writing test cases/expanding the existing tests?
[16:33] <gema> we have added logging information to the test cases to make them more user friendly
[16:33] <gema> jamespage: sure, we have created a mailing list for that
[16:33] <gema> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-utah-devel
[16:33] <gema> these test cases are not in production yet, that is why they are in a personal branch somewhere, we are discussing wht the best way forward would be
[16:34] <rbasak> This is for writing tests as well as developing utah itself?
[16:34] <rbasak> (ubuntu-utah-devel)
[16:34] <gema> rbasak: yes, we don't have any external contributors yet, but we are at a point where we would be happy to get some merge requests
[16:34] <gema> the tool seems to be stable enough and off the ground for that
[16:34] <rbasak> ok
[16:35] <jamespage> gema, is there any documentation on how to get up and running with UTAH so folk can start getting a bit more involved?
[16:35] <gema> jamespage: yes and no, we have some documentation, but things are going so quickly that is gets outdated fairly quickly
[16:35] <gema> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/UbuntuTestAutomationHarness
[16:35] <gema> we are working on making the documentation insource and publishing it to a wiki somehow
[16:36] <gema> so that it can be kept up to date
[16:36] <gema> the best way to get started is to read what is in that wiki now and ask questions on the mailing
[16:36] <smoser> ready to go on ?
[16:36] <gema> we have a weekly hangout to discuss progress and I send a report to the list for further discussion
[16:36] <smoser> (sorry)
[16:37] <gema> our bootspeed testing has been migrated as well to utah
[16:37] <gema> and it is running with it
[16:37] <gema> we were having problems with the other scripts
[16:37] <gema> so that is the only production testing we are running with utah atm
[16:37] <gema> and I think that is all I have, do you guys have more questions?
[16:38] <gema> this is what we've learnt from the migration so far:
[16:38] <gema> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/UbuntuTestAutomationHarness/HowToWriteGoodTestCases
[16:39] <jamespage> gema, it would be great to get the server test cases in a team branch so people can start expanding/adding to them
[16:39] <gema> jamespage: I agree, we should probably have a meeting separate from this one so that we can fill you guys in what we did
[16:39] <gema> and what the thoughts / concerns are
[16:39] <jamespage> gema, sure
[16:39] <arosales> thanks gema for the update
[16:40] <gema> no problem
[16:40] <gema> ..
[16:40] <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:40] <smb> Hi. Well actually not really much prepared to say. The patch to enable nested kvm in q is in the pipe for the next precise update. Beside of that I have not more. Are there questions?
[16:40] <smb> ..
[16:41] <hallyn> \o/
[16:42] <hallyn> thx for that
[16:42] <smoser> nice work.
[16:42] <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:42] <rbasak> Nothing new to report. Any questions for me?
[16:44] <smoser> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Open Discussion
[16:45] <arosales> Ursinha: did you have some reports to mention here, or hold off for another time?
[16:45] <Ursinha> arosales, hold them off :)
[16:45] <arosales> Ursinha: ok, thanks
[16:46] <smoser> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:46] <smoser> next meeting is in 24*7-1 hours in most locals
[16:46] <Daviey> super, thanks smoser
[16:46] <arosales> smoser: thanks for chairing
[16:46] <smoser> Next meeting: Tuesday 2012-08-21 at 1600 UTC
[16:47] <smoser> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:47] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Aug 14 16:47:02 2012 UTC.
[16:47] <meetingology> Minutes (wiki):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-08-14-16.02.moin.txt
[16:47] <meetingology> Minutes (html):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-08-14-16.02.html
</pre>
