{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Dev Week -- Getting your app into Ubuntu (Post-release) -- stgraber -- Thu, Mar 3rd, 2011 ===

<pre>
[19:01] <stgraber> Hey everyone !
[19:02]  * stgraber hopes the bot won't die and freenode isn't as laggy as it was for the previous session ...
[19:03] <stgraber> ok, so let's start
[19:03] <stgraber> Hi everyone, I'm Stéphane Graber, an Application Review Board member.
[19:03] <stgraber> In this session, I plan on quickly explaining what the ARB does and how you can get your app on extras.ubuntu.com
[19:03] <stgraber> Please feel free to ask any question in #ubuntu-classroom-chat, prefixing them with "QUESTION: " so the bot gets them.
[19:04] <stgraber> first a quick intro on what the ARB does
[19:04] <stgraber> The Application Review Board is responsible on reviewing applications to be included in extras.ubuntu.com.
[19:04] <stgraber> These apps are extra application that are usually quite small and simple and weren't present in the archive at the time of the release.
[19:05] <stgraber> This process is mostly meant for upstream developers of a small app who wants it available in Ubuntu.
[19:05] <stgraber> Apps must be Open Source and available under an OSI approved license.
[19:05] <stgraber> These extra apps aren't supported or maintained by the Ubuntu community, it's the application author's responsability to take care of bug fixes and security updates.
[19:06] <stgraber> If for some reason this doesn't happen, the app will be removed from the repository.
[19:07] <stgraber> For new version of a package that already existed in the archive at the time of the release, the backport process should be used instead.
[19:07] <stgraber> An ARB member is assigned to each proposed app and will review it and comment on Launchpad
[19:07] <stgraber> When they are confident the app is in a good shape, it'll be submitted for vote at our next IRC meeting (every two weeks).
[19:07] <stgraber> So far for maverick, we only have one app on extras.ubuntu.com, suspended-sentence by tumbleweed
[19:08] <stgraber> we have another one that got approved and will be in extras.ubuntu.com as soon as the screenshot branch will be processed by Canonical IS
[19:08] <stgraber> this one being a news rss ticker
[19:08] <stgraber> any question so far ?
[19:10] <stgraber> ok, seems like there's none :)
[19:10] <stgraber> so I'll now quickly go through the process of getting a new app on extras.ubuntu.com
[19:11] <stgraber> First thing if you want to get your app in the extra repository is to make sure it meets our criteria.
[19:11] <stgraber> It needs to be a standalone app, run as the user, not ship with any kind of daemon and can't depend on anything that's in extra.
[19:11] <stgraber> You can't submit an app that was already in the distro at release time, even if it's a new major version.
[19:12] <stgraber> The basic process is:
[19:12] <stgraber> 1) Release your app and learn how to package it
[19:13] <stgraber> 2) Review https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppReviews
[19:13] <stgraber> 3) Update the packaging accordingly and upload your app to your PPA
[19:14] <stgraber> 4) File a bug at https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-app-review-board/
[19:14] <stgraber> 5) Wait for an ARB member to comment in the bug
[19:14] <stgraber> 6) Fix anything that needs to be fixed, updating the version in your PPA
=== cmagina-lunch is now known as cmagina
[19:15] <stgraber> 7) When the ARB member is happy with your packaging, the app will be sumitted for vote at our next meeting (you don't necessarily need to be present)
[19:15] <stgraber> 8) If it gets approved, an ARB member will ask for the screenshot branch to be merged and published, as soon as it's done (can take a while), your package will be uploaded
[19:16] <stgraber> and that's about it
[19:16] <stgraber> so far the most issues we got were with getting everything to stay in /opt except the .desktop files
[19:17] <stgraber> also, the 8th step can take quite a while (up to a month) due to the process not being automated yet, we hope to have that improved quite soon
[19:18] <ClassBot> fisch246 asked: if i was releasing a game in the extras repo, that was written in python 3.1, would that mean i couldn't ship it with python 3.1?
[19:19] <stgraber> if python 3.1 doesn't exist in the target release and you need it for your app then indeed you won't be able to get it into extra
[19:19] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: will packages in extra be automatically rolled into universe (or multiverse) for the next release?
[19:20] <stgraber> no, at least not automatically
[19:20] <stgraber> we still strongly recommend whoever uploaded something to extras to get the package in universe for the next release or even more, into Debian and synced to Ubuntu
[19:21] <stgraber> packages in extras won't be copied to the next release either
=== ghostcube_ is now known as ghostcube
[19:21] <stgraber> so it's really a good idea to get them into universe so you don't have to go through the ARB process again
[19:22] <stgraber> and so your app eventually gets into Debian and can benefit from team maintenance, the bug tracking system and more generally a larger user base
[19:22] <ClassBot> titeuf_87_ asked: when a new version of Ubuntu gets released, will all the apps need to be approved again, or that's not needed anymore?
[19:23] <stgraber> all the post-release apps will need to be reviewed again, though hopefully they'll have been pushed to universe by then and won't need to go through the post-release process again
[19:23] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: So to stay in extra, you need to re-apply on each Ubuntu version?
[19:23] <stgraber> that's correct, though we definitely don't recommend doing that ;)
[19:24] <ClassBot> barcc1 asked: Is it possible to get plugins (e.g. for gedit) in extra?
[19:25] <stgraber> good question, we didn't get any plugin in our queue yet, but I wouldn't think that'd work
[19:25] <stgraber> as the plugin would need to be in /opt and it's not likely any application like gedit would look in there for plugins
[19:26] <stgraber> also, the current criteria says "executable applications" which probably wouldn't apply to plugins
[19:26] <stgraber> but there was discussion of being able to ship unity places or similar plugins in the extras repository with unity being updated to look in /opt (not sure if that's going to happen any time soon though)
=== croppa_ is now known as croppa
[19:29] <stgraber> the current queue for post-release packages is available here: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-app-review-board/+bugs
=== apachelogger_ is now known as apachelogger
[19:30] <stgraber> and most of the documentation on how to get an app in the repository is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppReviews
[19:30] <stgraber> any other question ?
[19:31] <ClassBot> seidos asked: how is it checked that an app is secure?
[19:32] <stgraber> we usually do a full code review, if the code is considered too complex, we'll decline the app
[19:32] <stgraber> we also make sure the app won't listen on the network and won't start a daemon
[19:33] <stgraber> I also tend to run the app in a sandbox (using arkose) to check what the app reads/writes on the disk as well as network access
[19:34] <ClassBot> seidos asked: why must "question:" be capitalized?
[19:34] <stgraber> as I got your question twice, I don't think the bot is case sensitive ;)
[19:34] <ClassBot> seidos asked: do you work for ubuntu or canonical?
[19:35] <stgraber> I work on Ubuntu and Edubuntu for Revolution Linux in Sherbrooke, QC
[19:35] <ClassBot> seidos asked: which is the most secure version of ubuntu?  lts?  newest?
[19:36] <stgraber> any supported release is usually quite secure as security updates are checked for all supported versions and pushed usually at the same time to all of them too
[19:37] <stgraber> I usually always run LTS releases on the servers to get a longer life cycle
[19:37] <stgraber> and the latest stable release for desktop computers
[19:37] <stgraber> and usually whatever is the current dev release on my laptop, though running the current dev version can be dangerous both from a stability than a security point of view ;)
[19:38] <ClassBot> titeuf_87_ asked: should bugs for extra apps be submitted in launchpad? Or directly to the author of the app?
[19:38] <stgraber> packages in extras.ubuntu.com don't have a https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/<source package name/+bugs page so it's not possible to report bug against them
[19:39] <stgraber> it's usually best to contact the author/packager of the app and if it's a serious security issue and you don't get a reply, then contact the ARB directly
[19:39] <stgraber> so we can try to contact the author again or even remove the app from extras.ubuntu.com if needed
[19:40] <ClassBot> seidos asked: i have an idea for a "medicine app" who should i get in touch with?
[19:40] <stgraber> if it's an existing app you want to make available, then getting familiar with packaging and the post-release app process is probably what you should do
[19:41] <stgraber> if it's for a new non-existing app, then I honestely don't know much about the "medicine app" community to answer that question
[19:41] <stgraber> but it's probably best to contact someone who's already involved in that community to find other people to work with and start developping it
[19:43] <ClassBot> seidos asked: how can i find that community?  or would i have to create it?
[19:44] <stgraber> I'd suggest looking for similar apps in the archive, check who's writting them and try to contact one of the upstreams
[19:44] <stgraber> that's probably the best way of getting introduced to people doing something similar to what you want to do
=== _LibertyZero is now known as LibertyZero
[19:47] <ClassBot> highvoltage asked: would the ARB be open to infrastructure on Ubuntu in the future that would allow Android apps in the extras repository?
[19:49] <stgraber> interesting question
[19:49] <stgraber> we discussed it a bit at the last UDS and it's something I'd personaly be fine with
[19:50] <stgraber> though we'd probably find some way of allowing all Android apps to run then rather than having to review them one by one
[19:51] <stgraber> (making sure they're sandboxed properly so even evil/badly coded ones can't harm your system)
[19:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[19:56] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[19:56] <stgraber> ok, as there's no more question, now is time for a 5 minutes break before bdrung starts talking about the good stuff in ubuntu-dev-tools
[19:56] <stgraber> thanks everyone for attending
</pre>
