{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''':  Mon Jun 4 16:31:59 2018 UTC
* '''End''': 16:46:03
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Emily Ratliff (ratliff)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson
* leosilva
* ratliff

=== Not present ===
 <pre> comment
* mdeslaur
 </pre>
* None
=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Generalist role rotation
** CVE Triage: leosilva, Bug Triage: sarnold, Community: ratliff, Happy Place: sbeattie, mdeslaur
** Contributions
** None this week
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** turn on resquashfs tests. review-tools work to add an override mechanism
** iterate on various PRs submitted last week related to udev
** adjust snap-confine to always use a device cgroup
** work through design considerations with Gustavo Niemeyer with respect to update-alternatives (or something similar) snapd interface
** go through the anbox design and think through what proper confinement might look like
** pick up review-tools snap USNs phase1/part ii work as have time
 <pre> comment
 </pre>
** mdeslaur
** published exempi updates this morning
** in the process of publishing an apport update for 14.04
** security updates
** sbeattie
** git update
** kernel CVE triage
** embargoed issue
** updates
** jjohansen
** apparmor pull request for 4.18.
** kernel compatibility networking patches for the apparmor 2.x series
** review mjg's networking patches
** work on apparmor 3.0 release
** caching bugs
** sarnold
** MIRs
*** gce-compute-image-packages should finish this week
*** fprintd next
** profiling some pcp daemons
** !ChrisCoulson
** chromium-browser updates
** thunderbird updates
** ratliff
** embargoed and internal work
** leosilva
** procps update publication for Precise ESM
** liblouis updates
** security updates
* Highlighted packages
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2018/ubuntu-meeting.2018-06-04-16.31.moin.txt
