{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 17 Dec at 16:09 &mdash; 16:20 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-12-17-16.09.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

This meeting was particularly quiet, presumably due to the upcoming holidays.

Actions still outstanding:

* gaughen or jamespage or smoser: get all server blueprints represented at /topic-t-servercloud-overview.html

Scott linked to http://kernel.ubuntu.com/benchmarking/, which he said is really nice benchmark data that the kernel team are working on.

Robie reported on the status of upstreaming mongodb armhf and arm64 portability patches.

Due to the holidays, the next meeting will be at Tue, 7 Jan 2014 16:00:00 +0000.

=== Action items ===

* (carried over) gaughen or jamespage or smoser: get all server blueprints represented at /topic-t-servercloud-overview.html

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rbasak (26)
* smoser (5)
* meetingology (3)
* caribou_ (2)
* jamespage (2)
* psivaa (1)
* hallyn_ (1)
* smb (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:09 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:09 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Dec 17 16:09:17 2013 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:09 <meetingology> 

 16:09 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:09 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:09 * rbasak gaughen or jamespage or smoser: get all server blueprints represented at /topic-t-servercloud-overview.html (smoser, 16:04)

 16:10 <jamespage> still outstanding

 16:10 <rbasak> OK, thanks.

 16:10 <rbasak> #topic T Development Opening

 16:11 <rbasak> I've changed the agenda item to "T Development" for next time.

 16:11 <rbasak> Anything to note?

 16:11 <jamespage> alpha-1 this week

 16:11 <rbasak> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:12 <rbasak> caribou_: hi!

 16:12 <caribou_> nothing here

 16:14 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:14 <psivaa> no updates from us as well

 16:14 <rbasak> Any questions for psivaa?

 16:14 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:14 <smb> nothing to report. Are there questions?

 16:15 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:15 <smoser> hm..

 16:15 <smoser> go back one.

 16:15 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:15 <smoser> kernel team has *really* nice benchmark data that they're working on

 16:15 <smoser> http://kernel.ubuntu.com/benchmarking/

 16:16 <smoser> the data there may change formats or content, but its good too look at.

 16:16 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:17 <rbasak> I've been working on upstreaming portability patches for mongodb for armhf and arm64. This is reviewed upstream now and should land soon. Then I'll see if I can get Debian updated to a cherry-pick of the upstream patches.

 16:17 <rbasak> No other updates. Any questions for me?

 16:17 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:17 <rbasak> Christmas, I guess, is the reason why it's quiet.

 16:18 <rbasak> Any other new upcoming events?

 16:18 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion

 16:18 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:18 <caribou_> Ho Ho Ho

 16:19 <rbasak> Due to the holidays, I propose that our next meeting should be in January when we're all back. Any objections?

 16:19 <hallyn_> nope

 16:20 <rbasak> So the next meeting will be at: Tue, 7 Jan 2014 16:00:00 +0000.

 16:20 <rbasak> Looks like next on the chair rota is roaksoax, so he'll be chairing. I know roaksoax is on holiday now, so I'll let him know by email.

 16:20 <rbasak> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
