{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Updates on bug list
* Open discussion (time permitting)

=== Log ===
TZ UTC+6
{{{
04:01	BenC	Welcome everyone
04:01	BenC	only person we're missing is Tim, and he should be here any second
04:01	kylem	moo.
04:01	BenC	kylem: Please leave cows outside the channel
04:02	BenC	I leave my in the pastures, you can do the same :)
04:02	BenC	*mine
04:02	kylem	haha.
04:02	BenC	This is going to be short, no set agenda, so we'll be doing an open format
04:02	BenC	core team business first
04:03	BenC	kylem, pkl, rtg: Any issues, concerns, comments, suggestions?
04:03	kylem	BenC, have you seen the paravirt patches on linux-kernel from ingo today to clean up the issues about vdso?
04:03	pkl_	no, making slow progress on the bugs.
04:03	zul	morning
04:03	BenC	I know I still need to do the bug triage wiki :)
04:04	BenC	probably get to that this evening when we get back
04:04	rtg	Suspend to RAM has lots of problems.
04:04	pkl_	not going out in the town then? :-)
04:04	pkl_	in -> on
04:04	BenC	kylem: No, definitely interested in them though
04:05	zul	I might have a copy of i9t
04:05	BenC	pkl_: Only if invited, and only if they pay the tab :)
04:05	BenC	rtg: Yeah, we need to discuss your proposal on kernel-team@l.u.c
04:06	zul	I say disable suspend to ram ;)
04:06	BenC	rtg: I've skimmed your comments, and I think it's probably the right thing, but I need to see about what to do in userspace to enforce it
04:06	BenC	enforce it, and allow it to be enabled easily for those who want to use it
04:06	rtg	zul: I suggested that S2R be marked as experimental.
04:07	BenC	kylem: Want to look at pulling those patches in?
04:07	zul	rtg: ah cool
04:08	rtg	The patches Ben is talking about will help me track down misbehaving drivers with regard to S2R.
04:08	BenC	kylem: Oh, we already forced vdso back on for paravirt
04:08	pkl_	rtg:  The idea is to apply them to our Feisty kernel, and hopefully get them accepted upstream?
04:08	cjwatson	whoa, what's that about disabling suspend to RAM?
04:08	zul	BenC: are we thinking about xen paravirt-ops for feisty?
04:09	pkl_	rtg: Still no response from upstream?
04:09	rtg	pkl: Eventually.
04:09	BenC	zul: Has someone cleaned it up so it doesn't look like someone took a huge dump on the core kernel?
04:09	rtg	pkl: I've had some response, but have yet to propose the patches.
04:09	zul	BenC: I believe so, I havent checked recently. I can look at it this week
04:10	BenC	cjwatson: It's a huge matter of it not working for a lot of people, but this is only a suggestion at this point
04:10	cjwatson	right, but for those people for whom it does work, disabling it isn't so good ...
04:10	cjwatson	(and there are a lot of those too)
04:10	rtg	cjwatson: I'm not proposing that we disable S2R, just mark it as experimental. Its a huge regression  from Edgy.
04:11	BenC	cjwatson: Right, which is why 99% probability it wont even be considered :)
04:12	BenC	cjwatson: We're trying to get things fixed, but we're also looking at alternatives
04:12	cjwatson	given our historical user base, I think it's definitely worthwhile putting resources into fixing it where possible
04:12	rtg	cjwatson: Its all I've been working on for 3 weeks.
04:12	pkl_	Any idea when it broke?
04:12	BenC	cjwatson: mainly there are drivers breaking things, and finding them is hard
04:13	BenC	it's not S2R that is broken, it's drivers and kernel bits that are keeping things from suspending well
04:13	rtg	pkl: The breakages are due to many reasons, not just a single driver.
04:13	BenC	it locks up before the suspend is complete
04:13	pkl_	rtg: but it apparently used to work much better?  Do you know what kernel changes caused the regression?
04:14	rtg	Actually, most platforms suspend OK, it is the resume that has problems.
04:14	cjwatson	can we maybe maintain a blacklist of drivers that are known to break resume and avoid offering suspend if they're there?
04:15	cjwatson	(we only offer it conditionally as it is)
04:15	BenC	cjwatson: That's the problem...finding out which driver is causing it
04:15	cjwatson	ok
04:15	BenC	rtg's laptop produces at least one form of the problem, so he and I will work on bisecting it this week
04:16	rtg	My Dell XPS exhibits problems in core console code. thats a hard one to blacklist.
04:16	BenC	likely we'll start to uncover some similar issues elsewhere after finding one
04:16	rtg	lib_pata has been causing problems as well.
04:17	zul	do we have a list of regressions from edgy?
04:17	BenC	I think we may need to look into the libata-acpi patches
04:17	BenC	zul: launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bugs :)
04:17	zul	BenC: heh besides that
04:18	BenC	we don't have a concise list, no
04:18	zul	I can start on it.
04:19	BenC	Ok, bugs, bugs, bugs
04:19	BenC	let's work on getting the list of Unconfirmed bugs way down
04:20	BenC	as soon as I get the wiki page done, I'll post to kernel-team@ and hopefully we can get the stagnant bugs taken care of
04:20	BenC	Moving on...
04:20	BenC	Any community input, questions?
04:20	zul	I dont think so
04:21	BenC	I know we have a lot of community members interested in helping, but not sure how to help
04:21	BenC	I hope to add some more info on that to the wiki
04:21	BenC	and the bug triaging wiki page will go a long way to steering you folks into the abyss we call kernel-development :)
04:22	BenC	Looks like we'll be finished quite early today
04:23	BenC	I'll remain on until the official end of the meeting (other core are invited to as well) in case anyone pops in for a question
04:23	BenC	Thanks everyone, and have a good week
04:24	pkl_	OK.  Hope you have a fun time where you are :
)}}}
