{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=07&day=23&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jul 23rd 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* micahg
* mdeslaur
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
* Review of any previous action items
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Weekly role: community
** patch pilot
** pending updates
** review webkit maintenance
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** embargoed issue
** been working on "uvt", the python replacement for vm-tools. Will continue with that as have time
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: happy place
** embargoed issue
** pending updates
** investigating possible openjdk regression in recent update
** dbus/apparmor
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** webkit for precise should hit -proposed this week. Others next week.
** reviewing mozilla bugs
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** finish dbus/apparmor handoff to sbeattie
** investigate QRT regressions
** rcu locking rework to push upstream (part of compat removal, stacking (better LXC support) and labeling work)
** review patches on the list
** 3.5 testing
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** There are a lot of merge opportunities for packages listed in http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/d2u/. Performing these updates is a great way to help Ubuntu and bolster your developer application.

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-07-23-18.02.html
