{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   11:01 kjcole     Showtime?
   11:01 LaserJock  should be
   11:02 mdke       yeah, who is around?
   11:02 mdke       <-- Matthew East
   === kjcole is Kevin Cole
   === LaserJock is Jordan Mantha
   === rob is lurking
   === bustacap is present
   11:03 mdke       cool
   === jeffsch i'm here
   11:03 mdke       ah hey jeffsch
   11:03 mdke       let's kick off with your item :)
   11:04 jeffsch    ok
   11:04 mdke       agenda is here:
                    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/MeetingAgenda
   11:04 mdke       jeffsch, do you want to go ahead and outline your
                    proposal?
   11:04 jeffsch    C is locale for ANSI C programs
   11:05 jeffsch    doc processing tools don't always understand the C locale
   11:05 jeffsch    we should use the "en" locale as our default
   11:05 bustacap   I think the "C" locale extends beyond ANSI C programs..
   11:05 jeffsch    yeah, into GNOME docs
   11:05 bustacap   Solaris CDE uses "C" everywhere for it's desktop icons,
                    etc..
   11:06 mdke       jeffsch, what are the advantages/disadvantages?
   === robotgeek [n=robotgee@62.240.70.121] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:06 bustacap   "C" is the old school version of default..
   11:06 Mithrandir I'm semi-around, but not part of the docteam.  Tollef Fog
                    Heen
   11:06 mdke       evening robotgeek, we're just on the first agenda item
   === robotgeek is Venkat Raghavan
   === Burgwork is Corey Burger
   11:06 jeffsch    advantage is having en for use in processing tools
   11:07 Mithrandir C doesn't give you UTF8 support, for instance.
   11:07 jeffsch    xsltproc doesn't know C locale, but will use en as
                    fallover
   11:07 mdke       don't our processing tools use en anyway?
   11:07 mdke       as fallback?
   11:07 jeffsch    other tools choke on C locale
   11:08 bustacap   is there a way to move to it all to "en" and symlink C ->
                    en ?
   11:08 jeffsch    mdke: yeah, that's what those warnings are when building
                    docs
   11:08 bustacap   that's the standard practice..
   11:08 bustacap   that should cover both basis..
   11:08 jeffsch    svn can't do symlinks, iirc
   11:08 bustacap   haha yeah..
   11:08 mdke       so the disadvantages?
   11:08 bustacap   I was talking about when it is installed..
                    Are there any advantages to "C" (assuming one has control
   11:09 kjcole     over the whole universe of docs -- i.e. not worrying
                    about what Solaris or anyone else does)?
   11:09 Mithrandir kjcole: it's a fallback which any language will fall back
                    to if their normal language/locale isn't available.
   11:10 mdke       if we move to en, do we lose that fallback?
   11:10 jeffsch    a C program uses the C locale until it calls setlocale()
   11:10 jeffsch    mdke: no
   11:10 mdke       ok, so any disadvantages you know?
   11:10 jeffsch    yeah, the transition from one to the other
   11:11 mdke       shoot
   11:11 mdke       what does it take?
   11:11 jeffsch    mostly just changing C to en everywhere it occurs
                    it seems slightly unclear to me what exactly do you mean
   11:11 Mithrandir by moving from C to en.  Do you mean changing the default
                    language code of the English documentation from C to en
                    or something else?
   11:11 jeffsch    including in the omf files
   11:11 Mithrandir (like, changing the LANG setting in the build
                    environment)
   11:12 jeffsch    Mithrandir: changing <book lang="C">
   11:12 jeffsch    to <book lang="en">
   11:12 Mithrandir so the former, then.
   11:12 jeffsch    yeah
   11:13 robotgeek  a bash script can do that?
   11:13 mdke       and the place the docs are installed would have to change
                    too?
   11:13 jeffsch    yeah, anything in a C folder would be in an en folder
   11:14 Mithrandir you'd have to make sure that "en" would be fallen back to
                    if localised docs weren't available.
   11:14 bustacap   what are the processing tools that are disadvantaged by
                    the current setup?
   11:15 jeffsch    xsltproc shows a warning that it does not understand C,
                    and is using en instead
   11:15 jeffsch    the last time i used java tools, (about a year ago) they
                    choked on C locale
                    I have <!ENTITY language "en"> and <book
   11:15 LaserJock  lang="&language;"> in the packaging guide. Is that not C
                    then?
   11:15 jeffsch    &language resolves to C in global.ent
   11:16 LaserJock  so why is <!ENTITY language "en"> there?
   11:16 jeffsch    dunno
   11:16 LaserJock  I just stole it from the server guide I think
   11:16 mdke       jeffsch, how long do you estimate the transition would
                    take, and do you envisage doing it before dapper?
   11:17 jeffsch    it took me about an hour to test it on desktop guide and
                    server guide on my wc
   11:17 jeffsch    included changing and building, and fixing places i
                    forgot
   11:17 mdke       did you build a package and test?
   11:18 jeffsch    no
   11:18 mdke       would there be likely to be any problems?
   11:18 jeffsch    scrollkeeper omf files would need to be changed
   11:18 mdke       yes, and debian/install
   11:18 mdke       Mithrandir, any idea if this would produce bugs? can we
                    go ahead and do it safely pre-dapper you think?
   11:19 mdke       dholbach, your opinion too would be awesome, if you are
                    around
   11:19 jeffsch    it should be similar to adding anyother locale such as fr
   11:19 Mithrandir mdke: I don't know scrollkeeper well enough.  Try it on a
                    localised install and see what blows up?
   11:19 mdke       ok
   11:20 mdke       for me, it sounds fine, if jeffsch can test it a little
                    bit and commit, no problems here
   11:20 bustacap   the "C" fallback should be the main thing to test
   11:20 mdke       yeah
                    ok, i'll commit some stuff in the next day or so... i'll
   11:21 jeffsch    keep the images in the C folder though to keep the
                    bandwith impact lower
   11:21 mdke       svn mv shouldn't impact on bandwidth i don't think
   11:22 mdke       jeffsch, could you try a package before committing?
   11:22 jeffsch    i was thinking having the two side by side for testing
   11:22 mdke       ah
   11:22 jeffsch    i would have to learn packaging, so it would take another
                    day or so, if i find the time
   11:22 Mithrandir if you move stuff, move it properly and don't care about
                    bandwidth impact.
   11:23 jeffsch    ok
   11:23 mdke       jeffsch, just look in debian/install and change the
                    values, it's pretty obvious
                    this might need to be fixed by somebody who comes along
   11:23 Mithrandir in a year or two and the bandwidth you save today will
                    then just cause headaches then.
   11:23 jeffsch    yeah
   11:24 mdke       ok cool
   11:24 mdke       any more on this item?
   11:25 jeffsch    nope. i'll test and commit and see what happens
   11:25 mdke       great
   11:25 mdke       next item is the rearranging of the desktopguide meeting
   11:26 jeffsch    hopefully by monday
   11:26 mdke       i was hoping for a meeting on the desktopguide by those
                    who are likely to contribute
   11:27 mdke       Madpilot isn't here right now
   11:27 mdke       perhaps we can coordinate a quick meeting via the mailing
                    list?
   11:27 bustacap   I am looking at filling in a few of the TODO sections..
   11:27 robotgeek  does it count for the Kubuntu too, right?
   11:27 mdke       robotgeek, sure
   11:28 robotgeek  oaky, if the rest of the ppl aren't here, it may be best
                    to do this by mailing list/launchpad poll
   11:28 bustacap   yep
   11:28 mdke       last item then, I think
   11:28 robotgeek  scratch the poll, it's only going to be 5 ppl or so :)
   11:28 mdke       over to you bustacap
   11:29 bustacap   mdke, I am not too sure if there are many UDSF folk in
                    the room..
   11:29 robotgeek  manicka ping
   11:29 bustacap   it was a little short notice..
   11:29 mdke       was there something you wanted to raise anyhow?
   11:29 bustacap   yeah sure..
                    at the 'next' meeting, we talk with some senior members
   11:30 bustacap   of UDSF and talk about getting new help documents
                    included into the offical docs rather than being posted
                    in the forums..
   11:31 bustacap   new HowTo can be originally created into the Wiki
   11:31 bustacap   and new FAQs could be inserted into the starter guide..
   11:31 bustacap   the HowTos should be the easier of the two..
   11:32 bustacap   leaving the forum as a pure helpdesk service
   11:32 bustacap   which it is good at
   11:32 mdke       ok that is quite a complicated discussion. You'll need to
                    include the forum administrators
   11:32 bustacap   yeah..
   11:32 bustacap   most of the UDSF team are the forum admins, but yes we do
                    need them as well..
   11:32 LaserJock  do the UDSF guys want to do that?
   11:32 mdke       bustacap, no the admins are different
   11:33 bustacap   LaserJock, they are all for copying existing docs into
                    the wiki (or somebody else copying)
   11:33 bustacap   but I am talking about new docs..
   === bshumate [n=bshumate@ubuntu/member/bshumate] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   11:34 bustacap   the existing docs would take a long time..
                    LaserJock, i think it will be a long road. The first road
   11:34 mdke       is trying to convince the wiki and UDSF to merge, let
                    alone get them to scrap the howto section in the forum
   11:34 mdke       but it would be great to have the wiki and forums
                    complementing each other
   11:34 LaserJock  that's what I'm talking about. I didn't get the
                    impression that they were closing the UDSF or anything
   11:34 mdke       no, indeed
                    the wiki is already filled with great info, I feel that
   11:35 bustacap   there could be already great amounts of unneccessary
                    duplication
   11:35 Burgwork   USDF is mostly a lost cause
   11:35 LaserJock  It sounded more like the doc team was welcome to take
                    there info
   11:35 Burgwork   we need to publicize the wiki more
   11:35 bustacap   I agree on the need to promote the wiki much more in the
                    forums
   11:35 robotgeek  +1
                    that's where my main point is stemming from - there is
   11:36 bustacap   very little mention of the wikis in forum posts from the
                    "helpdesk teams"
   11:36 bustacap   the guys who answer the most questions..
   11:36 robotgeek  bustacap: i think azz on the forums mentioned that
   11:36 mdke       there is a "how to post to the wiki" guide as a sticky in
                    the howto section
   11:37 bustacap   FYI, an invite was sent out to have the UDSF guys in
                    attendance for this meeting..
   11:37 Burgwork   I spoke to them extensively after the last CC meeting
   11:37 bustacap   what was the outcome Burgwork?
   11:38 Burgwork   we agreed to disagree about goals and left it at that
                    I haven't spent much time in the forums.  Any sense of
   11:38 kjcole     the audience percentage that understands the "living"
                    nature of the wikis?
   11:38 Burgwork   kjcole, most are probably not even aware of the wiki
   11:38 mdke       bustacap, there is a bug link at the top
   11:38 mdke       bug/big
   === Bonzodog [n=bonzodog@unaffiliated/bonzodog] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:39 kjcole     Burgwork, I meant the concept, not any specific wiki.
   11:39 mdke       bustacap/burgwork
   11:39 Burgwork   mdke, links to not make awareness
   11:39 mdke       Burgwork, no, unless people click. But sometimes they do
   11:39 Burgwork   kjcole, first they have to aware it exists, and then we
                    can start thinking about having them  edit it
                    I spoke to manicka at length last night as well Burgwork,
   11:40 bustacap   but I think there needs to be a set meeting with fair
                    numbers of the ubuntu-doc team, the forum admins and the
                    UDSF team instead of 1-on-3 conversations..
   11:40 rob        sorry, what is UDSF?
   11:40 mdke       bustacap, ok you can take the lead on organising it
   11:40 mdke       rob, the gwos wiki
   11:40 rob        ah
   === rob reserves comment
   11:41 bustacap   mdke, yes, they have a wiki link to make the forums blend
                    in with the rest of the official ubuntu pages..
                    The few topics that I've looked at in the forum often end
   11:41 kjcole     up being umpteen screens worth of corrections and updates
                    to "good" answers (along with lots of little "Thank you.
                    It worked." responses.)
   11:41 kjcole     They'd really benefit from being wiki'd.
   11:41 bustacap   kjcole, I like seeing 'thank you' and 'it worked' in
                    forums when I am searching for a solution
   11:42 bustacap   yes, wikis for documentation - forums for help
   11:42 mdke       i like those wiki pages that say "discuss this guide
                    [forumlink here] "
   11:42 bustacap   mdke ++
   11:42 kjcole     bustacap, yeah, it's nice.  I wasn't saying get rid of
                    that.
   11:43 bustacap   that should be used more often in the more important wiki
                    pages
   11:43 bustacap   I will look at trying to organise a meeting between the
                    three interested parties in the near future..
   11:43 mdke       ok to draw some conclusions, bustacap, you're going to
                    organise a meeting?
   11:43 mdke       cool
   11:43 bustacap   I don't know who to contact for the forum administrators
   11:44 mdke       bustacap, you can find them on the forum
   11:44 bustacap   I mean the active senior admins..
   11:44 mdke       there is a list
   11:44 robotgeek  could we have a wiki article discussion section on the
                    forums?
   11:45 bustacap   "View Forum Leaders"
   11:45 mdke       some kinda of automatic thing would be nice, in the
                    future
   11:45 bustacap   hah, must have missed that link last night..
   11:45 Burgwork   I worry about splitting the forums up too much
                    one thing that somewhat bugs me (and maybe it's
   11:46 LaserJock  understandable) is that some of the forum admin/mods put
                    UDSF in there signatures but not the Ubuntu wiki
                    I just seems to me that there isn't that much support for
   11:47 LaserJock  the Ubuntu wiki from within the forums and I don't
                    understand why
   11:47 robotgeek  LaserJock: the explanation to that apparently is that
                    they know the answer on UDSF, but not in the Ubuntu wiki
   11:47 LaserJock  robotgeek: but those are just general advertisements
                    basically
   11:47 mdke       there are some social barriers that we can eventually
                    hope to break down
   11:47 bustacap   Burgwork, what do you mean by splitting up?
   11:48 Burgwork   bustacap, having many small forums is bad and balkanizes
                    where people look for help
   11:48 mdke       yeah, a "wiki article" section wouldn't work I don't
                    think
                    yes, there seems to be a breakaway from the official
   11:48 bustacap   community, which is bad, we don't want to become another
                    RedHat..
   11:49 Burgwork   there are a number of issues with the forums divide and
                    this is just one manifestation
   11:49 mdke       absolutely
   11:49 bustacap   sure
   11:49 mdke       I don't think we can solve it, but meetings can't hurt
   === Burgwork is busy working through another with the CC
                    yes, mdke, just making some progress and airing any
   11:50 bustacap   issues with all major players present together in the
                    same room should be a good start
   11:50 robotgeek  we don't really need a section, i guess. Wiki:WikiWord or
                    something referencing back to the wiki would work
   11:50 mdke       ok, I'm off to bed now
   11:50 bustacap   sweet, thanks mdke
   11:50 robotgeek  later mdke
   === jeffsch [n=jeff@216.210.98.99] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["gone]
   === bustacap [n=bustacap@203-206-46-153.dyn.iinet.net.au] has left
## ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
                    before I go, Burgwork and me and henrik have worked on
   11:51 mdke       the BetterWikiDocs spec, please feel free to have a look
                    and comment
   11:52 robotgeek  it is very nice, aesthetically :)
   11:53 mdke       ok -> bed
   
</pre>
