{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Please take responsibility for an item if you are adding it, thus we can turn to you when the item crops up. :)

Chair/Scribe will be: hallyn

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ttx to coordinate testing for Alpha 2
** smoser to chase IS regarding cjwatson's access and improving https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/Publishing
** jjohansen to ask kamal to email ubuntu-server mailing list with results of atop patchset
** jjohansen, tim or andy to email ccheney and Daviey with test kernels for bug #588861
** People to subscribe to the test coverage for http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
** hggdh to email interested parties about the results of the ppa euca build
** jjohansen to follow up on bug #TBC - EC2 kernel (lucid/maverick kernel ?)
** zul to mail the ubuntu-server mailing list with the SRU nomination process, and document his process from there
* Maverick development (ttx)
** Alpha2 <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html|subcycle status]]</nowiki>: Specs should at 90-100% completion now (flag remaining work items needing to be postponed) 
** Alpha2-milestoned <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone=27560|bugs]]</nowiki>:
*** Bug Bug:588410: dynamic block storage should use virtio
*** Bug Bug:595421: Eucalyptus doesn't start with latest stable version of "Groovy"
*** Bug Bug:574554: tgtd needs init script or upstart job
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-3.html|Alpha3 subcycle]]</nowiki> starts Friday
* Alpha2 <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all|ISO testing coverage]]</nowiki> (ttx)
** smoser: EC2 images
** kirkland/Daviey/ccheney: Maverick UEC topologies, UEC Maverick images (on Lucid UEC), Netboot tests
** hallyn/mathiaz/SpamapS/zul: non-UEC Ubuntu Server tests, Upgrade server
** ttx/hggdh: random testing, cover holes in testing, replace missing people
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** Bug Bug:588861: "pad block corrupted" error with >=2.6.34 kernel
** atop kernel patch
** Maverick EC2 kernel issue (LP: #??)
** Bug Bug:576066: ums-cypress.ko missing from server installer
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Papercuts status (ttx)
** Alpha2 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-2|iteration final status]]</nowiki>
** Alpha3 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-3|iteration]]</nowiki> starts Friday, assign yourself
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (zul)
** New <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html|SRU Tracker]]</nowiki>
** New SRU process ?
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-07-06 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

Please feel free to add more items to the agenda for the next meeting. We will discuss them in turn when it arrives.

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* ttx to coordinate testing for Alpha 2
** done
* smoser to chase IS regarding cjwatson's access and improving
** done
* jjohansen to ask kamal to email ubuntu-server mailing list with results of atop patchset
** kamal did basic testing
** jjohansen emailed jos, and ttx, and sent an email to k-t for discussion
** [ACTION] jjohansen to send email regarding atop patchset
* jjohansen, tim or andy to email ccheney and Daviey with test kernels for bug #588861
** this was DONE and fixed.
** Daviey notes that the kernel team and ccheney rock
* hggdh to email interested parties about the results of the ppa euca build
** tests still being run on latest & greatest version of the patch. So far, so good
** right now, ~400 instances, no issue
* jjohansen to follow up on bug #TBC - EC2 kernel (lucid/maverick kernel ?)
** Launchpad bug 597387 in Ubuntu "pv-ops kernel only works in 3 or 4 zones in EC2" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/597387
* zul to mail the ubuntu-server mailing list with the SRU nomination process, and document his process from there
** done

===== Maverick development (ttx) =====
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html
* Specs should be at 90-100% now
* Alpha2-milestoned bugs
** Launchpad bug 588410 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "dynamic block storage should use virtio" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588410
** Launchpad bug 595421 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "Eucalyptus doesn't start with latest stable version of "Groovy"" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/595421
** Launchpad bug 574554 in tgt (Ubuntu Maverick) "tgtd needs init script or upstart job" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574554
* Alpha3 subcycle starts Friday
** http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-3.html
** [ACTION] mathiaz to provide work items for Alpha3 on his specs by Thursday
* Launchpad bug 586638 in libmemcached (Ubuntu) "[MIR] libmemcached" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/586638
** SpamapS to ask kees whether it's good to seed

===== Alpha2 ISO testing coverage (ttx) =====
* alpha2 milestone candidates should hit us RSN
** smoser will cover the EC2 images
** kirkland/Daviey/ccheney: Maverick UEC topologies, UEC Maverick images (on Lucid UEC), Netboot tests
** hallyn/mathiaz/SpamapS/zul: non-UEC Ubuntu Server tests, Upgrade server
** ttx/hggdh: random testing, cover holes in testing, replace missing people
** ttx will replace mathiaz

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====
* Launchpad bug 588861 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) ""pad block corrupted" error when trying to register an image with 2.6.34 kernel" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588861
* atop kernel patch
** will send email to server list
* Maverick EC2 kernel issue
** at this point we'll have Lucidish kernels in A2
** we will have a kernel for A3
* Launchpad bug 576066 in linux (Ubuntu) "ums_cypress missing from lucid server cd" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/576066
** jjohansen will prioritize appropriately

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====
* ttx: sommer: did you fix the refresh issue ?
** [ACTION] sommer to ping mdke again, through email this time

===== Papercuts status (ttx) =====
* 14 targets - 10 fixed, 2 postponed, 2 invalidated
* ttx processed the numerous nominations for A3 and decided to choose 18 among the 18 valid ones
** https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-3
** You should each have ~2 bugs assigned to you in that list
** [ACTION] everyone to assign themselves to 2 papercuts from https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-3

===== Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (zul) =====
* http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
* Launchpad bug 576949 in mysql-dfsg-5.1 (Ubuntu) "[lucid] LOAD DATA INFILE fails in replication, simple patch available in 5.1.43" [Medium,In progress]
** zul+ttx agree it is a candidate
* Launchpad bug 597818 in dovecot (Ubuntu) "Include files parsed in reverse order" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/597818
** zul says looks good to him
* Launchpad bug 589056 in net-snmp (Ubuntu) "snmpd fails to upgrade" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/589056
** ttx will nominate for lucid

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, July 6th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:00] <hallyn> #startmeeting
[19:00] <Daviey> ttx: I thought the deal was scribe + chair?
[19:00] <hallyn> hm, didn't work
[19:00] <ttx> yes, it's scribe+chair, the same meeting
[19:00]  * SpamapS hugs hallyn :)
[19:00] <ttx> MootBot is not around
[19:00] <hallyn> how do we start it?
[19:01] <Daviey> hallyn: We'll have to do without :(
[19:01] <ttx> hallyn: you don't, you do without !
[19:01] <hallyn> uh, ok
[19:01] <ttx> first time driving, and no brakes
[19:01] <hallyn> i'll just pretend it's there
[19:01] <ttx> I'm sure daviey can emulate the bot
[19:01] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:01] <Daviey> Meeting started at 07:59. The chair is hallyn :)
[19:01] <hallyn> ttx to coordinate testing for Alpha 2
[19:02] <ttx> added as an agenda item, will be covered during this meeting
[19:02] <ttx> so consider it DONE
[19:02] <hallyn> cool
[19:02] <hallyn> smoser to chase IS regarding cjwatson's access and improving
[19:02] <ttx> <smoser> DONE
[19:02] <hallyn> cooler
[19:02] <ttx> (I'll proxy smoser
[19:02] <ttx> )
[19:02] <hallyn> jjohansen to ask kamal to email ubuntu-server mailing list with results of atop patchset
[19:03] <hallyn> so the email, so i assume that's done
[19:03] <ttx> ah?
[19:03] <hallyn> oh no
[19:03] <jjohansen> right, he did basic testing and handed it back to me
[19:03] <hallyn> so status?
[19:03] <jjohansen> I emailed jos, and ttx, and sent an email to k-t for discussion
[19:03] <ttx> jjohansen: so it's still todo, but on your side ?
[19:03] <jjohansen> yes, the discussion is really been stalled by alpha2
[19:04] <ttx> jjohansen: ack
=== bjf[afk] is now known as bjf
[19:04] <hallyn> so action for next week, or wait until alpha3 to do that?
[19:04] <jjohansen> I will send a mail today
[19:04] <jjohansen> Basically server team needs to decide if atop is worth it
[19:04] <hallyn> [ACTION] jjohansen to send email regarding atop patchset
[19:05] <hallyn> ok, thanks, moving on
[19:05] <hallyn> jjohansen, tim or andy to email ccheney and Daviey with test kernels for bug #588861
[19:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588861 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) ""pad block corrupted" error when trying to register an image with 2.6.34 kernel" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588861
[19:05] <hallyn> that was fully bisected right?
[19:05] <ttx> this was DONE and fixed.
[19:05] <Daviey> Yup.. the kernel team and ccheney rock!
[19:05] <jjohansen> yeah, tim rocks
[19:06] <hallyn> rockin'
[19:06] <hallyn> People to subscribe to the test coverage for http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[19:06] <hallyn> ttx: do you know if everyone is subscribed?  :)
[19:06] <ttx> not really DONE, so I decided to split the work myself, see below
[19:06] <ttx> (makes more sense anyway√É 
[19:06] <ttx> )
[19:07] <hallyn> ok i see it thx
[19:07] <hallyn> hggdh to email interested parties about the results of the ppa euca build
[19:07] <hggdh> tests still being run on latest & greatest version of the patch. So far, so good
[19:08] <Daviey> \o/
[19:08] <hallyn> so carry over?
[19:08] <ttx> hallyn: no
[19:08] <hggdh> I hope I will have a position in about 30 min
[19:08] <hggdh> right now, ~400 instances, no issue
[19:08] <Daviey> Keep in mind that upstream just confirmed that they aren't *entirely confident* it fixed it.. but think it has
[19:09] <hggdh> considering we started with failures in less than 100 instances, this is a big improvement
[19:09] <hallyn> so... the tests are still running...  any action to track?
[19:09] <ttx> hallyn: no
[19:09] <hallyn> k
[19:09] <hallyn> jjohansen to follow up on bug #TBC - EC2 kernel (lucid/maverick kernel ?)
[19:09] <Daviey> ^^ a bug was opened about that.
[19:09] <ttx> Daviey: LP:#?
[19:10] <jjohansen> give me a sec, to find it again
[19:10] <Daviey> it was at the end of the last meeting.. /me glares at the scribe :)
[19:10] <jjohansen> Bug #597387
[19:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 597387 in Ubuntu "pv-ops kernel only works in 3 or 4 zones in EC2" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/597387
[19:11] <jjohansen> I have a new kernel I am building and will be testing in just a little but
[19:11] <jjohansen> s/but/bit/
[19:11] <ttx> jjohansen: ok, we'll discuss that later in the meeting
[19:11] <hallyn> ok thanks.  moving on
[19:11] <hallyn> zul to mail the ubuntu-server mailing list with the SRU nomination process, and document his process from there
[19:12] <zul> done
[19:12]  * hallyn craftily evades Daviey's glare
[19:12] <hallyn> ok, thanks
[19:12] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Maverick development (ttx)
[19:12] <ttx> Alpha2 subcycle status
[19:12] <ttx> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html
[19:12] <ttx> Specs should be at 90-100% now
[19:12] <ttx> Only two days left
[19:13] <ttx> Please see the remaining work items and let me know if you can't make it
[19:13] <ttx> Alpha2-milestoned bugs
[19:13] <hallyn> so all must be done by EOD thursday?  or start of day?
[19:13] <ttx> the sooner the better -- there are a few documentation items that can be completed eod
[19:13] <ttx> (or bug triage)
[19:14] <ttx> Bug 588410: dynamic block storage should use virtio
[19:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588410 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "dynamic block storage should use virtio" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588410
[19:14] <ttx> Bug 595421: Eucalyptus doesn't start with latest stable version of "Groovy"
[19:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 595421 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "Eucalyptus doesn't start with latest stable version of "Groovy"" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/595421
[19:14] <Daviey> It was fixed in bzr ages ago, pending a 1.7 upload.  However, that has been blocked by some known issues.  Therefore i'm doing an unwanted of upload of 1.6.2 with the 2 fixes for Bug 588410 and Bug 595421 before EoD.
[19:14] <SpamapS> ttx: I have a lot of MIR's that are still under consideration/undone .. do those have to be accepted into main by thursday?
[19:14] <ttx> Daviey:  good !
[19:15] <ttx> SpamapS: it's part of the feature delivery, so yes... but that's hardly your fault if you pushed them as much as you could
[19:15] <ttx> SpamapS: if we have to postpone such items, I can bring it to the release meeting to point out a resource shortage
[19:16] <ttx> (but it's a well known one)
[19:16] <ttx> Bug 574554: tgtd needs init script or upstart job
[19:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574554 in tgt (Ubuntu Maverick) "tgtd needs init script or upstart job" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574554
[19:16] <ttx> same situation here
[19:16] <SpamapS> ttx: I'll poke them all today then.
[19:16] <ttx> though I wonder why this one was targeted to alpha-2
[19:16] <hggdh> if I may interrupt -- test run completed, 400 instances, no occurrence of the metadata issue. Of course, we are talking about a race, but I vote we consider it a success
[19:16] <ttx> Daviey: any clue ?
[19:17] <Daviey> \o/
[19:17] <hallyn> w00t
[19:17] <ttx> Daviey: you need tgtd for something in UEC ?
[19:17] <Daviey> ttx: nothing to do with me :/
[19:17] <ttx> ... ok
[19:17] <zul> i have to update the tgtd upstart script
[19:17] <ttx> will ask kirkland when I get a chance
[19:18] <ttx> Alpha3 subcycle starts Friday
[19:18] <Daviey> Hmm.. iSCSI is on our roadmap.. but i wasn't aware tgtd was a target for A2
[19:18] <ttx> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-3.html
[19:18] <ttx> Please have a look at your specs and make sure the work items for Alpha-3 are current
[19:18] <ttx> I already had a look and most of them are ok, except mathiaz's ones
[19:19] <SpamapS> ttx: bug#586638  .. do I need to do something to complete the MIR? Kees gave it a +1
[19:19] <ttx> [ACTION] mathiaz to provide work items for Alpha3 on his specs by Thursday
[19:19] <SpamapS> bug 586638
[19:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 586638 in libmemcached (Ubuntu) "[MIR] libmemcached" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/586638
[19:19] <Daviey> ttx: Hmm.. I wasn't aware server-maverick-uec-monitoring was re-assigned to me :/
[19:19] <ttx> SpamapS: ask him if it's good to seed or if it was just a security ack
[19:20] <ttx> SpamapS: zul can handle the seeding for you if that's all what is needed
[19:20] <zul> ack
[19:20] <ttx> Daviey: sync with kirkland on that one
[19:21] <Daviey> ttx: will do
[19:21] <ttx> hallyn: done
[19:21] <hallyn> [TOPIC] ISO testing coverage (ttx)
[19:21] <hallyn> uh,
[19:21] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Alpha2 ISO testing coverage (ttx)
[19:21] <ttx> ok, so alpha2 milestone candidates should hit us RSN
[19:21] <hallyn> and we just start getting emails?
[19:22] <ttx> I split the team in subteams to make sure we do a complete coverage of server deliveries
[19:22] <ttx> hallyn: yes, we should
[19:22] <ttx> (if you're assigned to at least one test)
[19:22] <ttx> smoser will cover the EC2 images
[19:22] <hallyn> (which i am) cool, thx
[19:22] <ttx> kirkland/Daviey/ccheney: Maverick UEC topologies, UEC Maverick images (on Lucid UEC), Netboot tests
[19:22] <ttx> hallyn/mathiaz/SpamapS/zul: non-UEC Ubuntu Server tests, Upgrade server
[19:22] <ttx> ttx/hggdh: random testing, cover holes in testing, replace missing people
[19:23] <zul> yay!
[19:23] <Daviey> zul: If you get bored, i'm sure we can find some UEC tests for you! :)
[19:23] <ttx> the last team needs to get a picture of the general QA level, so it's more free-form
[19:23] <ttx> that said, we know that hggdh will concentarte on UEC
[19:23] <ttx> for the time being
[19:23]  * hggdh sighs ;-)
[19:24] <ttx> and I'll replace mathiaz
[19:24] <ttx> for A2
[19:24] <ttx> Just coordinate with members of your subteam to avoid duplicate testing
[19:24] <Daviey> poor mathiaz
[19:24] <ttx> (deuplicate testing is good, but once we are at 100% coverage)
[19:24] <kirkland> ttx: zul: re: tftd upstart script, not required for A2, I targeted it there as I thought zul/ccheney might be able to accomplish it within their given resources for A2; postponing to A3 is fine by me
[19:24] <ttx> kirkland: ok, thanks
[19:25] <hallyn> moving on?
[19:25] <ttx> If any of this coordination is unclear, let me know
[19:25] <ttx> also ISO testing is open to everyone... this is just to ensure that all tests are covered by at least one person :)
[19:25] <ttx> hallyn: yes
[19:26] <hallyn> thanks
[19:26] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:26] <zul> if a tree falls in a forest...
[19:26] <hggdh> I spent the last week on a sprint in Lexington; most work done, some left-overs to look at
[19:27] <hallyn> anyone have any questions?
[19:27] <hggdh> during this time I kept on testing the metadata fix(es)
[19:28] <hallyn> (going once, going twice)
[19:28] <hallyn> thanks hggdh
[19:28] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:28] <hallyn> Bug 588861: "pad block corrupted" error with >=2.6.34 kernel
[19:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588861 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) ""pad block corrupted" error when trying to register an image with 2.6.34 kernel" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588861
[19:28] <Daviey> (\o/)
[19:28] <hallyn> lol, we just wanted to see the 'fix committed' :)
[19:28] <jjohansen> :)
[19:28] <hallyn> atop kernel patch
[19:29] <hallyn> we're just waiting for the email to discuss there?
[19:29] <ttx> yes
[19:29] <jjohansen> its been built and tested email to server team list for discussion being composed
[19:29] <ttx> see if there is a real interest in this
[19:29] <hallyn> any other questions for or from jjohansen ?
[19:29] <ttx> Maverick EC2 kernel issue
[19:30] <ttx> so at this point we'll have Lucidish kernels in A2
[19:30] <jjohansen> right
[19:30] <ttx> (for cloud images)
[19:30] <ttx> The idea would be to fix that for A3 ?
[19:30] <zul> heh
[19:30] <ttx> or another plan ?
[19:30] <jjohansen> yes we will have a kernel for A3
[19:30] <jjohansen> it is likely to be the full xen kernel,
[19:31] <ttx> ok, I'll mark that bug appropriately
[19:31] <ttx> fianlly wanted to raise to your attention:
[19:31] <ttx> Bug 576066: ums-cypress.ko missing from server installer
[19:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 576066 in linux (Ubuntu) "ums_cypress missing from lucid server cd" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/576066
[19:31] <ttx> Sounds like a good thing to fix for 10.04.1
[19:32] <ttx> jjohansen: can you prioritize it appropriately ?
[19:32] <jjohansen> yes
[19:32] <ttx> ok, I'm done :)
[19:32] <hallyn> moving on
[19:32] <hallyn> (thanks, jjohansen :)
[19:33] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:33] <sommer> don't have anything new myself...
[19:33] <Daviey> sommer: You rock.
[19:33] <sommer> if anyone else does though feel free
[19:33] <ttx> sommer: did you fix the refresh issue ?
[19:33] <hallyn> i have a feeling i should have a question at some point oabout lxc, but need to read up on processes first...
[19:33] <sommer> Daviey: :-)
[19:34] <sommer> ttx: I'll ping mdke again, through email this time
[19:34] <ttx> sommer: ok :)
[19:34] <hallyn> thanks sommer
[19:34] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Papercuts status (ttx)
[19:34] <sommer> thank you all
[19:34] <Daviey> sommer: Agg!
[19:34] <Daviey> hold fire!
[19:34] <ttx> Alpha2 iteration is finished
[19:35] <ttx> 14 targets - 10 fixed, 2 postponed, 2 invalidated
[19:35] <Daviey> sommer: Hmm, an update you mentioned in a bug didn't seem to go live.. do you know what happend?
[19:35] <ttx> I processed the numerous nominations for A3 and decided to choose 18 among the 18 valid ones
[19:35] <ttx> (tough choices involved)
[19:35] <sommer> Daviey: was it fixed in maverick or lucid?
[19:35] <ttx> https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-3
[19:36] <ttx> You should each have ~2 bugs assigned to you in that list
[19:36] <ttx> The easy ones are going fast :)
[19:36] <hallyn> so [ACTION] everyone pick 2 or 3 papercuts?
[19:36] <ttx> This iteration ends up Aug 2nd
[19:37] <ttx> hallyn: yes
[19:37] <ttx> say, 2
[19:37] <hallyn> ok, thanks
[19:37] <ttx> [ACTION] everyone to assign themselves to 2 papercuts from https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-3
[19:37] <hallyn> moving on?
[19:37] <ttx> yep
[19:37] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (zul)
[19:38] <hallyn> is that moot given new email process?
[19:38] <ttx> well, I haven't seen the monday email yet
[19:38] <zul> starting next week :)
[19:38] <hallyn> i thought i saw it last night
[19:38] <ttx> so I figure we are still up for this one
[19:38] <hallyn> (wow, what on earth is going on with me and my mbox)
[19:38] <zul> so one is nominated for lucid
[19:39] <zul> #576949
[19:39] <hallyn> where are the bots to expand bug # 576949
[19:39] <zul> i think its a good candidate
[19:39] <hallyn> huh
[19:39] <ttx> zul:  looks like a good one
[19:39] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-dfsg-5.1/+bug/576949
[19:39] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 576949 in mysql-dfsg-5.1 (Ubuntu) "[lucid] LOAD DATA INFILE fails in replication, simple patch available in 5.1.43" [Medium,In progress]
[19:40] <SpamapS> bots like it as bug 576949
[19:40] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 576949 in mysql-dfsg-5.1 (Ubuntu) "[lucid] LOAD DATA INFILE fails in replication, simple patch available in 5.1.43" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/576949
[19:40] <hallyn> :)
[19:40] <zul> and last 8 days bug
[19:40] <zul> bugs even
[19:40] <zul> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[19:41] <zul> bug 597818 597818 looks good to me
[19:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 597818 in dovecot (Ubuntu) "Include files parsed in reverse order" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/597818
[19:42] <ttx> does bug 589056 need to be fixed in lucid ?
[19:42] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 589056 in net-snmp (Ubuntu) "snmpd fails to upgrade" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/589056
[19:42] <zul> yes i think so
[19:42] <ttx> ok, nominate it
[19:42] <zul> k
[19:43] <ttx> I think we are done
[19:43] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:43] <Daviey> nothin' 'ere
[19:43] <ttx> Did everyone but hggdh lose in soccer ?
[19:43] <hggdh> :-)
[19:43]  * hallyn pouts
[19:43] <Daviey> ttx: Your team lost first :)
[19:43] <zul> i did...
[19:44] <hggdh> heh
[19:44] <ttx> Daviey: always first.
[19:44] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:44] <Daviey> Germany did teach our country a lesson.. that we suck.
[19:44] <ttx> Daviey: and we lost with lots of panache.
[19:44] <hallyn> Tuesday 2010-07-06 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:44] <SpamapS> sorry I was a little slow reading SRU's, bug 575458 looks worthy of consideration
[19:44] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 575458 in ntp (Ubuntu) "/etc/dhcp3/dhclient-exit-hooks.d/ntp breaks local NTP server (patch)" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/575458
[19:44] <hggdh> and -- please keep in mind -- next friday I will sort of busy in the morning
[19:45] <ttx> SpamapS: good catch
[19:45] <hallyn> hm, yeah
[19:45] <ttx> zul ^
[19:45] <zul> acked
[19:46] <hallyn> anything more to discuss?
[19:46] <ttx> nope
[19:47] <hallyn> #endmeeting (thanks, DavieyBot)
[19:47] <Daviey> hah.
[19:47] <hallyn> Daviey: so i gather i'm scribe again this week then right?
[19:47] <Daviey> hallyn: no, SpamapS should be
[19:47] <ttx> hallyn: yes
[19:47] <ttx> Daviey: no
[19:48] <hallyn> Daviey took advantage of me last week :)
[19:48] <hallyn> np, thanks
[19:48] <Daviey> ttx: ok -> lets chat about it :)
</pre>
