{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 15 Aug at 16:02 &mdash; 16:27 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-08-15-16.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

** ''ACTION:'' nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)
** ''ACTION:'' nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)
** ''ACTION:'' rbasak to add maintainership info to mysql triage page (carried over)

==== Artful Development ====
The discussion about "Artful Development" started at 16:06.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtfulAardvark/ReleaseSchedule 
** feature freeze is Aug 24th!
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/outstanding-server-merges is our merge list
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/outstanding-server-merges 
* '''Current Work''' (16:09)
** ''LINK:'' https://trello.com/b/U9HhWyT0/daily-ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-aa-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (slashd, ddstreet) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (slashd, ddstreet)" started at 16:11.

** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging/GitWorkflow 
** ''LINK:'' https://insights.ubuntu.com/2017/07/24/developing-ubuntu-using-git/ 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:15.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:16.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:18.

** ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://www.open-zfs.org/wiki/OpenZFS_Developer_Summit 

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:20.

** Any suggested things people would like to see in 18.04 on the server side, please do give us feedback on IRC, or at ubuntu-server@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:23.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Merge_Proposals_and_Reviewing 

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:25.

** Next meeting Tuesday, 2017-08-22 at 1600 UTC, chair will be rbasak

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* nacc
** nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)
** nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* dpb1 (75)
* ahasenack (10)
* cpaelzer (8)
* meetingology (6)
* slashd (6)
* powersj (5)
* meetingology` (5)
* smb (3)
* rharper (2)
* nacc (1)
* ubottu (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:02 <dpb1> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug 15 16:02:42 2017 UTC.  The chair is dpb1. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology> 

 16:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:02 <meetingology`> Meeting started Tue Aug 15 16:02:42 2017 UTC.  The chair is dpb1. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology`> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:03 <dpb1> welcome all

 16:03 <dpb1> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <dpb1> * nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:03 <dpb1> * nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:03 <dpb1> * rbasak to add maintainership info to mysql triage page (carried over)

 16:03 <dpb1> robie's of course we carry, nacc, yours?

 16:05 * dpb1 takes silence as agreement, carries

 16:05 <dpb1> #action nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:05 * meetingology nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:05 * meetingology` nacc to write a release notes entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:06 <dpb1> #action nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:06 * meetingology nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:06 * meetingology` nacc to write a server guide entry on ipv6 netboot (carried over)

 16:06 <dpb1> #action rbasak to add maintainership info to mysql triage page (carried over)

 16:06 * meetingology rbasak to add maintainership info to mysql triage page (carried over)

 16:06 * meetingology` rbasak to add maintainership info to mysql triage page (carried over)

 16:06 <dpb1> #topic Artful Development

 16:06 <dpb1> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtfulAardvark/ReleaseSchedule

 16:06 <ahasenack> two bots again

 16:06 <dpb1> double meeting notes!

 16:06 <dpb1> will be exciting

 16:06 * rharper likes the prime one

 16:07 <dpb1> feature freeze is coming up!

 16:07 <dpb1> Aug 24th

 16:07 <ahasenack> aug 24th

 16:07 <rharper> whoa

 16:07 <dpb1> #info feature freeze is Aug 24th!

 16:07 <dpb1> We did a first pass at packages we wanted to sync before feature freeze

 16:08 <ahasenack> http://pad.ubuntu.com/outstanding-server-merges is our merge list

 16:08 <dpb1> cpaelzer, ahasenack, nacc: anything to add there?

 16:08 <dpb1> thanks!

 16:08 <ahasenack> dynamic merge list

 16:08 <dpb1> was just looking for that link

 16:08 <dpb1> #link http://pad.ubuntu.com/outstanding-server-merges

 16:08 <cpaelzer> I'll tackle a few tmrw of the remaining one

 16:09 <dpb1> #subtopic Current Work

 16:09 <dpb1> #link https://trello.com/b/U9HhWyT0/daily-ubuntu-server

 16:09 <dpb1> and of course

 16:09 <dpb1> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-aa-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:09 <cpaelzer> I've heard of partners starting more tests - but no flurry of new issues related to that yet

 16:10 <dpb1> OK, let's move on, quiet day.  Maybe the lack of a nice hot camp fire this week is bumming people out

 16:11 <dpb1> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (slashd, ddstreet)

 16:11 <nacc> dpb1: yes, sorry, carry forward

 16:11 <slashd> Business as usual for us, the only think I can think of is this bug (LP: #1657256), if a CoreDev have some cycle to sponsor the patch from my colleagues niedbalski for devel release.

 16:11 <dpb1> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:11 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1657256 in percona-xtradb-cluster-5.6 (Ubuntu) "Percona crashes when doing a a 'larger' update" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1657256

 16:11 <dpb1> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:11 <dpb1> slashd: btw, have you looked at the git-ubuntu subcommand yet?

 16:12 <slashd> dpb1, no I don't remember this discussion can you refresh my mind ?

 16:12 <dpb1> slashd: I don't think it's ever been directly mentioned to you

 16:13 <slashd> dpb1, ok I'll gladly have a look

 16:13 <dpb1> slashd: when you have spare cycles.  just read up

 16:13 <dpb1> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging/GitWorkflow

 16:13 <powersj> and https://insights.ubuntu.com/2017/07/24/developing-ubuntu-using-git/

 16:13 <slashd> dpb1, sure thanks

 16:13 <dpb1> #link https://insights.ubuntu.com/2017/07/24/developing-ubuntu-using-git/

 16:14 <dpb1> slashd: might want to ping the openstack guys on that one, btw

 16:14 <dpb1> (the bug you raised)

 16:14 <slashd> dpb1, ack will do someone in particular ?

 16:14 <dpb1> slashd: probably start with beisner

 16:15 <slashd> dpb1, ok thanks

 16:15 <dpb1> ok, moving on

 16:15 <dpb1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:15 <dpb1> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/

 16:15 <powersj> Last week I attended DebConf17 and gave a talk on cloud-init: https://debconf17.debconf.org/talks/164/

 16:15 <dpb1> woop woop

 16:15 <powersj> This week I have finished setting up the new Xenial based VM slaves for jenkins and getting back to the cloud-init KVM backend. All that is left is figuring out the right set of commands to use with subp and mount-image-callback. Running into quote hell.

 16:15 <ahasenack> what's subp?

 16:15 <powersj> python subprocess

 16:16 <ahasenack> k

 16:16 <cpaelzer> "call a command"

 16:16 <dpb1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)

 16:16 <smb> Artful kernel: 4.12 is in proposed (but its hard to say when exactly that can get out), 4.13 in progress (waiting for some apparmor updates). Any questions?

 16:16 <dpb1> smb: what's the hard to say bit?

 16:16 <cpaelzer> smb: do you have a link what new in apparmor is coming?

 16:17 <smb> dpb1, hard to say when aa 's are happy

 16:17 <dpb1> ah, the moods of the AAs

 16:17 <smb> cpaelzer, not right now

 16:17 <cpaelzer> ok

 16:18 <dpb1> Thanks smb

 16:18 <dpb1> (oh, and thanks for the update slashd, sorry missed you earlier)

 16:18 <dpb1> powersj doesn't get thanks

 16:18 <dpb1> ;)

 16:18 <dpb1> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:18 <powersj> lol

 16:18 <dpb1> #link https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/

 16:18 <dpb1> #link http://www.open-zfs.org/wiki/OpenZFS_Developer_Summit

 16:19 <dpb1> Any other CFPs we should call out here of interest to the server crowd?

 16:20 <dpb1> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:21 <dpb1> I wanted to mention here

 16:21 <dpb1> The server team will be sprinting the week of Sep25

 16:21 <dpb1> With many other teams at Canonical, hoping to get a jump start on the 18.04 roadmap

 16:22 <dpb1> #info Any suggested things people would like to see in 18.04 on the server side, please do give us feedback on IRC, or at ubuntu-server@lists.ubuntu.com

 16:23 <dpb1> #topic Open Discussion

 16:23 <dpb1> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Merge_Proposals_and_Reviewing

 16:23 <dpb1> Did someone want to discuss that one this week?

 16:23 <dpb1> ^

 16:23 <ahasenack> that was from last week

 16:23 <ahasenack> just not removed

 16:23 <cpaelzer> yep

 16:23 * dpb1 nods

 16:24 <cpaelzer> and we had a few people asking how they could help

 16:24 <cpaelzer> and this is the perfect doc to point them to to start

 16:24 <dpb1> slashd: btw, that is the eventual goal (that link), making merges operate with just merge proposals and git.

 16:24 <dpb1> merges, srus, bug fixes, etc

 16:25 <dpb1> ok

 16:25 <dpb1> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:25 <dpb1> #info Next meeting Tuesday, 2017-08-22 at 1600 UTC, chair will be rbasak

 16:26 <dpb1> teward: are you available for backup next week if rbasak is out?

 16:27 <dpb1> well, we will see when the time comes.

 16:27 <dpb1> ok folks

 16:27 <dpb1> that is it for now

 16:27 <ahasenack> thx dpb1

 16:27 <ahasenack> o/

 16:27 <dpb1> thanks for attending

 16:27 <dpb1> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
