{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Xenial Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Assigned bugwork (rbasak)
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

A new jenkins instance has been made available by IS.  matsubara will be populating it with curtin integration testjobs initally, and migrating iso tests to it over time.

===== Meeting Actions =====

rbasak to look at https://code.launchpad.net/~psivaa/ubuntu-test-cases/lvm-grub-preseed-fix/+merge/258620 and https://code.launchpad.net/~om26er/ubuntu-test-cases/fix_minimal_image_size_test/+merge/235298

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Nov 17 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <hallyn> #startmeeting
[16:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov 10 16:02:55 2015 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:02] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== hallyn changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <hallyn> no actions,
=== hallyn changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Xenial Development
[16:03] <hallyn> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
[16:03] <hallyn> making our way toward the nov 26 feature definition freeze.
[16:04] <hallyn> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:04] <hallyn> i see 5 bugs, 1 critiical...
[16:04] <hallyn> smoser: jamespage: were you wanting to go throughthe bugs?
[16:05] <hallyn> (early in the cycle...)
[16:05] <smoser> lets skip . unless omeon really wants to.
[16:05] <hallyn> k
[16:05] <smoser> well.. .why not.
[16:05] <smoser> let me load
[16:05] <smoser> acutally i think all those things there are "mine"
[16:06] <hallyn> ok, let's move on :)
[16:06] <smoser> or utlemming or cloud images team.s o... lets move on
[16:06] <hallyn> thx
=== hallyn changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Assigned bugwork (rbasak)
[16:06] <hallyn> rbasak: anything you wanted to discuss?
[16:06] <rbasak> o/
[16:06] <rbasak> I'd like to defer this to next week please. I'm still gathering what needs to be done for this cycle.
[16:07] <hallyn> np, moving on
=== hallyn changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:07] <hallyn> no caribou here
[16:07] <hallyn> so on to
=== hallyn changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:07] <hallyn> matsubara: \o
[16:07] <matsubara> Hi there, we finally got a jenkins instance from IS. https://server-team-jenkins.canonical.com/ and I'll be populating it initially with curtin integration test jobs
[16:08] <matsubara> and I'll help migrate our smoketests (iso tests) from some other jenkins instance into that one
[16:08] <matsubara> also, seb128 was looking for ubuntu-devels to review test case changes
[16:08] <matsubara> let me just grab the link
[16:09] <matsubara> https://code.launchpad.net/~psivaa/ubuntu-test-cases/lvm-grub-preseed-fix/+merge/258620 and https://code.launchpad.net/~om26er/ubuntu-test-cases/fix_minimal_image_size_test/+merge/235298
[16:09] <hallyn> should that be an action for everyone to look that over, youthink?
[16:09] <matsubara> I pinged rbasak earlier on to take a look and he asked me to ping again if he forgets
[16:09] <matsubara> so here's a ping and action :-)
[16:09] <hallyn> heh,
[16:10] <hallyn> #action rbasak look at https://code.launchpad.net/~psivaa/ubuntu-test-cases/lvm-grub-preseed-fix/+merge/258620 and https://code.launchpad.net/~om26er/ubuntu-test-cases/fix_minimal_image_size_test/+merge/235298
[16:10] <meetingology> ACTION: rbasak look at https://code.launchpad.net/~psivaa/ubuntu-test-cases/lvm-grub-preseed-fix/+merge/258620 and https://code.launchpad.net/~om26er/ubuntu-test-cases/fix_minimal_image_size_test/+merge/235298
[16:10] <matsubara> that's all I have for today hallyn, thanks!
[16:10] <hallyn> (and presumably delegate :)
[16:10] <rbasak> ack
[16:10] <hallyn> thank you,
=== hallyn changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Upcoming Call For Papers
[16:10] <hallyn> fosdem's devroom cfps shoudl all be open the next few weeks,
[16:10] <hallyn> (including a container one)
[16:11] <hallyn> anything else?
[16:11] <hallyn> ok, moving on,
=== hallyn changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:11] <hallyn> nothing i know of.
[16:12] <hallyn> (will give it another 30 secs)
=== hallyn changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Open Discussion
[16:13] <hallyn> i have a feeling only 4 of us made it for the time change, and we're not feeling chatty...
[16:13] <hallyn> ok,
=== hallyn changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:13] <hallyn> That'll be Tuesday Nov 17, 16:00 UTC, the honorable rbasak presiding
[16:14] <Beret> cool
[16:14] <hallyn> thanks all
[16:14] <hallyn> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:14] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Nov 10 16:14:08 2015 UTC.
[16:14] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-11-10-16.02.moin.txt
</pre>
