{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Whoami ===

See <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mehmetaergun|Mehmet Atıf Ergun]]</nowiki> or my <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/profiles/mehmetaergun|Google profile page]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact ===

'''mehmetaergun''' at '''gmail''' dot '''com'''

=== Education ===

* August 2007 – ?, ''PhD'', Sociology, University of Maryland, College Park, USA
* August 2003 – May 2006, ''Master of Science'', Women's Studies, Towson University, Baltimore, USA
* October 1997 – July 2002, ''Bachelor of Science'', Psychology, Boğaziçi University, İstanbul, Turkey
* September 1989 – June 1997, ''Highschool degree'', Lycée Saint Benoît French High School, İstanbul, Turkey

=== Online Works ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.archive.org/details/TurkishPremaritalSex|Thesis on the effects of background and attitudinal and behavioral variables on attitudes toward women's premarital sexuality in a sample of 277 undergraduate female students at Istanbul University, Turkey]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pazartesi.org/public/makale.aspx?id=193|A brief look at the attitudes toward women's premarital sexuality in Turkey -Turkish-]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.archive.org/details/FemaleOrgasm|A literature review that briefly explores issues of the medicalization of the female orgasm, the phallocentric / androcentric model of sexuality, the g-spot theory, and the views on female orgasm in Turkey]]</nowiki>

=== Published Works ===

* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.csulb.edu/~asc/journal.html|Sexuality & Culture]]</nowiki>'', 2007, “Social Determinants of Attitudes towards Women’s Premarital Sexuality among Female Turkish University Students”, 11, 3, pp. 1--10. 
* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.pazartesi.org|Pazartesi]]</nowiki>'', 2007, “Seks ve Savaş” [Sex and War], translation and foreword to translation, 112, Kadın Kültür ve İletişim Vakfı, İstanbul, forthcoming.
* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.pazartesi.org|Pazartesi]]</nowiki>'', 2006, “Kadın Cinselliği ve Orgazm” [Women's Sexuality and Orgasm], 109, pp. 100 – 103, Kadın Kültür ve İletişim Vakfı, İstanbul.
* ''Evire Cevire'', 2000, “Periler Cemberi” [The Circle of Fairies], 6, pp. 37 – 39, Bogazici University Translation Club, Istanbul (translation from French into Turkish).

=== Presentations ===

* April 2006, ''“Social Determinants of Attitudes toward Women's Premarital Sexuality among Female Turkish University Students”''. Towson University Women's Studies Department Graduate Student Research Panel.

=== Awards ===

* 2005: ''Towson University Graduate Student Association Award''
 
=== Research & Teaching Interests ===

* Sociological aspects of human sexuality
* Social context of women's sexuality
* Sexual deviance
* Ethnic conflicts and women's status
* Neocolonialism

=== Languages and Skills ===

* Languages
** Turkish         – Mother Tongue
** English         – Fluent in writing, reading, and speaking
** French          – Fluent in writing and reading
* Excellent qualitative (interview) and quantitative (survey) data collection, transcription, and data analysis skills
* Excellent computer skills
** Windows 95, 98, XP (excellent)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Linux]]</nowiki> (excellent)
** SPSS (very good)
** MS Office Word (excellent), Excel (excellent), Access (good), Powerpoint (very good)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.openoffice.org|OpenOffice.org]]</nowiki> Writer (very good), Calc (good), Impress (good)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.latex-project.org/|LaTeX]]</nowiki> typesetting software (beginner)
** Adobe Premiere Video Editing Software (excellent), Photostudio Image Editing Software (excellent), <nowiki>[[http://www.gimp.org/|GIMP]]</nowiki> Image Editing Software (very good)
** Internet based applications (excellent)

=== Other ===

* 2007 – Present: University of Maryland Graduate Student Labor Union Sociology Department Coordinator, website co-administrator (http://www.mtrumd.org)
* 2000: Mentored children from poor families in Istanbul, Turkey.
