{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Libatkan Diri ====

Jika anda ingin membantu menyumbang kepada Ubuntu, maka anda telah datang ke tempat yang betul. Teruskan membaca untuk mengetahui caranya.

Anda baru sahaja mengambil langkah pertama untuk terlibat. Sebelum anda bermula, kami meminta anda mematuhi <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/community/governance/code-of-conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. Ia tidak terlalu lama dan ia akan membantu anda bermula.

Setelah itu selesai, lihat <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Community Hub]]</nowiki>.

==== Pasukan ====

Halaman <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/community/governance/teams|Teams]]</nowiki> mengandungi senarai pelbagai Pasukan Komuniti, tanggungjawab mereka, pautan ke Halaman Utama '''Wiki''' mereka dan pemimpin, alat komunikasi dan rujukan pantas untuk memberitahu anda sama ada dan bila mereka mengadakan mesyuarat.

Kebanyakan Halaman Utama Wiki Pasukan memberikan maklumat tentang siapa mereka, apa yang mereka lakukan, bila mesyuarat mereka dan cara menghubungi mereka. Menggunakan halaman ini, rakan sepasukan dapat berkomunikasi dan menyelaraskan projek.

==== LoCoTeams ====

For participating on the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams|Country]]</nowiki> area team contributing to a Local Development of Localization and Internationalization and promoting use of <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

==== Governance and Membership ====

Like most communities, we have our <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/community/governance/code-of-conduct|rules]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/community/governance|governing body]]</nowiki>.

Anyone can join and participate in most, if not all, of our Teams and Projects. But if you want an “@ubuntu.com” e-mail address, it has to be earned. Find out how in our <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/community/membership|Membership]]</nowiki> documentation.

==== Community Links ====

As an active member of our community, you probably should check out what else is going on in the world of Ubuntu:

* <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/|The Fridge]]</nowiki> posts all the latest News and Upcoming Events.

* <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com/|Planet Ubuntu]]</nowiki> is a collection of community blogs.

If you are interested in getting to know other Ubuntu users or seeing a list of Ubuntu teams outside the general Ubuntu world, check out our <nowiki>[[Social|social network page]]</nowiki>.

==== Releases ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Released (Current & Stable)'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Release Schedule'''
| '''Support Date'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[ManticMinotaur-ReleaseNotes|Mantic Minotaur]]</nowiki>
| 23.10
| October 12, 2023
| Supported until July 2024
|-
| <nowiki>[[LunarLobster-ReleaseNotes|Lunar Lobster]]</nowiki>
| 23.04
| April 20, 2023
| Supported until January 2024
|-
| <nowiki>[[JammyJellyfish-ReleaseNotes|Jammy Jellyfish]]</nowiki>
| 22.04 LTS
| April 21, 2022
| Supported until June 2027
|-
| <nowiki>[[FocalFossa-ReleaseNotes|Focal Fossa]]</nowiki>
| 20.04 LTS
| April 23, 2020
| Supported until June 2025
|}

====  ====

For more Release information, go to the <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki> page.
Get the latest Ubuntu Release from the <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/download|Download Page]]</nowiki>, or go to the <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com|Image Page]]</nowiki> for specific '''architectures''' and '''daily-live''' development images.

~- Languages - <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/community/governance/code-of-conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> -~
~- Languages - <nowiki>[[Spanish]]</nowiki> -~
~- Languages - <nowiki>[[Melayu]]</nowiki> -~
