{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== General Guidelines ===

When applying for Ubuntu Membership you should produce a wiki page for your application and cite examples of the work you have performed. This page outlines some good examples of work that can act in favour of your application.

=== Examples Of Great Work ===

==== LoCo Teams ====

* Organizing different LoCo team events. Some examples include:
** Ubuntu Global Jams
** Ubuntu Hours
** Ubuntu Release Parties
* Organizing and representing Ubuntu at computer fairs, events, and conferences.
* Creating LoCo materials, flyers, educational content etc.

==== Packaging ====

==== Programming ====

* Contributing code and bug fixes to projects that bring value to Ubuntu.
* Fixing Ubuntu bugs upstream.

==== Documentation ====

* Writing new documentation.
* Editing existing documentation.

==== Testing and Triage ====

* Triaging bugs.
* Working to find causes and reasons for different bugs.
* Working to assist developers in fixing bugs.
* Testing fixes, providing feedback and guidance on how well fixes work.
* Participating in bug days and sprints.

==== Translations ====

* Translating documentation into different languages.
* Translating strings in Ubuntu.

==== Infrastructure and Coordination ====

* Working on project infrastructure projects, supporting and coordinating with the Ubuntu developers
* Active work keeping mailing lists, forums, IRC channels and other discussion fora manageable.
* Planning and coordination of meetings and activities.

==== Advocacy ====
* Work with the press and general media to get Ubuntu more widely known.
* Work with hardware manufacturers to get Ubuntu preinstalled.
* Planning of activities to make people aware of Ubuntu.
 
==== Upstream ====
The work done in other Open Source communities is vitally important to Ubuntu. If you are part of one of Ubuntu's Upstreams we appreciate your work.

If your collaboration with the Ubuntu project and involvement in the Ubuntu project constitutes as a significant and sustained contribution, you are eligible to Ubuntu membership.

Examples for this kind of collaboration might be: joint release planning, cross-collaboration in terms of QA and exchanging fixes, etc.

When applying for Ubuntu membership, please make the relevance of your work to the Ubuntu project very clear.

Examples:
* Working on an upstream project that and has dealt with a lot of Ubuntu bugs and coordinated releases together with Ubuntu developers
 
