{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== What? ===

Use this to write the post meeting email.

If the member applicant used the new method of posting a discourse thread, then include that as indicated, potentially omitting their wiki page. Or vice versa the old method of using the wiki. If they have both a discourse thread and wiki then it's fine to include both.

Within the script below there are entries for "their pronouns" (the pronouns the new member uses) and "your pronouns" (the pronouns that you, the person writing and sending this email, use). Please fill these as appropriate. For example, "she/her", "he/him", "they/them", etc. Be aware that some people use pronouns other than these three examples, so make sure you check with the new member which they use and do '''''not''''' assume.

=== Intro ===

TO: ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com, Ubuntu-membership-boards@lists.ubuntu.com, community-council@lists.ubuntu.com
CC: < the email addresses of the approved members >
SUBJECT: Results for the <TIMEZONE> Regional Membership Board Meeting, <DATE>

Hello everyone,

At the <DATE> <TIMEZONE> Membership meeting we welcomed <NUMBER> new
Members to official Ubuntu Membership!

<NAME OF NEW MEMBER 1> (their pronouns) https://discourse.ubuntu.com/TheirDiscoursePost | 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TheirWikiName | https://launchpad.net/~theirLPid

A short paragraph about their involvement in Ubuntu, e.g.:
Aaron has been active working on translation into Spanish, as well as
support in the Spanish-language IRC channels. He advocates for Ubuntu and
open source in his school and wider community of his city. He also is in
the process of becoming more involved with the Florida LoCo team.

<NAME OF NEW MEMBER 2> (their pronouns) https://discourse.ubuntu.com/TheirDiscoursePost | https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TheirWikiName | https://launchpad.net/~theirLPid

A short paragraph about their involvement in Ubuntu, e.g.:
Aaron has been active working on translation into Spanish, as well as
support in the Spanish-language IRC channels. He advocates for Ubuntu and
open source in his school and wider community of his city. He also is in
the process of becoming more involved with the Florida LoCo team.

<repeat as needed>

Congratulations to all the new members!

<Your Name> (your pronouns), on behalf of the <TIMEZONE> Membership Board
