{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The Regional Membership Boards are responsible for approving new Ubuntu members, in the following geographical areas:

* <nowiki>[[Membership-RegionalBoards-Americas|Americas]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Membership-RegionalBoards-EMEA|Europe, Middle East and Africa]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Membership-RegionalBoards-AsiaOceania|Asia and Oceania]]</nowiki>

Click on the above links to add yourself to the agenda for consideration by one of the regional boards.

Meetings are weekly, and take place in the early evening for each timezone, although the day will vary a little each week, to ensure that as many membership candidates as possible can attend.

Each Board should have an appointed secretary, who can vary as often as the board wishes, to carry out the following tasks:

# Coordinate meeting times and ensure that these are published on the Fridge calendar.
# Add successful membership candidates to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers|Launchpad group]]</nowiki>.
# Report successful membership candidates to the UbuntuWeeklyNews and add a short summary for each member (which should be taken from the candidate's personal wikipage).
# Between May and July 2008, board secretaries are also responsible for reporting approved candidates to the CommunityCouncil, to evaluate the approval system.

If there is a contentious or disputed membership application, it can be referred to the CommunityCouncil.

The term length of members of the Membership Boards is 2 years.
