{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


On this page you can apply to be considered for Ubuntu membership by the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-membership-board-emea|Europe, Middle East and African regional approval board]]</nowiki>. Edit this page to apply. If the meetings do not match your schedule, you can apply for consideration with one of the other <nowiki>[[Membership-RegionalBoards|regional approval boards]]</nowiki>.

Before applying for membership, please read and carefully follow the <nowiki>[[Membership|membership guidelines]]</nowiki>. Your personal wiki page should be prepared '''before''' you add your application to the agenda, so that it can be read beforehand. Come well prepared, otherwise the meetings will take too much time.

The EMEA membership board meets every first Tuesday of the month at 20:00 UTC.

The next meeting is scheduled for <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=5&day=4&year=2010&hour=20&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|May 4th 2010, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki> and will be held in #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net.

'''NOTE:''' you have to particpate in the IRC meeting if you want to become a member

==== Member candidates for next meeting ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Name'''
| '''IRC nick'''
| '''Wiki Page'''
| '''Launchpad Profile'''
| '''Date added'''
|-
| Ronnie Tucker
| ronnietucker
| <nowiki>[[RonnieTucker]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ronnietucker|Ronnie Tucker]]</nowiki>
| March 24, 2010
|-
| Fortunato Ventre
| voRia
| <nowiki>[[FortunatoVentre]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~voria|Fortunato Ventre]]</nowiki>
| April 11, 2010
|-
| Iñigo Varela
| ivarela
| <nowiki>[[ivarela]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ivarela|Iñigo Varela]]</nowiki>
| April 17, 2010
|-
| Guillaume Mazoyer
| Respawner
| <nowiki>[[GuillaumeMazoyer]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~respawneral|Guillaume Mazoyer]]</nowiki>
| May 4, 2010
|}
