{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>

=== Team Reports ===

This section is intend to be read for the current members of the Ubuntu Membership Boards, if you're interested in becoming Ubuntu Member feel free to skip it. 

To see the outcome of previous meetings please head over to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/Boards/TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki> page.

Each Board should have an appointed secretary, who can vary as often as the board wishes, to carry out the following tasks:

# Coordinate meeting times and ensure that these are published on the Fridge calendar.
# Add successful membership candidates to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers|Launchpad group]]</nowiki>.
# Report successful membership candidates to the UbuntuWeeklyNews and add a short summary for each member (which should be taken from the candidate's personal wikipage).

If there is a contentious or disputed membership application, it can be referred to the CommunityCouncil.

The term length of members of the Membership Boards is 2 years.

=== Best practices ===

We want to collect best practices of the RMBs here:

* If you can't sufficiently judge contributions from applicants, follow up with other Membership Boards and finish the application process over email.
