{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The approval results from the 08th November Asia Oceania Membership meeting are as follows:
* Aron Xu (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~happyaron|happyaron]]</nowiki>) was informed they were able to renew their own membership and therefore wasn't required to participate in the meeting.
* Ashickur Rahman (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ashickur-noor|ashickur-noor]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ashickur-noor|ashickur-noor]]</nowiki>) had applied in the previous month and had contributed in the mean time. He has again been asked to come back in a while and given some timeframes this time. Further discussions were had in to how he could possible join in on some other projects like UBT, translation and LoCos to assist with this development. Support was offered to achieve these goals in the near future.
* Min Sik CHO (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MinSik%20CHO|MinSik CHO]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~mscho527|mscho527]]</nowiki>) was advised what the requirements of membership were. While being a relatively newcomer to Ubuntu has shown a lot of promise. Min has been given some advice and assistance in how to continue his contributions into the future. 
* Ko Ko Ye' (<nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-kokoye2007 | kokoye2007 ]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~kokoye2007 | kokoye2007]]</nowiki>) was not present for the meeting.
* Bone Pyae Sone (<nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-bonepyaesone | bonepyaesone ]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bonepyaesone | bonepyaesone]]</nowiki>) was also not present for the meeting.
