{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Regional Membership Board!

==== Expectations ====

We have the following requirements for board members:

* be an Ubuntu member
* be confident that you can judge contributions to various parts of our community
* be available during typical meeting times of the board in question
* insight into the culture(s) and typical activities within a geographic region covered by the board is a plus

Those sitting on membership boards are people who are insightful. They are current Ubuntu Members with a proven track record of activity in the community. They have shown themselves over time to be able to work well with others and display the positive aspects of the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. They should be people who can discern character and judge contribution quality without emotion while engaging in an interview/discussion that communicates interest, a welcoming atmosphere, and which is marked by humanity, gentleness, and kindness. Even when they must deny applications, they should do so in such a way that applicants walk away with a sense of hopefulness and a desire to return with a more complete application rather than feeling discouraged or hurt.

==== Board Duties and Meeting Flow ====

At the meeting you will first determine whether you have enough people to move forward (quorum). For membership boards this is typically 4 individuals.

Each nominee will come before the board and introduce themselves, Americas board uses this script at the beginning of the meeting:

http://people.ubuntu.com/~lyz/americas_intro.txt

Based on criteria on the <nowiki>[[Membership]]</nowiki> wiki you will then discuss whether you believe the person is eligible for membership. This can be difficult at times but you are free to discuss things with your fellow board members if you're unsure.

After each meeting someone will add members to the ~ubuntumembers team and then we write up a summary email for each newly approved member which is emailed to the ubuntu-membership-boards, community-council, the ubuntu-news-team list, and Cc:ed to each approved member - you can usually find their email address in launchpad or on their wiki (Mark Shuttleworth likes us to do this so he can easily reply to the email and congratulate the new members directly).

Here are some examples of post-meeting write-ups:

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-news-team/2010-April/000996.html

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-news-team/2010-February/000872.html

Boards are also expected to maintain TeamReports.

If you have any questions about anything - please ask. Discussion is always welcome on the ubuntu-membership-boards list.
