{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


On this page you may apply to be considered for Ubuntu Membership by the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-membership-board-americas|North and South American regional approval board]]</nowiki>. If the meeting time(s) do not coincide with your schedule, you may apply for Ubuntu Membership with one of the other <nowiki>[[Membership-RegionalBoards|regional approval boards]]</nowiki>.

Before applying for membership, please read and carefully follow the <nowiki>[[Membership|membership guidelines]]</nowiki>. '''NOTE: Your personal wiki page should be prepared before you add your application to the agenda, that way it can be read beforehand.''' Also, make sure to be well prepared, otherwise the meetings will take too much time.

The next meeting is TBD.

'''A note about the scheduled meetings:''' Currently the setting of meeting dates and times ahead of schedule has proven difficult, so these are scheduled on the fly. The best way(s) to learn about a particular meeting's date and time are the following:
# Subscribe to this page and watch for changes that include a meeting time, 
# Subscribe to the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|fridge calendar]]</nowiki>, or
# Look for an announcement in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter|newsletter]]</nowiki> (the Sunday prior to the next scheduled meeting will have an announcement).

==== Member candidates for next meeting ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Name'''
| '''IRC nick'''
| '''Wiki Page'''
| '''Launchpad Profile'''
| '''Date added'''
|-
| Jesse N. Richardson
| Flare183
| <nowiki>[[Richardson183]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:richardson183]]</nowiki>
| Dec 14, 2009
|-
| Tim Burzynski
| RedSingularity
| RedSingularity
| LaunchpadHome:RedSingularity
| March 18, 2010
|-
| Manoj Iyer
| manjo
| <nowiki>[[ManojIyer]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:manjo]]</nowiki>
| March 30, 2010
|}

==== Guidelines for Ubuntu Membership Request. ====
'''Please read <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki> before applying for membership consideration.'''
* New candidates may be added to the bottom of the above table. 
* Only add yourself when you're sure you can make it to the next meeting. 
* The date at the end of the above table is the date you have added yourself to the membership candidate list, not the date of a meeting. 
* Don't add people to this list 48 hours before meeting.

''Candidates will NOT be considered if they have not <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SigningCodeofConduct|Digitally Signed]]</nowiki> the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.''
