{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Draft: How mentorship could be handled in Ubuntu ==

=== Vocabulary ===

 Committer:: someone who is allowed to upload packages (equivalent: Debian Developer)

 Applicant/Package Maintainer/Uploader/Contributor::
  someone who wishes to become a Committer
  (or perhaps just someone who is happy to have a sponsor for uploading
  packages)

 Mentor::
  someone who has a solid knowledge of how Debian/Ubuntu works
  and guides applicants in maintaining their packages

  Tasks:

** improve packaging skills of their applicants
** procure the Code of Conduct
** make sure the applicant is motivated and does not do it for becoming famous
** decide when the applicant is ready to become a committer himself/herself and shall be promoted
** proposes applicants to the technical board

 Sponsoring::
  an upload of a mentor on behalf of an applicant

=== Goals ===

Mentors decide which kind of packages they sponsor (depending on their skills)

   Not every mentor is skilled in all programming languages or types of package.
   Some know a lot about libraries, other do kernel patches/modules, some
   are experienced C++ programmers etc. So don't just assign packages to
   mentors but let the mentors choose.

Let applicants upload themselves

  Applicants should be allowed to upload their packages themselves.
  (In Debian applicants need to get their packages to the sponsors
  'somehow' - that's why mentors.debian.net was founded because there
  is no easy way to get packages to the sponsors.)
  These packages would be stored in a special pool so they don't enter
  the distribution.

Help advertising new (first-time uploaded) packages

  If a package was uploaded for the very first time it should get
  displayed on a web page like 'these packages need a sponsor'.
  This could look like the main page at http://mentors.debian.net.
  New uploads should also be automatically announced on a mailing list like
  ubuntu-mentors-newuploads@l.u.c, too.

  Sponsors could then decide to 'confirm' the upload if everything looks
  right or 'reject' it with a few helpful notes mailed to the applicant.
  These could just be buttons/links in a web interface that are available
  for registered sponsors/committers.

Track packages that did not get attention after some time (a week?)

  If packages stay in the pool for too long someone from Canonical could
  perhaps take a look what's wrong.

Packages should be checked automatically

  New uploads should be checked by linda and lintian automatically.
  If any of the tools give warnings then the package should stay in the
  pool but an email should be mailed back to the uploader so they can
  perhaps fix that. If a tool reports an error the package should be
  rejected and the uploader be informed about the reason.

Try to fix sponsor/applicant relationships

  Once a sponsor has agreed to sponsor a certain package this relationship
  should be fixed. That means that subsequent uploads of the package
  would address the same sponsor again. This could be done by having
  the uploader add a field to debian/control like
  "Sponsor: Bill Gates <bill@majestic12.gov>". Uploads would then not
  be displayed on the 'these packages need a sponsor' page nor announced
  on the mailing list but the sponsor is mailed directly.

Newer packages in the queue override old package versions

  If an applicant decides he/she wants to do changes to a package
  (perhaps after they received a lintian warning they would like to fix)
  after it has been uploaded he/she could just upload the newer version.
  Older versions would get removed automatically.

=== To be decided ===

==== Allow uploads for people who don't intend to become committers? ====

 a. No, everybody who is serious about providing packages for Ubuntu should consider becoming a committer.
 a. Yes, allow a permament sponsorship through a mentor/sponsor.

==== Should subsequent uploads/updates be accepted automatically even from applicants? ====

 a. No, every upload needs to be confirmed by the sponsor.
 a. Yes, only first-time uploads are reviewed.

=== To Do ===

 1. Create a new package pool for sponsored uploads (no limitations to certain people).
   Features:
*** new versions of the same package remove old packages
*** new uploads get announced to the mailing list
*** subsequent uploads get announced to the sponsor only
*** automatic linda/lintian checks
# Create a mailing list ubuntu-mentors@ for general questions. Sponsors, applicants and other interested people should subscribe here.
# Create a mailing list ubuntu-mentors-newuploads@ for automatically announcing new uploads. Sponsors should be subscribed here.
# Create a web interface for displaying new packages currently in the upload queue. Options (for committers): confirm or reject (with reason = textfield).

CategoryArchive
