{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Tony Merc Mobily ==

NOTE: I am in Australia. The meeting is at 5:00AM for me, and I work double full time. So, if you see that I am not at the meeting, I don't suppose you could call me on ++61 423 623 901? Yes, I have an alarm clock, but it might be a tough one. I will reject the call, so it won't cost you anything. This is a simple favour I am asking very humbly. Could I also ask you guys to be considered first, so that I can then go back to bed?

I run Free Software Magazine, which covers free software in general including Ubuntu. I am also the author of Drigg, which is what I consider the best way to create a Digg-like web site. I spend most of my working time on these two projects.

I have made sure Ubuntu is well covered in Free Software Magazine. We have countless articles on Ubuntu Linux -- some of which are extremely popular.

I am also coordinating the "Ubuntu applications book".

I cannot say whether my contribution to Ubuntu was substantial. However, I love Ubuntu, and I always made sure that FSM talked about it.

So, to sum up:

Launchpad profile: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~merc|Launchpad for merc]]</nowiki>

Complete description of my contributions: <nowiki>[[http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/search/node/ubuntu|Articles that talk about Ubuntu in Free Software Magazine]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/books/ubuntu_applications|The Ubuntu Applications book]]</nowiki>

Plans: More articles about Ubuntu, and completing the Ubuntu book (which I am sponsoring)
