{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Your comments on the <nowiki>[[MessagingMenu]]</nowiki> design specification are welcome here. Please sign your name with each comment. Thanks!

----

I'm wondering about the apparent lack of interest in supporting Mozilla Thunderbird. This is a very widely used mail package and like Firefox has the advantage of providing converts to Ubuntu with familiar software that they may have used under Windows. But the list of candidates for future support seems to include much more obscure software while leaving Thunderbird out. Is there some rationale for this that I'm missing? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:Ian W Scott]]</nowiki>

----

Currently testing in Karmic:
* It is not clear from the mockups, whether Evolution New mail within Folders will be listed individually or grouped together in each account.Currently the behavior is inconsistent , I have a single account with several folders set for different filters , messaging menu indicates the number of mails either in the inbox or folder.
* It would be ideal if, Folders with new mail are listed separately and selecting the folder from the menu , displays evolution and the selects the folder.
* Also,Kindly provide support to minimize Evolution to the messaging menu, in Karmic cycle itself . It is redundant to keep an email client window always open. --mac_v

----

Other applications/clients and uses

* I think Ekiga should list lost calls in this menu. How and when they should be removed, though, I don't know. https://launchpad.net/~joerlend.schinstad

----

Some vague feedback from playing with the initial implementation of this
as indicator-messages in Jaunty. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:james-w]]</nowiki>

** I find the "new items" icon with a green dot to be just a little too subtle. While flashing would be over the top having a bit more difference between the boring and new messages case would help to catch the eye.
** Currently the green dot remains as long as there are indicators. I think that there should be a state of having unseen indicators, which should be the more differentiated icon above. It should leave this state when you open the menu. This would mean that if I want to ignore a message then there is a state change when there is a subsequent message. There should be a state corresponding to the existing state of having indicators, and the current green dot would be about as attention grabbing as warranted.
** There should perhaps be different priority queues of indicators. I have disabled indicators in evolution, as now that I have empathy and gwibber using it the mails get in the way. If I see the green dot then it will often be a mail, which I will deal with when I have time. Having evolution accessible there, along with the suggested message counts would be great, but I wouldn't like them to lead to me breaking my attention. This could tie in to the previous points, with evolution being a lower priority that didn't trigger the more attention grabbing state. The priority would be part of the indicator, so the app could define it, so if you received a mail your mail client had a filter to tag as "urgent" it could add a high priority indicator.
** The indicator appearing and the notification can happen at different times due to notification queuing in notify-osd. More closely integrating them would make it possible for the indicator to only add when the notification was shown. As the indicator should always be before the notification this isn't so bad (notification before indicator would give you something to respond to without an easy way to respond), but it's not ideal. If I receive them at the same time then I can make the decision to open the message menu now or later based on the notification, rather than having to open it. (Assuming all apps use libnotify properly you shouldn't see a delayed notification if you click the indicator, but there is no mechanism currently to kill the notification just for opening the menu).
** Related to the above it would be nice if there was a visual tie-in between the notification and the message indicator. The early notify-osd mockups have this, but it is not currently implemented. The messaging menu could expose its position over dbus to possibly allow this.
** Again relatedly empathy currently iconifies to its status icon in the notification area, but when using indicators it doesn't have one, so compiz draws it as iconifying to the task list, but that entry is disappearing at the same time, so it looks silly. If the position of the message menu was exposed then it could perhaps arrange to iconify to that, which is conceptually where it is hiding. However, the design of indicators means that there may be more than one listener, so any way of doing this would have to account for that possibility in some manner.
** There should be recommendations for how applications should behave when there server entry is clicked. If they are hidden they should appear, but should it be in the previous position, or on the current workspace? Should they be first in the z-order? focused? If they are currently showing when should they hide and when should they present? The message menu being implemented in terms of a menu has some additional complications from e.g. the way empathy currently does it with the stutus icon. I have my own opinions about what the behaviour should be, but whatever the decided behaviour is it would be great if it came with example code under a liberal license and for gtk and qt, so that each app can use it without having to spend time understanding the intricacies of toolkit and window manager behavior.
----
Comments following installation of the Jaunty release-candidate -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:raz-ziv]]</nowiki>
** Regarding the pidgin notification icon overriding: personally, I'll be very sad to switch to two-click (and down a menu, at that) process to get to my buddies list. Currently, with the pidgin notification icon, I just click it and the buddies window appears; I click it again and it disappears. Hiding this access point to pidgin inside the notification applet menu seems to me like a big usability downgrade.
** If I'm currently in the middle of some activity, like writing a document, I'd like to have the information needed to decide whether to interrupt my activity and check the notification or not. I might like to do so upon instant message reception, but not for an email. Therefore I think the "new item" notification should be indicative of the nature of the item, e.g. a pidgin icon fading in and out on top of the notification applet icon upon message reception; An email may be indicated by a similarly (maybe more slowly) flashing envelope. 
----
Comments on the pidgin notification overriding -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:eemil-lagerspetz]]</nowiki>
** I agree with raz-ziv on the pidgin notification icon. A good solution, in my opinion, would be to show the new event when the indicator icon is clicked. This could be done when there are new events from only one program, or it could be done for each program that has new events in order. Furthermore, when there are no new events, and there is just one option behind the icon (for me, Pidgin), that option should be auto-selected. Then, if I am only running pidgin, a click on the indicator applet with no new events would toggle pidgin buddy list hidden/shown, and a click with new events would show the new events, first from pidgin, in order of received time, then from other applications, if any. IM messages are more "urgent" so they should be priorized over email in showing them when the icon is clicked.
----
the idea of a common LOCATION for all messaging is nice, BUT the ICON needs to be a DYNAMIC changing one ,
* i.e.> when a buddy message is received the icon should change to the pidgin message icon , when new mail arrives then the icon should be of the evolution new mail , if there are several unread messages + buddy messages the icon needs to change in order of the first arrived message[or]mail and as each mail/message is read icon changes to the next event based on the time,
* clicking on the icon should directly reach the message/mail window , once the event is read then the icon remains as the icon of last application chosen, so if the user wants to change to a different application, then he just chooses the application from the dropdown menu, where the current app is listed the last, the current app is always listed as the last app in the drop down menu... basically the indicator just needs to maintain the native app icon behaviours but consolidate them all in one location.
* also ,the present envelope for pidgin makes no sense!, it would have been better to use the indicator applet's default "i" icon, even for the evolution mail. ---mac_v

----

Since the goal is to interupt me less I personally would like these improvements:
* If a new user logs on to IM (pidgin) then I don't want the i-a to show the same thing as when new mail appears.  I don't even care about that at all, only care about IM inidicators when someone is trying to talk to me.  All other cases are distracting and are better done using buddy pounces etc.
* * It's only displayed for 60 seconds though. I think it's nice to see who came and who went away; specially in the office. https://launchpad.net/~joerlend.schinstad
* If a new email arrives in evolution I want to be able to decide if it's worth interrupting my work for.  Just seeing a count of new messages (both in i-a and the notification bubble) is not helpful.  Being able to see the sender and subject would help me decide if I want to interrupt what I'm doing (if multiple mailboxes are monitored it would also be useful to say which one the mail is in).

 FlorisBruynooghe

----

* I would like to agree with the above regarding suppression of some or all items, could be an easy modification to ad a menu tick box to say "suppress all" and then maybe another menu items below that say "Suppress...." with that leading to a small simple dialog box to tick and un-tick programs to have messages from

 Acreda 

----

* For Pidgin users the MessagingMenu page tells me to disable the System Tray Icon. Therefore Pidgin will always be shown in the taskbar. There should be an option to minimize the pidgin Contact List (Buddy List) to the MessagingMenu, so it will disappear from the taskbar.

 Youp.net

----

* Should Liferea be included in the menu? It is not exactly a messaging application but its current icon in the notification area seems to serve similar purposes. In place of the icon with the number of new/updated/unread feeds it can be shown as "Liferea (42)" instead. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kwokshungit]]</nowiki>

----

Putting the IM statuses in its own separate sub-menu seems a bit of a usability regression, especially for those who have gotten used to them being just there.  It may make the menu longer, but it also makes them easier to access -- one long hold of the mouse button and a swift movement down.

----

For many people, e-mail and IM are two completely different things with no reason to be integrated. I often leave mails unread for days, yet still want to see if there are any new IM messages. Want to see w/o clicking! -- Filip Štědronský
