{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
One download to install them all, 
one download to get them, ..
on the server of Canonical,
where the iso's lie.
</pre>

At the moment I am burning data on a DVD RW Double-Layer..
At the same time I am downloading the Kubuntu 6.10 DVD..

Then I got a idea. Perhaps it could be possible. Because there are many flavours of Ubuntu around right now!

== Use Cases ==

'''John''' uses Ubuntu already, is happy with it, and already convinced many of his friends to use it too. Because he wants to help them, he also installing Ubuntu for them on their PC and helping them if there are some problems while installation or shortly describing them how to use.

He always have massive amount of CDs in his bag - to be honest, he had to buy a CD bag only for Ubuntu - because he has to carry all architectures with him, and that for the LTS (6.06) and the current (6.10), and this then also as a Desktop CD as also a Alternate CD, if something fails, or the memory is to low.

After a half year, he has at least to burn another "set" of CD for the new release..

John thinks if it wouldnt be great to have one (Double-Layer) DVD to install Kubuntu, Ubuntu, perhaps also Xubuntu in Live CD mode but also with the Alternate Installer.

John thinks "it should be possible, because many packages are used on both (or all) flavours of ubuntu".

'''Ian''' has another approach - he comes from Gentoo, because he couldnt stand the long compilation times and the "ease" of messing up the system. He likes Ubuntu really, but there are a few great things he want to see in Ubuntu, too.

One thing he remembered when he talk with John - on Gentoo there was a sort of a "remastering tool" - the possibility to create a Live CD on their own - you got a GTK application where you could define what things should be on the CD if it has enough space to put it on. 

Because he mostly uses DVD to burn - but didnt install for friends, he only download the i386 alternate - he want to put all of his favourite stuff already on CD, so if he installs a new PC for himself he has it all on there.

'''Libby''' only wants to try all of the ubuntu flavours, and install the one she like.

== What I wanted to say.. ==

The thing I write on Ian may be too complex, or too hard to maintain and support, but the thing I write for John should be possible and would be a surely very popular download, because there are many people who have to install Ubuntu not only for them.

''I will finish this idea soon, and perhaps show it to some people or post it on launchpad..''

PS: When arguing about the traffic this produces, then I want to say, such a download is __perfect__ for BitTorrent!
