{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Hilaire F. Nollette III ==

=== metaeoc ^ fccf ===
* Name: Hilaire F. Nollette III
* Location: Fullerton, Ca. USA
* Email: metatecque AT gmail DOT com
* <nowiki>[[http://voice.google.com/|Google Voice]]</nowiki>: 213-915-4213
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~metaeoc
* IRC: fccf on freenode.net
* Twitter: <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/lovetechnique|lovetechnique]]</nowiki>
* PGP Key ID: <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x6CDBF2911D70BFBAF3FF69C1B86F2AAAF4DCC7D3&op=index|F4DCC7D3]]</nowiki>

=== About ===
I am a software technical support engineer with over 20 years expierence, I started @ Transaction Equipment and Supply company in 1987, worked as a tech-support person for ESPN, Disney, and HBO. I developed the current site for <nowiki>[[http://www.wqrz.org/| WQRZ 103.5FM Bay St Louis Ms]]</nowiki> and am actively develping a number of my own projects.

=== Ubuntu Support ===
Proudly supporting the Ubuntu community via IRC in #ubuntu.

I find myself often times helping people find help on freenode, often they come to #ubuntu expecting subject matter experts on things like #vbox, #postfix, #xorg, #gcc or even ##windows, and while yes many in #ubuntu could answer those questions, keeping #ubuntu specific to Ubuntu support is important. I point them in the right direction. I am very comfortable with the use of __ubottu__, often giving !guidelines, !patience, !msgthebot, or !enter to make it easier on everybody in channel. 

I am very familiar with many different aspects of Ubuntu, and the available packages for it, so I can often recite from memory solutions for everyday questions, some have even called me a bot at times; and I assure you I am not. 

I have personally installed Ubuntu on hundreds of computers and have several servers at my command at any given moment, I've dealt with hardware issues, software issues, and even the occasional noobie issue.
=== Campcaster ===
Proudly supporting <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/campcaster|CampCaster]]</nowiki> users via IRC in #campcaster.

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/campcaster|CampCaster]]</nowiki> is an open-source Radio Broadcast Scheduling and Playout System developed by the <nowiki>[[http://www.campware.org/|Center for Advanced Media (Prague)]]</nowiki> with funding from the <nowiki>[[http://www.mdlf.org/|Media Development Loan Fund]]</nowiki>. I have been working to continue the development of <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/campcaster|CampCaster]]</nowiki>. The most recent build is 3363 and has not been incorporated downstream to Ubuntu, as it is still in development, and will not be packaged for Ubuntu until sometime in 2010, it is however available in its development version via subversion, and runs well in both Hardy and Jaunty. 
----
I am also preparing a new version of the english documentation for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/campcaster|CampCaster]]</nowiki> as well as a <nowiki>[[ http:--tr.im-broadcastubuntu|white-paper describing the Ubuntu-CampCaster-Flumotion-Cortado Workflow]]</nowiki>, as it is a very new concept to most in the community.

=== Associations ===
Member of the Ubuntu CaliforniaTeam LoCo - Which is now an Americas Regional Council Approved Team

Member <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Thespian_Society/|Interntional Thespian Society]]</nowiki>

=== Current Project ===
Sysadmin and Designer of Fullerton First Christian Church's <nowiki>[[http://www.fullertonfirstchristian.org:81/|Streaming Server]]</nowiki>.

=== Goals ===
Get a Job: Should be easy with my __skillset__ 

Really though, I'd like to be contracted to start an internet television broadcast station, for a Socially Responsible company...

With my skillset: No Worries, It will happen

=== TagLine ===
Known far and wide as a very cynical tech support person who has very good taste in food, music, and fun.

Sovereign to all who know me well, get to know me and you will know why too. ;)
 
Very interested in becoming an UbuntuMember, and imminently qualified, using ubuntu for 4.75 years and loving it, and really enjoying supporting it. I welcome the input of any Ubuntu member, user, or computer enthusiast. I love making ubuntu better, and watching the community grow.
