{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Guidelines for the #ubuntu-meta IRC channel ==

'''Only pose questions in #ubuntu-meta that ''other'' people have posed in ''other'' channels. Never ask your ''own'' questions, because #ubuntu-meta is not a direct support channel. There is #ubuntu for that. This rule will be enforced strictly.'''

If a question is asked in a support channel, and you are not able to answer it, but you believe somebody who is in #ubuntu-meta can, you can give them a line there.

Feel also free to relay other users' questions without addressing them to anyone specifically; just make sure that you have all the vital information about the question, so that you can write it down concisely, and in a manner that is effective for helpers to parse.

You should '''NOT''' ask support questions in #ubuntu-meta.

You should '''NOT''' message someone (publicly or privately) just because you see them poked by someone else in #ubuntu-meta about a certain question.

This channel is not for general chatter, please use #ubuntu-offtopic for that and ''keep this channel as scroll-free as possible''! Don't bring in people with support questions!

=== The MetaBot ===

Meta``Bot watches the main support channels for unanswered messages (messages that do not get an answer, addressed to the original nickname, within four minutes), trying to discern questions from other stuff. Unanswered questions are shown in #ubuntu-meta.

Additionally, Meta``Bot tries to assign a category to each question. This, and the question/non-question decision, is controlled by a Bayesian filter.

You can train Meta``Bot by assigning questions to the most appropriate category (or by marking them as "null", i.e. non-questions). Type « help » in a private message with Meta``Bot to know the syntax for doing this. Please try to assign questions to existing categories (type « categories »); if a question does not fit, you can discuss with the channel operators whether creating a new category is appropriate.

If the in-channel messages from Meta``Bot annoy you, you can safely put it on /ignore (possibly channel-only ignore, so that you can still query it privately; check your IRC client).

Please do '''NOT''' try to use Meta``Bot commands in the channel. It won't accept them, anyway.

The MetaBot sourcecode is available as part of the <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ljl/ubuntu-bots/metabot|Ubuntu IRC Bots]]</nowiki> projects.
