{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===
I'm Rafael Campos Las Heras, a guy from Valencia, Spain, but i'm living in Madrid since 2006. I'm 29 (almost 30) years old. I started with Linux in 1997.

* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~methril
* Email and JID: methril at gmail dot com
* IRC: my nicknames at irc.freenode.org are methril, methril|work and all methril|* variants. You could see me in  #at91 #beagle #denx #edev ##electronics #elinux ##hardware #htc-linux #oe #openezx #openhardware #openmoko #openmoko-cdevel #openmoko-offtopic #openpattern #poky #u-boot #robotics at Freenode. I'm going to join #ubuntu-es-es, #ubuntu and some ubuntu related channels too.
* My website is http://openblog.methril.net

=== Involvment ===
 Actually i'm not really involved with the ubuntu community, but i'm going to start helping with some bugs and strange behaviour taht encounter with my OpenEmbedded development. I see some unusual errors in that field that only happens with Ubuntu and some debian distributions. 
 My main involvments in the OpenSource community are listed in my blog, but i hope that they grow more and more.
 I'm an active member of the openmoko community.

=== Interests ===
 I'm interested in embedded, kernel and device drivers development.
 I'm also interested in get the things working first time (trademark) :)
