{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

About Me:

* FullName     : Mohd Fauzi Abd Rahman <<BR>>
* IRC Nickname : mfauzirahman <<BR>>
* Facebook Acc : Abah Agharr Fauzi (Agharr is by lovely son name) <<BR>>
* Age          : 35 years <<BR>>
* Status       : Married <<BR>>
* Working as   : Team Leader Customer Service <<BR>>
* Education    : UIAM <<BR>>
* Email        : mfauzirahman@gmail.com <<BR>>
* Launchpad    : https://launchpad.net/~mfauzirahman <<BR>>
* Wiki link    : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mfauzirahman <<BR>>

I'm just a ordinary guy who was graduated from International Islamic University Malaysia 
(Bachelor is Islamic Revealed Knowledge & Political Sciences)<<BR>>
I love to get involved Computer & IT even though I do not have any certificate that related to IT.<<BR>>
I just learned about PC & IT from friends & Internet. <<BR>>
It is enough for me to fix the PC problem for me & families.<<BR>>

Currently I'm working as Team Leader Customer Service at Glenmarie Shah Alam.<<BR>>
I'm the only one in the office using Ubuntu <<BR>>

Why I use Ubuntu? <<BR>>

I'm started to use Linux OS since 2007 after introduced by one of my friend. <<BR>>
Starting with Fedora, I try to download Ubuntu 8.10 <<BR>>
With my friend guide & some knowledge from Mr Google, I try to install it to my laptop.<<BR>>
After 2nd attempt, I successfully install Ubuntu into my laptop. <<BR>>
I got no issue with drivers by using Ubuntu. Everything was installed perfectly.<<BR>>
No need to worry about virus, my laptop running smooth make me feel happy with Ubuntu.<<BR>>
Since then, I decide to use Ubuntu as my default OS (still using Windows due to office environment) <<BR>>

Contribution <<BR>>

There no contribution that I can be proud of at this moment as I started to join Ubuntu group (https://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntumy/). <<BR>>
Each member that need help, I will assist based on my knowledge accordingly.<<BR>>
But one thing for sure is all my family is using Ubuntu as default OS.<<BR>>
Hopefully I can contribute more to Ubuntu community in future <<BR>>
Community support contribution on https://answers.launchpad.net <<BR>>
Community support contribution on https://bugs.launchpad.net <<BR>>
