{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Mauricio Faria de Oliveira, apply for SRU Developer rights.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Mauricio Faria de Oliveira
|-
| '''IRC'''
| mfo
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~mfo
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mfo
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to reduce delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I Am ==

I started with Linux in 1999, using Conectiva, Red Hat, Slackware, Gentoo, Crux, Debian, and now Ubuntu.

I began working with Debian and Ubuntu around 2013 on the bootstrap of the `ppc64el` architecture/port for Debian 8 (Jessie) and Ubuntu 14.04 LTS (Trusty Tahr), going through a number of packaging and source code changes across userspace packages.

I started working with the Linux kernel in 2015, mostly on storage (device drivers and multipath) and a few arch/powerpc bits.

I joined Canonical in 2018 as part of the Support and Technical Services (STS) Sustaining Engineering Group (SEG) team, and have worked on a variety of Ubuntu problem reports from customers on kernel and server userspace.

== My Ubuntu Story ==

I first started with Debian in 2013 to bootstrap the `ppc64el` port while working for IBM on PowerPC-based servers, providing an initial/partial base for Canonical to bootstrap it for Ubuntu 14.04 LTS.

Later, I supported Ubuntu 14.04 LTS (and later releases) for internal teams at IBM with bug triage, debugging, and resolution, including reporting/mirroring bugs to Launchpad and providing fixes/debdiff patches.  Most of that work is related to storage, multipath and debian-installer support/enablement.

Finally, I joined Canonical in the Sustaining Engineering team in 2018, and have been working on userspace and kernel problems on Ubuntu on areas such as storage/networking/arch-x86 on several packages/components.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Mauricio+Faria+de+Oliveira&sponsoree_search=name | My Uploads (sponsoree)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mfo/+uploaded-packages | Launchpad Uploaded packages]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~mfo/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=OPINION&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=EXPIRED&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.structural_subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&search=Search | Launchpad Assigned Bugs ]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>

* openpty fails in xenial buildd chroots (''collaboration on analysis'')
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/livecd-rootfs/+bug/1844504

* Xenial: libblkid: fix false-positive/misdetection of nilfs2 filesystem with udev
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/util-linux/+bug/1842437

* tasks doing write()/fsync() hit deadlock in write_cache_pages()
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/cosmic/+source/linux/+bug/1824827

* Xenial: ZFS deadlock in shrinker path with xattrs 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/zfs-linux/+bug/1839521

* Can't change virtual terminal on login screen or when auto-login is enabled
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/bionic/+source/plymouth/+bug/1817738

* Ubuntu nodejs package isn't ABI compatible with mainline nodejs. 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nodejs/+bug/1779863

* bcache: risk of data loss on I/O errors in backing or caching devices 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/bionic/+source/linux/+bug/1829563

* libuv1 calls readlink() with buffer size zero for /proc/self (nodejs test-case failure on s390x and LXD)
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libuv1/+bug/1792647

* Regression for GMail after libssl upgrade with TLSv1.3
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uw-imap/+bug/1834340

* installer stock images fail to validate any HTTPS certificates (ca-certificates missing) 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1807023

* installer does not support iSCSI iBFT 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/bionic/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1817321

* Bionic: support for Solarflare X2542 network adapter (sfc driver) 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/bionic/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1836635

* iptables connlimit allows more connections than the limit when using multiple CPUs
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1811094

* iproute2/xenial: Add support for the VF Trust setting (fix IPv6 multicast under SR-IOV on Mellanox adapters) 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/iproute2/+bug/1800877

* UbuntuKVM: migration using NFS mount fails #190
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libvirt/+bug/1637601

* multipathd.socket unit fails to start ("Failed to listen on sockets: Address already in use")
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+bug/1682178

* hw-detect modprobes blindly, ignoring blacklists 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/+bug/1602717

* multipath discovery failed during install due to LVM volumes locking individual paths 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/+bug/1549504

* [PowerVM] Ubuntu 16.04 does not install bootloader on multiple PReP partitions in Software RAID1 configuration 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub-installer/+bug/1550448

* Unable to install Ubuntu 16.04 on Tuleta with multipath setup 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/+bug/1546606

* LTE: ISST:leeklp4 no mpath choices for install ubuntu 15.10 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+bug/1489379

=== Areas of work ===

I've been mostly involved in debugging and resolving bugs reported by Canonical's Ubuntu Advantage customers on both kernel and userspace components, sometimes identifying and writing synthetic test-cases for problems which are difficult/rare to reproduce.  This work includes triage, debug, reproduce, fix (possibly upstream/Debian), backport, prepare SRU, and verify -proposed.

I usually work/cooperate with members of the Sustaining Engineering team, such as ddstreet, slashd, jvosburgh, and also the Stable Kernel team, such as klebers, smb, cascardo, mhcerri, and trudd; and sometimes (ex)members of the Foundations team, such as cyphermox, and cjwatson.  They've been always helpful and productive to work with.

=== Things I could do better ===

Time/task management, efficiency, and smile more are probably the top of the list (which goes on).

=== Plans for the future ===

Keep improving Ubuntu, Linux, and myself, and helping others to be successful with Ubuntu.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Documentation on some areas/tools/processes is hard to find/rare/non-existent (e.g., some Launchpad/PPA builders things, some/partial set of rules for SRU uploads.)

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

I've been working with Maurício both in Canonical and in a previous company for that last 4 years, and I can say it was nothing but a pleasure. He's quite ingenious in his solutions, detailed in the debug reports / test-cases and committed to provide the best solution to customers or anybody that benefits from his work. In addition to that he's a great human being, always ready to help a friend with his expertise and deep knowledge. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:gpiccoli]]</nowiki> 

I have not sponsored any packages for Mauricio, I did however review and release a few SRUs he prepared for various stable series. The updates he prepared were always of high quality, with all the required paperwork filled in with care. From my experience, Mauricio's SRU verifications were always detailed and thorough. He seems to be the type of person that does not simply 'upload-and-forget', but always tries to drive his uploads till the end. So even though I can't endorse his application, I do think he is ready to apply for SRU Developer membership. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:sil2100]]</nowiki> 
== Endorsements ==
=== slashd ===
==== General feedback ====
The packages I've sponsored and other updates I've seen were high quality. Mauricio has a great attention to detail and he his always willing to ask question when in doubt.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have sponsored "debian-installer", "hw-detect", "partman", "iproute2" and more recently "util-linux" where Mauricio went above and beyond identifying the root cause of a FTBFS situation for "util-linux" blocking his ongoing SRU caused by a sudden change in "livecd-rootfs".

==== Areas of Improvement ====
As a next step for Mauricio, I would like to see more involvement in merges, syncs, etc ...

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:slashd]]</nowiki> 

=== Dan Streetman ===

==== General feedback ====

mfo is one of my team members, so I've worked closely with him for over a year.  He always shows an extreme attention to detail, and does top-quality work.  He's very smart and has picked up the SRU process well.  I have had very few problems with any of his SRUs.  He is quick to ask questions if he has any concerns or is unfamiliar with anything, and he is always very responsive to feedback as well as proactive during the SRU process.  He is ready to have access to upload directly to any SRU release.

==== Specific experiences of working together ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Version
| Bugs
| Action
| Notes
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer|debian-installer]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/20101020ubuntu557.1|20101020ubuntu557.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer|debian-installer]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/20101020ubuntu543.4|20101020ubuntu543.4]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ca-certificates|ca-certificates]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ca-certificates/20170717~14.04.2|20170717~14.04.2]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ca-certificates|ca-certificates]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ca-certificates/20170717~16.04.2|20170717~16.04.2]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer|debian-installer]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/20101020ubuntu451.27|20101020ubuntu451.27]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer|debian-installer]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/20101020ubuntu318.45|20101020ubuntu318.45]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect|hw-detect]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/1.117ubuntu6.19.04.1|1.117ubuntu6.19.04.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect|hw-detect]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/1.117ubuntu6.18.10.1|1.117ubuntu6.18.10.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect|hw-detect]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/1.117ubuntu6.18.04.1|1.117ubuntu6.18.04.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-iscsi|partman-iscsi]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-iscsi/40ubuntu3.19.04.1|40ubuntu3.19.04.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-iscsi|partman-iscsi]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-iscsi/40ubuntu3.18.10.1|40ubuntu3.18.10.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-iscsi|partman-iscsi]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-iscsi/40ubuntu3.18.04.1|40ubuntu3.18.04.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uw-imap|uw-imap]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uw-imap/8:2007f~dfsg-5ubuntu0.18.04.1|8:2007f~dfsg-5ubuntu0.18.04.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uw-imap|uw-imap]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uw-imap/8:2007f~dfsg-5ubuntu0.19.04.1|8:2007f~dfsg-5ubuntu0.19.04.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uw-imap|uw-imap]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uw-imap/8:2007f~dfsg-6ubuntu1|8:2007f~dfsg-6ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/asterisk|asterisk]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/asterisk/1:16.2.1~dfsg-2build2|1:16.2.1~dfsg-2build2]]</nowiki>
| 
| rebuild
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mailsync|mailsync]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mailsync/5.2.2-3.1build2|5.2.2-3.1build2]]</nowiki>
| 
| rebuild
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/prayer|prayer]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/prayer/1.3.5-dfsg1-6build1|1.3.5-dfsg1-6build1]]</nowiki>
| 
| rebuild
| 
|}

==== Areas of improvement ====

It's hard to think of many areas for improvement for him, if limited only to the SRU area; I would have to agree with slashd above that mfo's main area for improvement is to become more familiar with the devel release processes (merges, syncs, etc), which does not apply to an SRU developer, but will be important when/if he applies for core developer.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ddstreet]]</nowiki> 

=== cyphermox ===
==== General feedback ====
I've worked with Mauricio in the past on multipath-tools and multipath-related changes to packaging in debian-installer, and I'm quite happy with the work I've seen; I wholeheartedly recommend him for SRU developer status.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've sponsored a few uploads for d-i components for Mauricio, all of quite acceptable quality:
** https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Mathieu+Trudel-Lapierre&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Mauricio+Faria+de+Oliveira&sponsoree_search=name

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Mauricio would do well to coordinate with more teams, by which I mean to communicate what he is doing and get working with the other teams (Server, Foundations) to get his name known.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cyphermox]]</nowiki> 

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
