{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

Mauricio Faria de Oliveira.

I started with Linux in 1999, using Conectiva, Red Hat, Slackware, Gentoo, Crux, Debian, and now Ubuntu.

I began working with Debian and Ubuntu around 2013 on the bootstrap of the `ppc64el` architecture/port for Debian 8 (Jessie) and Ubuntu 14.04 LTS (Trusty Tahr), going through a number of packaging and source code changes across userspace packages.

I started working with the Linux kernel in 2015, mostly on storage (device drivers and multipath) and a few `arch/powerpc` bits.

I joined Canonical in 2018 as part of the Support and Technical Services (STS) Sustaining Engineering Group (SEG) team, and have worked on a variety of Ubuntu problem reports from customers on kernel and server userspace.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| mfo on freenode, oftc, canonical
|-
| Email
| mfo@canonical.com
|-
| Website
| https://launchpad.net/~mfo https://buggy.link
|}

=== Applications ===

* <nowiki>[[mfo-sru-developer|SRU Developer]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===

* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Mauricio+Faria+de+Oliveira&sponsoree_search=name | My Uploads (sponsoree)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mfo/+uploaded-packages | Launchpad Uploaded packages]]</nowiki>

=== Testimonials ===

'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
