{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My real name is Marc Gariépy. I live in Sherbrooke, QC, CA. I work for Révoluiton Linux, as a linux technician, I mostly deploy ltsp-cluster for school districts. I'm quite familiar with desktop management (gnome, kde, freedesktop.org). I am most active on Launchpad, I try to be present on IRC.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~mgariepy
|-
| IRC
| mgariepy: #ltsp, #edubuntu
|-
| Jabber
| mgariepy _at_ jabber _dot_ revolutionlinux _dot_ com
|-
| Email
| You can contact me using one of my emails on my launchpad account
|}

=== Contributions ===

I am upstream member of ltsp (https://launchpad.net/ltsp) and ltsp-cluster(https://launchpad.net/ltsp-cluster), so I have submited/corrected a few bugs for those projects. I have contributed edubuntu-menueditor ( https://launchpad.net/menueditor) for Edubuntu, so administrator simply change menus layout on the system for differents group of users.

=== Edubuntu Council application ===

I want to be part of edubuntu council because
* I have been working with schoolboards deploying LTSP-cluster and desktop solutions for about 2.5 years at Revolution Linux,
* I am contributing to edubuntu by being upstream to LTSP, LTSP-cluster and the author of edubuntu-menueditor,
* I am active with edubuntu since about 1 year,
* I want to see ubuntu/edubuntu community grow,
* I attend meeting regularly.

=== Future Goals ===

* Become an ubuntu member
* Stay active in LTSP and in Edubuntu

----
CategoryHomepage
