{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Micah Gersten, apply for upload rights for the Mozilla Package Set.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Micah Gersten
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~micahg]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/micahg]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a PHP Web Application developer by day.  I have been using Linux for most of the past 10 years.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using Ubuntu around 7.10 after I gave up on Windows.  I started with Kubuntu, but moved to Xubuntu after I saw KDE 4.  I might try it again someday as I had used KDE from 2000-2005.

=== My involvement ===
I've started working in the Answer Tracker in Dec 2008.  I then moved to bugs in Apr 2009.  I became a Bug Control Member in May 2009.  During Fall 2009, I started helping with the Mozilla Daily builds.  In Oct 2009, I became a member of the Ubuntu Mozilla Team.  

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
I helped get xulrunner-1.9.2, Thunderbird 3, and Seamonkey 2 ready for and into Lucid.

=== Areas of work ===
* Mozilla Team
* Zend Framework Team (backports PPA)

The Mozilla packages have about 4k outstanding bugs.  When I started working with Firefox bugs, I brought the number from 1500 New bugs down to about 1000, but since I've been doing packaging, I haven't had as much time for bug triage.  Packaging updates for minor revisions of Mozilla apps are relatively easy.  Major revisions usually require a bit of work.

=== Things I could do better ===
I could be a little more organized with regard to tasks and estimate better how long a task will take me.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===
Get a good handle on the Mozilla Package set and try to get all the patches upstreamed and the packages up to latest Debian Policy version.  Eventually go for MOTU and maybe even core-dev.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Lack of tools for easily selecting PPAs and choosing which version of an app one wishes (daily, beta, stable, archive only).
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Fabrice Coutadeur (fabrice_sp) ===
==== General feedback ====
I only sponsored one SRU for him that was crashing Firefox, but it was a no problems upload.
I've seen a lot Micah in #ubuntu-motu, and gives good answer to people questions, so he seems to be a good asset for Ubuntu.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uim/+bug/477513
==== Areas of Improvement ====
None that I know :-)

=== Benjamin Drung ===
==== General feedback ====
I know Micah from the #ubuntu-mozillateam IRC channel. He is very active there as a member of our Mozilla team. I sponsored only three uploads for him. The sponsored uploads were all quite trivial, but I looked at his other work and think that he is qualified to get upload rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pidgin-microblog/+bug/530660
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-python-extras/+bug/562789
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xiphos/+bug/536877

=== Alexander Sack (asac) ===

I found Micah working restlessly on mozilla related bugs about a year ago and encouraged him to join the #ubuntu-mozillateam channel to make better use of this time; from there on he stepped up, first helping on the maintaining the mozilla daily builds, fixing to rebase small and later large patches; then took over baking the security updates and at the same time he adopted more and more packages that were neglected for quite a while.

Early this year Micah then contributed significantly to the firefox 3.6 porting to hardy-lucid effort and took a leading role getting ports staged in a ppa for lucid and later on took responsibility to support the backporting efforts to hardy-karmic.

Overall I am impressed by the learning curve Micah went through, from a bug triager to a full member of the ubuntu mozillateam with access to all branches and good understanding of upstream procedures and good upstream relationship. I am convinced he has accumulated the technical skills and experience to take care of the mozilla packaging set and highly recommend him for this role.

=== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ===
==== General feedback ====

I became a member of ubuntu-mozillateam much later than Micah did, and since I joined, Micah has been helping a lot with the Firefox 3.6 transition work in Lucid (and now also in all of the other Ubuntu releases). Micah is also very active with triaging Mozilla bugs. He is familiar with upstream processes/procedures and has a good relationship with upstream Mozilla developers. Micah approaches the general day-to-day maintenance proactively, such as keeping our maintained packages up-to-date, fixing daily-build issues, keeping the stable PPA up-to-date etc.

I have no doubt that Micah has the technical ability required for upload rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/seamonkey/2.0.4+nobinonly-0ubuntu1|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/seamonkey/2.0.4+nobinonly-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/3.0.4+nobinonly-0ubuntu4|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/3.0.4+nobinonly-0ubuntu4]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Specs/Lucid/FirefoxNewSupportModel/xulrunner-list|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Specs/Lucid/FirefoxNewSupportModel/xulrunner-list]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-mozilla-team-discussion|https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-mozilla-team-discussion]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galeon/2.0.7-1ubuntu4|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galeon/2.0.7-1ubuntu4]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/edbrowse/3.4.1-1ubuntu1|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/edbrowse/3.4.1-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubufox/0.9~b1-0ubuntu2|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubufox/0.9~b1-0ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-chemistry-utils/0.10.12-2ubuntu1|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-chemistry-utils/0.10.12-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/3.0.4+nobinonly-0ubuntu1|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/3.0.4+nobinonly-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>

==== Areas of Improvement ====

None really, keep up the good work :)

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
