{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Micah Gersten, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Micah Gersten
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~micahg
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/micahg
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm currently an Ubuntu Security Engineer.  Before that, I was working with open source technologies for about 11 years.  Some of these are: PHP, Perl, MySQL, Apache

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using Ubuntu about 4.5 years ago in the form of Feisty.  I think I switched to Ubuntu as my primary OS after Gutsy was released.  I started trying to help out in the Answer Tracker in Dec 2008.  In Apr 2009, I moved over to working with bugs, with a specific focus on Firefox.  I gained membership in the Ubuntu Bug Control about a month and a half later. Then I started to work on fixed the build failures for the Mozilla daily PPAs.  After several months, I became a member of the Ubuntu Mozilla Team.  The first UDS I actively participated in was UDS-L and I was participating remotely.  I was part of the team that worked on the xulrunner-1.9.2 transition for Lucid.  At UDS-M, I actually got to meet a lot of the wonderful people involved in the creation and maintenance of Ubuntu. It was truly an amazing experience.  It was there that I talked to various people and got the ok to plan for a Mozilla package set which I applied for the creation of and eventually the ability to upload to it.  All the while, I was trying to learn more and helping people in Ubuntu channels (#ubuntu-bugs, #ubuntu-motu, #ubuntu-devel).  In Nov 2010, after having sufficient sponsored uploads outside of the Mozilla package set, I applied for MOTU.  This past summer, I became a Xubuntu developer after assisting with the various merges/syncs/seed changes related to that project.  I was also recently elected to the DMB (but you already know that ☺).

=== My involvement ===
* DMB member since Sep 2011
* Xubuntu Dev member since Jul 2011
* Ubuntu Security member since Feb 2011
* MOTU since Nov 2010
* Mozilla Package Set uploader since July 2010
* Ubuntu Mozilla Team member since Oct 2009
* Ubuntu Bug Control since May 2009
* Answer Questions on IRC (#ubuntu-motu. #ubuntu-devel, #ubuntu-bugs, and various other channels)

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
==== Merges ====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pidgin/1:2.7.11-1ubuntu1|Pidgin 2.7.11]]</nowiki>

==== FTBFS ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/882417|swig1.3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pidgin/1:2.7.11-1ubuntu2|pidgin]]</nowiki>

==== Syncs ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/882417|pygments]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/837557|ca-certificates]]</nowiki>

==== Transitions ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/877109|directfb for libjpeg]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/818132|libjpeg8 is not default]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/805778|GTK2 to multiarch]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/820773|glew1.5 isn't default]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/oneiric/+source/gwenview/4:4.7.0-0ubuntu4|gwenview should use the default libjpeg]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/transitions/wxwidgets2.6.html|wxwidgets2.8 tracker]]</nowiki>

==== Seed Changes ====
While these were for a seed that I had upload rights to, it shows proficiency in a core activity:
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/ubuntu-seeds/xubuntu.oneiric|Xubuntu Oneiric]]</nowiki>

==== Security Fixes ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/837557|nss]]</nowiki>

==== SRU ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/883112|python-cups]]</nowiki>

=== Things I could do better ===
Not take on more tasks than I can finish.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===
I'd like to help upstream more Ubuntu specific changes to Debian and drive updates that I can through Debian.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Trouble keeping updated versions of applications that people want readily in the archive.  This requires lots of different users to build their own versions in PPAs which seems like a waste of PPA buildd time (which has been scarce as of late).
----
== Comments ==

Although I don't recall if I've sponsored any uploads for Micah, but I know I've reviewed a number of exception requests as part of the release team.  They've always been well considered and appropriate for where we were in the development process.  I'm confident Micah would make an excellent core-dev. ScottKitterman

While there was only one occasion where I sponsored something for him, I've known Micah for a long time from his BugSquad and Mozilla work, and found him to always be a reliable answer contact for mozilla software. From what I've seen of his work lately I believe he'll make a great core-dev in the future.
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:yofel]]</nowiki> 
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== MarcDeslauriers (mdeslaur) ===
==== General feedback ====
I keep forgetting micahg isn't already a core-dev. He's incredibly knowledgeable in Debian packaging and policy related questions, and he's often the one I turn to to get answers on both of those topics. He has great community involvement.

He is an incredibly talented individual who would make a great asset to the core-dev team, and I recommend him without hesitation.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have sponsored a couple of uploads for him in the past, without any issues.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
He may be slightly direct sometimes with suggestions, which can be misinterpreted as nitpicking.

=== JamieStrandboge (jdstrand) ===
==== General feedback ====
Micah is very knowledgeable about packaging and Ubuntu policies. He is a very active community member, is very careful about uploads and is not afraid to ask questions. Seeing his participation in the community and UDS I believe he represents Ubuntu well. I whole-heartedly recommend him for core-dev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
As Micah's manager I have worked with him very closely for a some time. In terms of sponsored items, I have reviewed and sponsored a few uploads without issue. Before I became Micah's manager, I worked very closely with the Mozilla team (which Micah is a part of) in processing and testing security uploads and this work was always of very high quality.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jdstrand]]</nowiki> 
=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===
==== General feedback ====
I haven't sponsored a lot from Micah, but I've seen a lot of updates from him, and can't remember a case where an upload was inappropriate or seriously broken. I echo Marc's sentiment that he can appear as being very direct at times, but I find that very helpful indeed, as it reminds everyone that we need to follow up with questions and bugs and not leave them half-addressed. Actually I thought he already had been core-dev for a long time, so +1 from me to make him one now.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Sponsored
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pidgin/1:2.7.11-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pidgin/1:2.7.11-1ubuntu2

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pitti]]</nowiki> 

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Micah does great work across the board, is always keen to help. +1 for becoming coredev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pygments/+bug/882417
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wvstreams/+bug/826500
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lcms/+bug/815533
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/igerman98/+bug/815531
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxml++2.6/+bug/779827
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sqlite3/+bug/623722
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/yasm/+bug/614903

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki> 
=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===
==== General feedback ====

Micah helped a lot to fix build failures during the oneiric release cycle; I don't remember what kind of packages I sponsored. The fixes for the build failures usually were ok and didn't require a second upload.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Sometimes a bit quick to commit to something, which then gets dropped due to lack of time ;-)

=== Kees Cook (kees) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have always been impressed with Micah's breadth of knowledge in Ubuntu and Debian. He is always on top of recent topics, and understands the details about any developing consensus. I've also been very happy with his attention to detail in packaging, bug fixing, and everywhere else. As other have already said, "Wait, what? Why isn't he core-dev already?" :)

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
It was a delight to work with Micah on the Ubuntu Security Team. When he took over browser security updates, I knew that entire area was in good hands.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Sometimes I get the impression Micah never sleeps. This is a biological requirement, so I would recommend at least some naps if a full night's sleep is not in the cards. ;)

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
