{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== IRC Meeting on March 6, 2011 ==

=== Where? When? ===

* Location: All Michigan IRC meetings are held in the #ubuntu-us-mi channel on Freenode.
** Unsure what the previous sentence meant: Read <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam-IRC|this guide]]</nowiki>.

* Time: 9pm

=== Agenda ===
1. Ubuntu Global Jam - Greg Grossmeier @ Mon, 07 March 2011 01:47 UTC
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
** Friday April 1st - Sunday the 3rd
** Set the date, location, topics
1. Natty Release Party - Greg Grossmeier @ Mon, 07 March 2011 01:48 UTC
** http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/744/detail/
** Thursday April 17th-ish
** Set the date, location
1. Ubuntu Hour - Greg Grossmeier @ Mon, 07 March 2011 01:48 UTC
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour
** http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/17/detail/
** Who wants to host one where?
1. MUG memberships - Richard Harding @ Mon, 07 March 2011 01:51 UTC
** Joint MUG memberships as a 'organization' and sponsoring a meeting and doing the content
1. PCon - Richard Harding @ Mon, 07 March 2011 01:52 UTC
** Group participation? Haven't seen requests for help/content from the Loco? Anyone know what's up?
## Questions/Comments/Suggestions
## Close

=== Synopsis ===

* We'll plan to have a Global Jam Event at SRT solutions in Ann Arbor on April 3 starting at noon. We need to contact someone at SRT Solutions to ensure we can use the facility. At a minimum we'll do several installation attempts of Natty.
* An East side Natty Release Party will be held at Penguicon on or around April 30 pending coordination with that event. A West side event will be held on April 28 in coordination with the regular meeting of the West Michigan Linux Users Group.
* On the East Side, they will make it known that the regular Coffee House Coder meetings are a great place to talk about Ubuntu. On the West side, Ben Rousch will consider starting an Ubuntu Hour.
* Greg Grossmeier will be taking donations via PayPal so that the Ubuntu Michigan LoCo can join the Michigan Unix Group as a corporation and sponsor a meeting.
* No one has heard from Penguicon regarding Michigan LoCo participation.

=== Log ===
* Can be found <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam-Meetings-20110306log|Here]]</nowiki>
