{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
This is the Ubuntu-US-Michigan LoCo's Bug Team. Our purpose is to triage (confirm, assign packages, check for duplicates, gather information) the vast amount of bugs in Launchpad, and also to spread the knowledge of how to triage bugs to others.

== Contact ==
In addition to the normal Michigan Team contacts, Bug Team members should also frequent #ubuntu-bugs on Freenode.

== How to Contribute ==
The easiest way to contribute is to search for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-datecreated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=New&field.assignee=&field.owner=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=on|bugs with no assigned package]]</nowiki> and pick the low-hanging fruit... if it's obvious what package a bug belongs to, assign it! If multiple people have already added their "me too"s to the bug, confirm it!

Check the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/KnowledgeBase|Bug Squad Knowledge Base]]</nowiki> for much more info.

== Projects ==
Next <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay|Ubuntu Hug Day]]</nowiki> is December 5th.

Our own <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam/Meetings/IRC-20071205|Hug Day Page]]</nowiki> with resources.

== Meetings ==
Need to hold a triage class soon. If not before December 5th, before the next Hug Day.

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
