{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
The goal of the Michigan Team is to promote the use of Ubuntu in all contexts.  By ALL contexts we mean personal use, education, government, and corporate situations.  Everywhere a desktop OS is needed.

== Contact ==
'''IRC:''' #ubuntu-us-mi on irc.libera.chat (Main Hangout)

'''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-mi|Ubuntu-Michigan]]</nowiki> (Official Membership list)

'''Mailing-list:''' <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-us-mi|Ubuntu-us-mi]]</nowiki> (Main means of contact)

'''Team Contact:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~craig-decafbad|Craig Maloney]]</nowiki>

'''Personnel List:''' See the <nowiki>[[Members|Members Page]]</nowiki>

'''Telegram:''' <nowiki>[[https://telegram.me/ubuntuusmi|Telegram Chat]]</nowiki>

'''Matrix:''' <nowiki>[[https://matrix.to/#/#loco-us-mi:ubuntu.com|Matrix Chat]]</nowiki>

== Meetings & Events ==

Want to meet up with fellow members in person? View our upcoming '''<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-us-mi/events/|calendar of events]]</nowiki>.'''  (''<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-us-mi/events/history|previous events]]</nowiki>'')

== Projects & Resources ==

'''See what our experience can do for you!''' Check out our <nowiki>[[Projects|Projects & Resources]]</nowiki> page.

== New To Ubuntu/Linux? ==

Check out our <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam-NewUsers|New Users]]</nowiki> page.  It has a lot of resources for you to ask for help or seek out helpful information.

== Launchpad Membership Policy ==
Very simple, request to join <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-mi|here]]</nowiki> and you will be approved.

When you apply for membership for the team on Launchpad, please join the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-us-mi|mailing list]]</nowiki>.  Otherwise there really isn't a way to communicate.

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryLoCoTeams
