{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Michigan team has historically been one of the leading organizations with the Ubuntu community; starting with Bug Jams (now Global Jams), and recently trying to recruit more interest in Ubuntu-related activities with the online global jams. It's not been easy keeping the momentum but we're looking for new ways to keep our Loco thriving.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 2013-11-16
* '''Team Contact''' - Craig Maloney <craig@decafbad.net>
* '''Membership''' - 243 as of 2013-11-16
* '''Launchpad Team''' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-mi
* '''Mailing List''' - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-mi
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-us-mi on freenode
* '''Loco Directory''' - http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-michigan/

=== Roadmap ===

We intend to continue holding regular monthly meetings and release parties. Our global jams have been spartan with their attendance but we're looking to continue our loco activities in the face of dwindling enthusiastic membership.

We are looking forward to continuing to use our loco directory page which is turning out to be an excellent resource for keeping up to date with our group. It's available from the following location:

http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-michigan/

=== Experience ===

Our previous meetings, events and the like are available under our loco directory page:

http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-michigan/
