{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Michal Kohutek ==

I'm a long time Ubuntu user, daily driving it since 2007. I've helped numerous people and a few small businesses either full or partially move to Ubuntu and for the past few years, I've been the administrator and the semi-official liaison with the Czechoslovakian Ubuntu community. With the help of fellow members, we've been maintaining the Ubuntu CZ/SK website, forums and Telegram support group. I've also been an active volunteer and organizer of many Ubuntu-related events in Czechia and abroad. I've helped out with booths at FOSDEM and Linux App Summit and organized booths at OpenAlt, LinuxDays, DevConf and others.  

I have self-nominated for a seat at the Matrix Council in order to be able to influence the shape of the Ubuntu community on the platform, sharing my experience with maintaining community and also gathering experience of moving a significant portion of the "community chatter" to a more organized, but also open platform. At the moment, most of the Ubuntu CZ/SK discussions are happening on our Telegram channel, which serves it's purpose fine, but it would be nice not to be bound to a proprietary messaging service.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Emails
| 
| michal.kohutek@ubuntu.cz
|-
| 
| 
| michal@kohutek.eu
|-
| 
| 
| kohutek@ubuntu.cz
|-
| Launchpad profile
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kohutek|Michal Kohutek]]</nowiki>
|-
| Website
| 
| <nowiki>[[Personal tech blog|https:--lordsoftech.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| Telegram
| 
| <nowiki>[[Michal Kohutek| https:--t.me-tylnesh]]</nowiki>
|-
| LinkedIn
| 
| <nowiki>[[Michal Kohutek| https:--www.linkedin.com-in-michal-kohutek-49271ab4-]]</nowiki>
|-
| Mastodon
| 
| <nowiki>[[Michal Kohutek| https:--fosstodon.org-@tylnesh]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Goals ===

* Increase the user engagement and community-awareness of users in Czechia and Slovakia
* Merge and officially reboot the LoCo in Slovakia and Czechia
* Promote diversity and acceptance of difference in my traditionally very conservative countries 
* Organize volunteer events improving the support for Non-English speaking users in Central Europe

=== Testimonials ===

'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

----

I was very excited to hear that Michal finally applied for the Ubuntu Membership!

My initial encounter with Michal was at Ubucon Europe 2017 in Paris, and since then, our paths seem intertwined at every Ubuntu or Open Source gathering. Encountering him is always a delight. He’s an active contributor, adeptly managing presentations and booths at conferences, lending support in project groups, consistently writing insightful blog posts about Ubuntu, and playing an active role in his local community.

Michal embodies the essence of what our community needs more of, and I extend my heartfelt support for his membership application. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:marius.quabeck]]</nowiki> 
----

I’ve known Michal since 2017, where I’ve met him at Ubucon Europe 2017. Since then I’ve seen him on many occasions, for international events promoting Ubuntu and the best of Free Software, running Ubuntu community booths, doing presentations, connecting people. I’ve also seen his multiple efforts on making the Ubuntu Community coming and staying together, and trying to revitalize the Local Ubuntu Community in Slovakia and Czechia.

Tylnesh is a true Ubuntu Community champion, which should be an Ubuntu Member. I see him also doing meaningful contributions for the LoCo Council. We need more people like him.

<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:DiogoConstantino]]</nowiki> ----

I have meet this ubuntu friend during Ubuntu & FLOSS events (UbuCon, Ubuntu Party, Fosdem, …), always with enthusiasm and I’ve seen him showing himself in the front line many times if he sees that he can help ! Also, I can’t wait to share another social event again with him.
I have also see him active via online resources (Ubuntu chat related group, …). He put effort to organize things and his work has been seen from the Ubuntu Europe Federation itself; his efforts for the Slovakia and Czechia LoCos are very inspiring. He is very active. Share great values.

I strongly support Michal’s Ubuntu member application.

<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cm-t]]</nowiki> ----

Michal is in my contact list, probably, since Ubucon Europe in Paris. Since then it is evident his effort and commitment helping Ubuntu and the Ubuntu community grow.
His creativity and singularity help him move from good, sometimes crazy, ideas to good community projects.

Go go go, Michal!

<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tcarrondo]]</nowiki>
----

next testimonial here

----
CategoryHomepage
