{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== IRC Meeting on November 4th, 2007 ==

=== Agenda ===

  1: Welcome

  2: Packaging Jam recap

  3: Small groups discussion

   a: West Coasters: ideas for activities?

   b: North-Central: ideas?

   c: East Coasters: ideas?

  4: LUG/SIG cooperation [greg-g]

   d: any groups you want to collaborate with?  On what?

  5: Penguicon discussion [tjagoda]

  6: New User/Member resource creation? (FAQ, Tutorials, etc) [greg-g]

  7: Questions/Comments/Suggestions

  8: Close

=== Synopsis ===

* Talked about a group in the Troy area to better serve those who can not make it to Ann Arbor.

* LAN Party preliminary discussion.  Lead for that is tjagoda

* greg-g will work on making a Google Calendar of Linux related events in Michigan

* Packaging Jam recap from rick_h: turn out was good and all had a good time.  This will definitely be a recurring activity.

* Activities for PenguiCon are coming along nicely.  We are wanting to put on a panel (topic: Hardy? Intro to Ubuntu?) and help running the computer lab with the LUG (will need volunteers, no Linux troubleshooting skills required, but nice).

* New User resources: a phone-book directory for new users of Linux/Ubuntu with groups in their area that they can join and computer stores that support Linux.

=== Log ===

* Can be found <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam/Meetings/20071104log|Here]]</nowiki>
