{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== We're Approved! ==

=== The Application that we Submitted ===

* <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam/ApprovalApplication|Approval Application]]</nowiki>

=== Log of the Community Council Meeting ===

<pre>
11:36 <  dholbach> ok... let's move on to the folks of the Michigan team then and get back to Denmark later
11:36 <  dholbach> Who's here from the Michigan team?
11:36 <    greg-g> Hello, I'm Greg Grossmeier, Team Lead/Contact for the Michigan LoCo Team (where it is a pleasent -1*C today).  We also have a few team members here watching today.
11:37              AlexDeGruven raises his hand
11:37              rick_h_ looks from the shadows
11:37 <   jcastro> \o/
11:37              atoponce cheers on greg-g and MI
11:37              tjagoda raised hand
11:37 <      elmo> [it'd be wrong to +1 the michigan team on the basis of the RHCP song, right?]
11:38 <   rick_h_> elmo: never wrong to +1 MI
11:38 <    greg-g> :)
11:38 < Burgundav> as wrong as it would be to -1 them on the basis of jorge living in the state ;)
11:38 <    sabdfl> interesting - seems quite a few folks came to the last irc meeting
11:38 < PriceChil> !away > dendro-away (see the pm from ubotu)
11:38 <    sabdfl> is chris dibona based in michigan?
11:38 <   rick_h_> no, he's in CA
11:38 <    greg-g> sabdfl: no.. ...
11:38 <   rick_h_> he came and saw us with Mako a bit ago though
11:39 <    greg-g> see rick_h's answer :)
11:39 <    sabdfl> good of him to show up then :-)
11:39 <    sabdfl> how many folks are regulars at your meetings?
11:39 <    greg-g> anywhere from 2 of us (bad busy days) to 10ish
11:39 <  dholbach> I'm particularly happy to see PackagingJams happening in Michigan - that's awesome: how many people of you are considering becoming MOTUs? what do you think?
11:39 <   rick_h_> usually physical meetings are much larger than irc meetings somehow
11:40 <    greg-g> yeah, we haven't found a great time for everyone to make IRC meetings yet
11:40 <    MikeB-> greg-g: where in the state are you based
11:40 <   rick_h_> dholbach: right now there's maybe 2-4 of us. We're hoping to repeat the packaging jam in Jan and increase that
11:40 <    sabdfl> ok, looks fine to me, +1
11:40 <    greg-g> I am in Ann Arbor, South East side.. where most people are
11:40 <  dholbach> rick_h_: that's great, I'm really happy to see that happening
11:41 <    greg-g> dholbach: and some people are just interested for other reasons than being MOTUs
11:41 <  dholbach> apart from that the Loco seems to be really really organised, I'm happy to give +1
11:41 <      elmo> +1
11:41 < Burgundav> a stunning amount of work, +1 from me
11:41 <    MikeB-> +1 here
11:41 <  dholbach> greg-g, rick_h_: let's chat about that again, once I've got the packaging guide under control :)
11:41 <   rick_h_> greg-g: runs a tight ship
11:41 <    greg-g> dholbach: most definitely
11:41 <  dholbach> congratulations Michigan!
11:41 <  atoponce> greg-g: congrats on MI approval!!
11:41 <    greg-g> I try :)
11:41              dholbach hugs greg-g and rick_h_
11:41 <    greg-g> thanks!
11:41 <   jcastro> woo michigan!
11:41 < Palintheu> \o/ \o/ Congrats MI!!!!
11:42              tjagoda celebrates
11:42 <  atoponce> w00t!! 4 US Teams approved!!!
11:42 <    homanj> greg-g: congrats
11:42 <    greg-g> US Teams rock!
11:42 <    greg-g> thanks all
</pre>
