{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Log of the September 1st, 2008 Meeting ==

<pre>
[20:01] <wolfger> so... it's 8PM on the first Monday of the month. Who's here for the meeting? Anybody?
[20:01] <wolfger> Bueller?
[20:02] <wolfger> _stink_ evarlast greg-g jcastro merc n0p nebajoth noirtim rick_h snadymat04 snap-l vorian wolfger (oh wait, that's me!) 
[20:03] <merc> No!
[20:03] <evarlast> i'm always here
[20:04] <wolfger> OK, we have one not here, and two here. The heres win. :-)
[20:04] <wolfger> should be a real short meeting at this rate. Not much on the agenda to begin with.
[20:05] <_stink_> here!
[20:05] <sandymat04> yo
[20:05] <snap-l> lo
[20:05] <wolfger> we'll wait a couple minutes for straglers
[20:05] <_stink_> stranglers?
[20:05] <wolfger> and the pseudo-employed, like snap-l
[20:06] <wolfger> The agenda, which I literally posted less than 30 minutes ago, has 3 items:
[20:08] <merc> OK, now that the meeting is over ill go..
[20:08] <wolfger> brb... minor emergency
[20:09] <snap-l> np
[20:09] <snap-l> We're rearranging desks ATM
[20:09] <wolfger> ok, I'm back
[20:09] <wolfger> so, let the meeting commence
[20:10] <wolfger> Item 1: "Welcome"
[20:10] <sandymat04> tyvm
[20:10] <merc> Thanks.
[20:10] <wolfger> Welcome to our first meeting in half a year!
[20:10] <wolfger> which leads us to item #2
[20:10] <merc> meet more?
[20:10] <wolfger> IRC meetings. How often, and when, should we have them?
[20:11] <wolfger> I was tentatively scheduling meetings on IRC the first Monday of every month, 8PM
[20:11] <wolfger> is that good? Too frequent? Too infrequent?
[20:11] <wolfger> Is that a good time slot for everybody?
[20:11] <merc> I think it depends on the turnouts of the first few?
[20:11] <sandymat04> idk. i'm too new
[20:12] <merc> I'm not new but im not very active :\ just kinda lurk the list and idle here
[20:12] <wolfger> don't be bashful, snadymat04. We were all new a year ago ;-)
[20:12] <_stink_> i like the once a month deal
[20:13] <_stink_> many of us hang around here anyway, so more than that doesn't necessarily make sense to me
[20:14] <wolfger> Yeah, most of us hang day-to-day, but it's nice to have arranged times to congregate and discuss business (if any). I agree once a month is plenty, though.
[20:14] <sandymat04> btw this is Sandy. I met some of you at the bar in Royal Oak the other day
[20:14] <snap-l> Mondays after 8pm might be a tad difficult for me for a while
[20:14] <snap-l> I have class until 8pm, but won't be terribly late.
[20:14] <wolfger> 8:30?
[20:15] <snap-l> Don't feel you need to work around my schedule. It's all good. :)
[20:15] <wolfger> I can't go later than 9
[20:16] <snap-l> 8pm is fine
[20:16] <wolfger> OK, we'll stick with what I already put on the calendar, then.
[20:16] <_stink_> sandymat04: yo. this is Adam - i was at the MiDev thing too.
[20:17] <snap-l> sandymat04: This is Craig, from MI Developers.
[20:17] <sandymat04> hihi
[20:18] <sandymat04> ever consider using voice chat for the meating?
[20:19] <_stink_> yum
[20:19] <wolfger> never considered it, but certainly open to the idea, if it works for the group
[20:20] <wolfger> of course my issue is that I share a computer room with 2 other people, so you'd likely hear some background voices, barking, meowing, etc
[20:20] <wolfger> also IRC is friendlier to logging what happens at a meeting
[20:21] <_stink_> in my experience, if you include audio, you've got to go *all* audio
[20:21] <_stink_> doesn't mix w/ IRC
[20:21] <wolfger> right
[20:21] <sandymat04> true. people on IRC will miss out on a lot that doesn't get typed
[20:22] <snap-l> I think IRC is the way to go for official business.
[20:23] <wolfger> That being said, I think it's a great idea for LoCo memebers to share voice chat info with each other for increased unofficial communications
[20:24] <wolfger> but I prefer to connect via less realtime technologies, like IRC and identi.ca
[20:25] <sandymat04> anybody know of ventrilo style voice chat in Linux?
[20:26] <wolfger> I'm only familiar with Ekiga (if I recall the name correctly) and Skype. Not sure what Ventrilo is.
[20:26] <snap-l> sandymat04: I'm looking on their page. They have server software for Linux, but no clients.
[20:26] <sandymat04> i just remember from my Warcraft adicted days that 40 people can join a single chat channel. It works a bit like CB radio
[20:26] <wolfger> cool
[20:27] <_stink_> i used to know of a place to get free SIP voice rooms...
[20:27] <_stink_> lemme check
[20:27] <_stink_> we use it for WSULUG meetings
[20:27] <snap-l> I've signed back into Skype for work.
[20:27] <snap-l> Nickname is snap-l (creative, no?)
[20:28] <wolfger> a SIP voice room in conjunction with IRL meetings would be awesome (with a good speaker/mic setup)
[20:28] <_stink_> yeah - i think you can call 1222???????@proxy01.sipphone.com, where the ?s are any 7 digit number you choose, with any SIP client
[20:28] <_stink_> and get a free conference line
[20:28] <_stink_> then you tell people the ?s
[20:28] <_stink_> and have them dial in
[20:29] <_stink_> i've used ekiga and linphone w/ it just fine
[20:29] <_stink_> if it's not proxy01... then proxy02... should work
[20:29] <wolfger> Cool. Should probably do a writeup of that. (hint, hint)
[20:29] <_stink_> i kant writ
[20:30] <_stink_> :P
[20:30] <wolfger> lol
[20:30] <_stink_> on team wiki?
[20:30] <wolfger> that works
[20:30] <_stink_> will do
[20:30] <wolfger> OK. Are we ready for the 3rd tremendous topic of the evening?
[20:31] <_stink_> ooo
[20:31] <wolfger> IRL meetings.
[20:32] <wolfger> This was brought up on the mailing list recently that at least one west-sider is just out there doing good things, but not really announcing it to the group. Said he can't really make any of our IRL meetings because they're too far away.
[20:32] <jjesse> d'oh is the mtg going on now?
[20:32] <jjesse> sorry bout that
[20:32] <wolfger> Of course, the solution is to get some hot meeting action going on over on the west side
[20:33] <sandymat04> speed of light issures
[20:33] <wolfger> yes it is jjesse. Welcome
[20:34] <wolfger> While the people who organize meetings all live on da east side... it doesn't have to be that way. There's no rule forbidding any LoCo member from hosting meetings anywhere they durn well please.
[20:34] <_stink_> so i guess there are two parts to this: what do we do about IRL meetings here in SE Michigan; and what can we do to better incorporate people elsewhere?
[20:34] <wolfger> And in fact I encourage it
[20:34] <wolfger> yes
[20:34] <_stink_> er, yeah
[20:35] <wolfger> so I was hoping there'd be some west side representation here tonight, but it sounds like everybody knows each other from MI Dev group... :-p
[20:35] <snap-l> Or from Penguicon
[20:36] <_stink_> don't we have a pin map thing showing where people are? i wonder if we should bang on everyone to be sure they're on there so it's easier for all to see where people are...
[20:37] <wolfger> well, I think what we need is either a travelling leader to get meetings going elsewhere, or to somehow grow a leader in other areas. Most people want to do stuff, but nobody wants to organize
[20:37] <sandymat04> nice. i didn't see that
[20:37] <wolfger> I think we did have a pin map. Need to look it up
[20:37] <_stink_> i have to run - gotta actually prepare something to teach tomorrow. will read log later.
[20:37] <wolfger> ok, bye  _stink_
[20:38] <snap-l> later _stink_
[20:38] <_stink_> laters all
[20:39] <wolfger> So in terms of IRL meetings for the near future, I think OLF is going to be it... Sounds like a lot of MI LoCo folks are going to rock Columbus, Ohio in October
[20:39] <wolfger> We should try to organize some sort of get together (aside from running into each other accidentally at the bar)
[20:40] <snap-l> Or at MIDevelopers (cough)
[20:40] <wolfger> Anybody been to OLF before to know what it's going to be like?
[20:40] <snap-l> I've been the last few years.
[20:40] <sandymat04> oh that sounds nice. didn't know about it
[20:40] <snap-l> If my fscking site were up, I'd direct you to pictures.
[20:40] <wolfger> I'm picturing Penguicon without the costumes... but somehow I doubt that's accurate
[20:41] <snap-l> Think more like a show floor with talks.
[20:41] <snap-l> Lots of exhibitors
[20:41] <sandymat04> http://www.ohiolinux.org/speakers.html
[20:41] <snap-l> Folks like Sun, Silicon Mechanics, Novell, etc.
[20:41] <wolfger> sandymat04: hope you can make it.
[20:42] <wolfger> snap-l: is there a room party scene, or???
[20:42] <sandymat04> ....checking my calendar
[20:43] <snap-l> wolfger: I wouldn't know.
[20:43] <snap-l> I know there's a Google Afterparty (at least there was last year)
[20:44] <snap-l> http://flickr.com/search/?q=ohio+linuxfest
[20:45] <wolfger> If greg-g were here, I'd ask him about having a room party in our room Saturday night. I imagine somebody in our group will be having a party somewhere in the hotel...
[20:46] <snap-l> OLF is the place least likely to be run over by a guy in pirate garb, where Penguicon is the reverse.
[20:46] <wolfger> LOL
[20:47] <wolfger> I might just bring my pirate duds, for that very reason...
[20:47] <wolfger> OK, so is there anything else to discuss? I need to wrap it up on my end pretty soon.
[20:49] <snap-l> Outside of getting more participants from the west-side on here, not that I can think of
[20:49] <wolfger> And I want to say "thanks for rocking 5-a-day, guys". We're still big in the standings as a group
[20:50] * snap-l needs to get back on tha tbandwagon.
[20:50] <wolfger> Talk to you all again in a month (or less), and see you at OLF!
[20:50] <jcastro> yay!
[20:50] <jcastro> OLF!
[20:50] <wolfger> and jcastro shows at the very end... Thanks for gracing us with your presence ;-)
[20:51] <wolfger> official meeting adjourned. Back to your regularly unscheduled socializing. It's safe to come back, jjesse
</pre>
