{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
20:00 < snap-l> OK, it's 8pm
20:00 < rick_h_> party!
20:00 < snap-l> Who all is here?
20:01 < rick_h_> I'm sorta here
20:01 < snap-l> Anyone who isn't here, please say "ay"
20:01 < jrwren> weekly meeting tonight?
20:01 < jrwren> ay
20:02 < snap-l> OK, I guess we'll give some of the stragglers some time to hop on
20:02 < snap-l> I think there's only two orders of business that I have:
20:02 < snap-l> 1) Global Bug Jam
20:02 < snap-l> 2) 5-a-day
20:03 < snap-l> Anyone have anything they'd like to add to the agenda?
20:03 < rick_h_> pie
20:03 < snap-l> 3) pie
20:03 < rick_h_> sweet
20:03 < snap-l> OK, first off, Global Bug Jam is on the 21st of February.
20:04 < snap-l> It's going to be at the Clinton Macomb Public Library's Main Branch, address of which is in the Ubuntu MI calendar.
20:05 < snap-l> Same as before, if you want to use wireless, you'll need a one-day card.
20:05 < brousch_> one day card?
20:05 < snap-l> I'll plan on bringing a 4 port hub in case the wireless sucks
20:05 < snap-l> brousch_: Yes, it's a one-day library card
20:05 < snap-l> (grabbing info)
20:07 < snap-l> they don't have the info in an easy location
20:08 < snap-l> Hoping they didn't change their policy.
20:08 < snap-l> In the past, you could get a 1-day guest access pass to use the Wireless internet.
20:09 < brousch_> for free?
20:09 < snap-l> Also, if you didn't have that, I think the wired network didn't check, but I'm not sure if that's still an option
20:09 < snap-l> brousch_: It was either free or around $5.
20:09 -!- jjesse [n=jjesse@64.186.55.234] has joined #ubuntu-us-mi
20:09 < snap-l> Not remembering offhand
20:09 < brousch_> ok
20:10 < snap-l> Worst case, we'll figure something out. :)
20:10 < snap-l> They have an LCD projector, but a really shit screen
20:10 < snap-l> Does someone have a screen they could bring?
20:11 < brousch_> is it better to bring a computer loaded with stable ubuntu or the one in testing?
20:11 < snap-l> brousch_: As long as it has a working browser, it should be fine
20:12 < brousch_> right, macbook it is :P
20:12 < snap-l> If you can live with the social stigma, bring it. :)
20:12 < snap-l> I'm thinking of making reservations for afterward if folks are interested
20:12 < rick_h_> has anyone talked to the group out west about doing jam out there?
20:12 < brousch_> so it's mostly shuffling bugs around, not really testing them?
20:12 < rick_h_> there was an email to the list I thougt
20:13 < snap-l> jjesse: Have you planned anything on the west side.
20:13 < brousch_> klug is apparently having one, but i'm heading to you guys for my first jam
20:13 < snap-l> brousch_: You can test them as much as you feel comfortable
20:13 < snap-l> brousch_: Awesome!
20:14 < snap-l> Hopefully we can make it worth your while. :)
20:14 < brousch_> grlug is in bad shape, but i'll send out a message and see if anyone else is interested in riding together
20:14 < snap-l> Are there any preferences for afterward for eating and what-not?
20:15  * brousch_ just got a minivan, so he has room for 7 small geeks or 6 big ones
20:15 < snap-l> I was thinking Abuelo's. It's a nice Mexican restaurant with decent seating.
20:15 < snap-l> But there's also Olgas, National Coney Island, and just about every <2 star restaurant down Hall road.
20:16 < snap-l> Also Elias Brothers. :)
20:16 < snap-l> Can't forget the Big Boy.
20:17 < brousch_> it would be nice to having something not available on the west side
20:17 < brousch_> abuelo's, coney
20:17 < snap-l> Well, the Abuelo's is the only one in the state
20:18 < brousch_> sounds good to me
20:18 < snap-l> Any special diets?
20:19 -!- DBO [n=jason@unaffiliated/dbo] has joined #ubuntu-us-mi
20:21 < snap-l> OK, any questions, concerns?
20:22 < brousch_> how late will this run?
20:22 < snap-l> The jam is scheduled from 2 - 6pm
20:22 < snap-l> The library closes at 6pm, so we'll likely wrap up before 5:45
20:23 < snap-l> Or I'll be in deep shit with the librarians
20:25 < brousch_> scary
20:28 < snap-l> OK...
20:32 < snap-l> ok, before I completely go on an Ozric Tentacles youtube viewing binge, I wanted to ask who would like to present the GBJ?
20:33 < brousch_> i thought jorge was doing it
20:34 < snap-l> I don't think Jorge will present
20:34 < snap-l> He's not here right now, so I'm loathe to volunteer him
20:34 < brousch_> bummer
20:35 < snap-l> He may be there, though
20:36 < brousch_> i figure a canonical employee is as close as i'll ever get to touching mark shuttleworth ;)
20:36 < snap-l> Heh. :)
20:36 < snap-l> Well, if someone wants to step up and take the helm, I'd gladly let them.
20:37 < snap-l> If not, I'll take it.
20:37 < brousch_> i think we're the only ones here
20:37 < snap-l> I'm getting that impression as well. :)
20:37 < snap-l> rick_h_ should lead this one. :)
20:38 < snap-l> All those in favor? 
20:38 < snap-l> (No, I will not railroad rick_h_ into doing GBJ)
20:38 < snap-l> OK, any other discussion points on GBJ?
20:39 < snap-l> If not, I'd like to talk about 5-a-day
20:39 < snap-l> One thing that I've seen Ohio do is a 5-a-day Friday
20:39 < snap-l> Also of not, we're slowly losing our top-5 edge
20:39 < snap-l> and to Canada even
20:40 < snap-l> They're not even a real state. 
20:40  * brousch_ coughs
20:42 < rick_h_> I've never been to/done a bug jam so can't lead :P
20:43 < brousch_> hm, bunch of noobs
20:43 < rick_h_> were'nt we getting it close to wolfger so he could?
20:43 < snap-l> I'll ask him if he'll do it.
20:44 < jjesse> i don't think i'll ever have enough ram for the VMs i need to run
20:44 < jjesse> even if i had an extra dedicated server :(
20:44 < brousch_> jjesse they do seem to multiply to fill all available ram
20:45 < snap-l> So, any thoughts on a 5-a-day once a week via IRC?
20:45 < jjesse> totally
20:45 < brousch_> i haven't even done 5 total
20:45 < jjesse> snap-l: i'm up for trying to do a 5-a-day once a week on irc
20:45 < snap-l> Cool.
20:46 < snap-l> Any day better than others for folks, or should we just play it by ear?
20:46 < snap-l> Or would we want to work on Hug Days?
20:46 < jjesse> any day but tuesday works for me
20:46 < jjesse> are all hug days tuesdays?
20:46 < jjesse> or do they change days?
20:46 < snap-l> I thought they were thursdays
20:46 < snap-l> Last one was 1/29
20:46 < jjesse> oh even better
20:47 < snap-l> OK. Not sure about a time. I think we'll just play that by ear.
20:49 < snap-l> OK, any other business?
20:49 < jjesse> wife getting caught up on american idol from last week, why they are terrible
20:49 < snap-l> I'll never understand that damn program.
20:49 < jjesse> some chick from michigan was on that was awful
20:49  * brousch_ comforts jjesse
20:49 < jjesse> "i feel like my soul releases"
20:49 < jjesse> wow
20:49 < jjesse> thanks brousch_
20:51 < jjesse> i love it when people quit there jobs to try out for american idol cause they are so sure they are going to hollywood
20:55 < snap-l> I'm updating the wiki
20:56 < brousch_> i want to send out an invite to the grlug list, but i'm afraid a guy that is a total asshat will accept
20:56 < jjesse> so kick him off the list :)
20:56 < jjesse> brousch_ does the grlug ever meet?
20:56 < brousch_> i don't own the list
20:57 < brousch_> it meets very infrequently. there is no leadership
20:57 < brousch_> i've only been to 1 meeting
20:57 < brousch_> snap-l i need a good place to link to for information
20:57 < jjesse> brousch_ah
20:58 < snap-l> one sec.
20:58 < snap-l> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Meetings/GBJ-2009
20:58 < snap-l> (minus the https)
20:59 < brousch_> excellent
21:03 < snap-l> Any other topics? Questions?
21:06 < snap-l> If not, meeting adjourned.
21:07 < _stink_> just got here. nice job guys
21:07 < jjesse> meeting adjourned ;)
21:07 < jjesse> do we meet once a month?
21:07 < snap-l> It's on the calendar, but we've been lax in the past.
21:07 < snap-l> I think we should meet the next two months, as Penguicon is coming up.
</pre>
