{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Log of the IRC meeting on November 4th, 2007 ==

<pre>
19:00 <    greg-g> Welcome everyone
19:00 <   tjagoda> Hello!
19:01 <   tjagoda> Am I everyone?
19:01 <   tjagoda> If I am, that's depressing.
19:01 <    greg-g> meeting agenda is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Meetings
19:01 <    greg-g> hopefully not
19:02 <    greg-g> ping snap-l you around still?
19:02 <    greg-g> hrm
19:02 <    greg-g> anyone else just lurking?
19:03 <    greg-g> wolfger: ping
19:03 <    greg-g> he responded to the email that the time was good
19:04 <   wolfger> yo
19:04 <    greg-g> heya, meeting starting if you want to join
19:04 <    greg-g> well, tjagoda and wolfger you guys had been talking about more local stuff right?
19:04 <   wolfger> Oh. I forgot. Let me see if I can finish up what I'm doing real quick
19:04 <    greg-g> wolfger: no prob
19:05 <    greg-g> tjagoda: like the Troy thing
19:05 <   tjagoda> The penguicon thing, you mean?
19:05 <    greg-g> related to this: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3636112
19:06 <    greg-g> and the poll you started
19:06 <   tjagoda> ahhh, that.
19:06 <   tjagoda> Well
19:06 <   tjagoda> At this point I would call it a sort of in-reasearch project
19:06 <    greg-g> of course
19:06 <    greg-g> but I think that might be a good way to get some more activity going
19:07 <   tjagoda> I'm trying to guage the interest in the area
19:07 <    greg-g> yeah
19:07 <    greg-g> I just know how hard it is to get things going when the main way of communicating is via mailing list
19:07 <   tjagoda> People responded well to Troy, so I threw up the poll
19:08 <   tjagoda> I've yet to make any sort of decisions on wheter not not is should be a more physical manifestation of the LoCo, or a new user group in general
19:08 <    greg-g> gotcha
19:09 <    greg-g> well, I would be all for a sub-group of the LoCo to get going over there.  By sub-group I mean extension.  Just because driving time makes a huge difference on participation
19:09 <   tjagoda> Yes
19:10 <    greg-g> that would lend itself well to continuing the Packaging Jam throughout the state
19:10 <   tjagoda> I think at this point polling the interest is a far as we want to go.
19:10 <    greg-g> right
19:11 <    greg-g> and along those lines, I am trying to nail down what types of activities the group would want to participate in
19:11 <   tjagoda> Once we see if there is enough interst in the area, I think then we should go into more detail
19:11 <    snap-l> Troy is a good location, but I can't be bothered to log in. :)
19:11 <    greg-g> heh
19:11 <    greg-g> noted
19:12 <   tjagoda> I enjoy gaming
19:12 <    greg-g> well, since we don't have anyone from the west coast in here tonight, then I will just have to talk to them about it separately
19:12 <    greg-g> gaming is good
19:12 <   tjagoda> Quake Wars: Enemy Territory is releasing a Linux client
19:13 <    greg-g> could have a good old fashioned LAN party :)
19:13 <   tjagoda> My thoughts exactly
19:13 <   tjagoda> Bawls + Pizza + Computer Gaming = A good time for everybody.
19:13 <    greg-g> tjagoda: you live or just work in Troy?
19:13 <   tjagoda> Neither
19:14 <    greg-g> you drive by it?
19:14 <   tjagoda> I live near Richmond, I work in both Port Huron and Sterling Heights
19:14 <   tjagoda> it's a bit out of the way
19:14 <    greg-g> (I'm trying to remember the discussion on the forums)
19:15 <   wolfger> a poll was mentioned. I don't think I've seen it.
19:15 <    greg-g> would you like to work on setting up a LAN party sometime in the near-ish future? (I would help of course)
19:15 <    snap-l> I was thinking of meeting up sometime at Dave and Busters, but that can et a bit expensive.
19:15 <    snap-l> Or even Gameworks.
19:15 <   tjagoda> It was just thrown up recently (the poll)
19:15 <   tjagoda> Certainly
19:15 <    greg-g> wolfger: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=602943
19:16 <    greg-g> tjagoda: well, lets start throwing some ideas around for that on the mailing list
19:16 <   tjagoda> LAN party events.  got it.
19:16 <    greg-g> cool
19:16 <   wolfger> .oO( I need a laptop )
19:17 <    greg-g> well, next item I guess, LUG/SIG cooperation
19:17 <    greg-g> there are a TON here in South East Michigan (MUG, PUG, etc)
19:17 <    greg-g> and there is a bit of overlap with our members
19:18 <    greg-g> so I was wondering if we would like to do some "Ubuntu-themed" stuff with them, like give presentations or what events we can work with them on, etc
19:18 <    greg-g> does anyone have any ideas of the top of their heads?
19:18 <    greg-g> s/of/off
19:19 <  rick_h__> well, AACS is a leapord meeting this month
19:19 <  rick_h__> could always try to do a "what's new in ubuntu" talk with them
19:19 <    greg-g> thats a good idea
19:19 <  rick_h__> not a lot of linux use in the python group
19:19 <    greg-g> good to know
19:19 <  rick_h__> so not sure the interest is there
19:20 <    greg-g> I unfortunately can't attend many of the other group's meetings around here due to scheduling conflicts
19:20 <   wolfger> Same here.
19:20 <  rick_h__> Yea, I've only just started to get involved with AACS
19:21 <  rick_h__> but I'm active in MiPug and MUG as well as the SRT lightning talks
19:21 <   wolfger> I live out in the middle of nowhere, so any meeting has to include +2 hours of travel time
19:21 <   wolfger> give or take
19:22 <    greg-g> so, I guess what I can do is try to aggregate all of the other group's events and look for ones that the LoCo members might be interested in and send them to the mailing list
19:22 <    snap-l> I think that would work
19:22 <    greg-g> good deal
19:23 <    snap-l> I haven't attended any techie meetings in the area. :(
19:23 <  rick_h__> check out the srt google calendar
19:23              snap-l is a hermit.
19:23 <  rick_h__> they have a decent list of events
19:23 <    greg-g> rick_h__: yeah, I got that
19:23 <   wolfger> maybe a Google Calendar or something, with all Michigan group events on it?
19:23 <  rick_h__> well, with a lot of the AA area ones
19:23 <   wolfger> curse my slow typing, rick_h beat me to it :-)
19:24 <    greg-g> the srt calendar is pretty exhaustive or would it be beneficial for me to make another one?
19:25 <    greg-g> put an "is" at the front of that sentence
19:25 <    snap-l> I think it might be nice to have an additional one, since the SRT one has lots of ones I don't care about
19:25 <    snap-l> Like .NET
19:25 <    greg-g> snap-l: ok
19:25 <    snap-l> It's like a giant rump with pimples.
19:25 <    snap-l> ^hairy^
19:26 <    greg-g> geez
19:26 <   wolfger> lol
19:26 <   tjagoda> oh my
19:26 <    greg-g> cool, well, I will work on that
19:26 <    greg-g> so, since I wasn't sure if you were still here, do you want to give a quick 1-2 sentence recap of the packaging jam rick_h__ ?
19:27 <  rick_h__> well, it went well, slower than expect, but good stuff
19:27 <  rick_h__> we managed to actually get one guy's package done for him and show him how to do it
19:27 <   wolfger> Only group I'm currently making an effort to attend is Detroit Perl Mongers, which meets monthly. I know there's Linux geeks in there, but I'm just not seeing a good crossover between Ubuntu and Perl.
19:27 <  rick_h__> Everyone enjoyed themselves and I think I'll try to do it again in Jan
19:28 <    greg-g> rick_h__: well done
19:28 <    snap-l> rick_h__: It sounded quite interesting.
19:28 <    greg-g> I'll try and get some of that info on the Ubuntu wiki with links to the wiki you created
19:28 <  rick_h__> yea, it was very cool and went better than I expected in some ways
19:28 <    greg-g> right on
19:28 <  rick_h__> cool greg-g
19:28 <  rick_h__> and once I have some Jan dates I'll get the word out again
19:29              greg-g will need to read the log of this to see how many things he has to do
19:29 <    greg-g> cool
19:29 <    greg-g> next item: Penguicon
19:29 <   wolfger> woot
19:29 <    greg-g> from the discussion on the mailing list it looks to be going well thus far
19:30 <   tjagoda> Yes!
19:30 <    greg-g> is there anything that we need to do as a group (or me) right now?  I know it is a bit early still
19:30 <    snap-l> Discussion?
19:30 <   tjagoda> Well
19:31 <   tjagoda> I'd like to get some feedback on stuff to do for the room party
19:31 <   tjagoda> I know that the DVD is secured
19:31 <    greg-g> ok
19:31 <    snap-l> (yep... I got permission from the producers)
19:31 <   tjagoda> but I'd be interested in seeing if we could get some swag from canonical
19:31 <   tjagoda> ubuntu t-shirts or pens or something
19:31 <  rick_h__> well what is the plan? A social type thing, educational, demo?
19:32 <    greg-g> I'll send an email to Jono about that.  (the swag)
19:32 <    snap-l> Could we order Gutsy discs from Shipit?
19:32 <    greg-g> snap-l: yes, and if you are active in LP you get to order 10 instead of just 2 (or something)
19:32 <    snap-l> I know Heron is supposed to be out the next week.
19:32 <   tjagoda> Well, the room party would be social, with an emphasis on trying to get people to join up.
19:32 <    greg-g> snap-l: oh yeah, bad timing
19:32 <   tjagoda> There is some stuff on the wiki about it
19:32              tjagoda looks for it
19:33 <   wolfger> Well, it's bad timing, but better to have ShipIt discs than not.
19:33 <    greg-g> wolfger: agreed
19:33 <    snap-l> At the very least, though, we should have some discs of software.
19:33 <   tjagoda> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Projects/Penguicon
19:33 <    snap-l> After all, that's the main thrust of Ubuntu, next to community.
19:33 <   wolfger> Maybe some ShipIt and some home-burned Hardy RC1?
19:33 <    snap-l> I'll burn some Hary when we get closer.
19:33 <    snap-l> Hardy, I mean
19:33 <    greg-g> sounds good
19:34 <    snap-l> No harry's will be burned in the process.
19:34 <    snap-l> Unless they want to, in which case they should seek help.
19:34 <    greg-g> anything else for Penguicon right now?
19:34 <   tjagoda> You're covering the swag?
19:34 <    greg-g> I'll see what info I can get from Jono
19:34 <   wolfger> do we want to see which LUG is running the computer room and offer help?
19:35 <   tjagoda> I recieved an email about htat
19:35 <   tjagoda> that*
19:35 <    greg-g> if we are approved by then we might be able to get a pretty nice setup (big banner and stuff)
19:35 <    snap-l> Are we still planning a panel?
19:35 <   tjagoda> which I believe I sent over the list
19:35 <   wolfger> thing we need most is to convince Jono to accept his GoH invite
19:35 <    greg-g> GoH?
19:35 <   tjagoda> guest of honor
19:35 <    snap-l> Guest of Honor
19:35 <    greg-g> ah
19:35 <    greg-g> that would definately help us to get some swag :)
19:35 <    snap-l> Thing is, is he willing to come to the states for Penguicon?
19:36 <   wolfger> Jorge was working on him for that
19:36 <    greg-g> don't know, we just have to ask
19:36 <   wolfger> Penguicon would pick up his airfare
19:36 <   tjagoda> I would also like for us to present some sort of panel at Penguicon
19:36 <   tjagoda> I'm not sure what topic would be good, though.
19:36 <   tjagoda> Soemthing ubuntu-specific, naturally
19:36 <   wolfger> tjagoda: same here
19:36 <    greg-g> preview of Hardy (would be the obvious topic)
19:37 <   tjagoda> I like that idea
19:37 <   wolfger> Yeah
19:37 <   tjagoda> maybe we should make it more general to be an introduction to ubuntu with an emphasis on hardy?
19:37 <   tjagoda> Cover the community and goals and such?
19:37 <    snap-l> It's so obvious, it eluded even me. :)
19:37 <   wolfger> Can we get somebody with a Hardy laptop and a projector (does the hotel and/or con provide projectors?)
19:37 <    greg-g> tjagoda: yeah, I like that
19:37 <  rick_h__> greg-g: I know whiprush was saying Jono was very interested in the PC stuff
19:38 <  rick_h__> not committed, but very interested
19:38 <    greg-g> rick_h__: right on
19:38 <    snap-l> I'll be presenting, although I'm not sure who the schedule wrangler is
19:38 <    snap-l> I'd hate to be presenting at the same time as the panel
19:38 <    greg-g> snap-l: what is your topic going to be?
19:38 <    snap-l> Command Line
19:38 <   tjagoda> so are we concrete in wanting to do a panel, then?
19:38 <   tjagoda> an "Intro to Ubuntu" panel?
19:39 <    snap-l> Putting 30 years of UNIX productivity to work for you.
19:39 <    greg-g> that would be a good idea I think
19:39 <    greg-g> snap-l: nice
19:39 <    snap-l> Thanks,
19:39 <   tjagoda> another thing
19:39 <   wolfger> Intro to Kubuntu would be better ;-)
19:39 <   tjagoda> the computer lounge is run by a lug
19:39 <   tjagoda> GLLUG I believe
19:39 <   tjagoda> but they requested help
19:40 <   tjagoda> I /think/ I sent the mail out over the lists
19:40 <    snap-l> People to man it and equipment.
19:40 <    greg-g> seems another obvious thing we could help with
19:40 <   tjagoda> The people to help with would primarily be there to make sure nothing walked off
19:40 <   tjagoda> linux troubleshooting abilities arent required, but are a plus
19:40 <    greg-g> yeah, sounds good
19:41 <   wolfger> I'd be willing to do a shift
19:41 <   tjagoda> and in terms of equipment, they run a terminal server setup, so they really only need P2 or greater clients and monitors and input devices
19:41 <   TheWhip> poll! who is in there mom's basement?
19:41 <    greg-g> good deal
19:42 <   tjagoda> is there a transcript of this being recorded?
19:42 <    greg-g> I have one
19:42 <   tjagoda> or should I be writing this down?
19:42 <   tjagoda> Okay.
19:42 <    greg-g> I'll post it after
19:42 <   tjagoda> Lets see
19:42 <    greg-g> anything else for PC?
19:42 <    snap-l> Can't think of anything else.
19:43 <   tjagoda> Panel, Room Party, and Computer longue.  I think thats about it.  When it gets later on, I'll need to find some people to help cover the costs of the room.  It should be $89 plus another 10 or 20 if we want them to take the bed out of it
19:43 <    greg-g> tjagoda: ok
19:43 <   tjagoda> I'd say mark it as a subject for the next meeting
19:43 <   tjagoda> and so on and so forth until it gets here
19:43 <    greg-g> tjagoda: got it
19:43 <    greg-g> right
19:43 <   wolfger> room without bed costs more than room with bed. That just sounds odd.
19:44 <    snap-l> It's the cost of having someone move.
19:44 <   tjagoda> They have to send people in to take it out
19:44 <    greg-g> So, next item: New User/Member resources
19:44 <    greg-g> this was a spur of the moment idea I had
19:44 <    greg-g> something along the lines of resources for both new Ubuntu users in Michigan including groups to join in their area
19:45 <   tjagoda> I like that idea
19:45 <   tjagoda> A phonebook of sorts for linux interests?
19:45 <    greg-g> yeah
19:45 <   TheWhip> If there is not bed how would we Get it on?
19:45 <   tjagoda> I smell lamer. =(
19:45 <   TheWhip> oh yeah this is linux..
19:46 <   TheWhip> lamer..
19:46 <    snap-l> Thanks for playing.
19:46 <@   greg-g> anyways, moving on
19:47 <   tjagoda> righto
19:47 <@   greg-g> so, the phonebook idea can be worked on, but not a top priority
19:47 <   TheWhip> When is this party?
19:47 <    snap-l> Just curious, isn't there a scad of resources out there?
19:47 <    snap-l> Would this be adding something unique?
19:48 <    greg-g> snap-l: yeah, which is why I am not sure exactly what it will look like, except for something with a more local focus on it
19:48 <    snap-l> Ahhh.. .OK
19:48 <    greg-g> mainly, a list of regions and groups in the area
19:48 <    snap-l> That would be helpful
19:48 <    greg-g> or computer stores that support Linux, etc
19:49 <    snap-l> That would be short. :)
19:49 <    greg-g> yeah, so it'll be easy to make :)
19:49 <    snap-l> (Although I've gotten several folks at Microcenter / Best Buy who have recognized Linux)
19:49 <    greg-g> impressive
19:49              tjagoda gasps
19:50 <   tjagoda> Have they been fired for out of the box thinking yet? =(
19:50 <    greg-g> heh
19:50 <    snap-l> Nah... they're genuinely interested.
19:50 <    snap-l> Even if their corporate masters aren't.
19:50 <    greg-g> is there anything that we have missed or need to touch on again?
19:50 <    snap-l> Although I did purchase Linux software from Microcenter when they opened.
19:51 <    snap-l> Is there anything else happening in the area?
19:51 <    greg-g> Mako will be in the area tomorrow
19:51 <    greg-g> talking about the OLPC and such
19:52 <    greg-g> there was a mailing from rick_h__ about it
19:53 <  rick_h__> Yea, mako dinner at BWW in dearborn tomorrow 6pm
19:53 <  rick_h__> and the 13th is the MUG meeting with Ivan from OLPC
19:53 <  rick_h__> he's supposed to have hardware to look at as well
19:53 <    greg-g> oooooooh
19:53              tjagoda looks for the fireworks
19:53 <  rick_h__> yea, this is going to be the biggest meeting ever for us
19:54 <  rick_h__> A LOT more interest than usual
19:54 <    greg-g> I bet
19:54 <   wolfger> gotta run. Bye all.
19:54 <    greg-g> later
19:54 <    greg-g> meeting wise, I think we are done
19:55 <  rick_h__> cool
19:55 <   tjagoda> productivity is good!
</pre>
