{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Michał Zając, apply for inclusion in the Kubuntu Developer team.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Michał Zając
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~quintasan
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.kubuntu.org/MichalZajac
|}

== Who I am ==
My name is Michał and (as of January 2010) I am 17 years old. I'm in my second year in high school. On the internet I'm known as Quintasan. I'm interested in programming and skateboarding and japanese culture.

== My Kubuntu story ==
I have been using Kubuntu since Dapper, and I must say I was (and I'm still) satisfied with it. I was helping with translation to Polish first but soon I lost interst and I stopped doing it. After few months I was fed up with being a typical user and perspective of thousands of people using fruits of my labour was very tempting so somewhere in the middle of Januty development cycle I decided I should pay a visit to #kubuntu-devel and get some work. I found it very quickly :). I started with minor packaging jobs, the applied to Kubuntu Members but got rejected (1 month of contributions was not enough). I made my way to Ubuntu l10n Polish Team and started rocking on kubuntu-docs Polish translation. Then on April 2009 I got to Kubuntu Members and since June I'm a member of Kubuntu Ninjas. This leads me to applying for Kubuntu Developer now. I think there is still a lot of work awaiting for me and I can say for sure that I'm not getting anywhere near being bored with it (it's actually a lot of fun :).

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Revival (successful!) of Project Neon
* (not really Kubuntu but) Active member of kde-l18n-pl
* KDE package maintenance in general.
* KDE merges with Debian
* Packaging Plasma stuff for Universe

=== Packages I maintain ===

* Joint work with the whole crew of Project Neon - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~neon/|Code: "Project Neon" team]]</nowiki>
* Record It Now - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/recorditnow| "recorditnow" package: Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* Few plasma-widget-* in Universe
* <nowiki>[[http://gluon.gamingfreedom.org/|Gluon]]</nowiki> - still not ready for prime-time but I'm keeping up-to-date with upstream releases and asking them for opinions

=== Areas of work ===

* Packaging
* Community (@ at #ubuntu-pl, active support for users)
* Translating
* Daily builds

=== Things I could do better ===
My changelogs tended to be very sparse but I think this has improved over the time but it still could use some polishing. I could also polish my Description writing skill as this has always been my weak point. And while I'm on it (though I hate to admit it) it seems working with KDE needs some Python skill which I lack.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
* Maintenance of Project Neon
* Maintenance of KDE core packages
* More MOTU work
* LOTS of translations
* Tiriaging more bugs

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Shamelessly copied for Jonathan but I can't find anything there that I don't consider a bad thing in Kubuntu: <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org/news/timelord|Project Timelord]]</nowiki>

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
