{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Notes From the Michigan Team's Bug Jam ==

=== Introduction ===
The Michigan LoCo met on January 17th to collectively learn how to triage - and generally improve - bug reports.  The event was lead by bug triager extraordinaire Wolfger.  About 10 people showed up for the event to improve their skills.  In fact, one member drove 108 miles, one way, to attend this meeting!

More reports on the event:
* Blog post by <nowiki>[[http://mitechie.com/index.php?/archives/296-Its-the-people-that-make-the-LoCo.html|Rick]]</nowiki>
* Blog post by <nowiki>[[http://stompbox.typepad.com/blog/2008/01/its-all-about-t.html|Jorge]]</nowiki>

=== Resources Produced ===
Links:

* <nowiki>[[Bugs/HowToTriage|How To Triage]]</nowiki> covers essentially what Wolfger covered:

* Help in <nowiki>[[Bugs/FindRightPackage|finding the right package]]</nowiki> to assign:

* <nowiki>[[Bugs/Responses|Canned responses]]</nowiki> (to save loads of time):
** <nowiki>[[http://wolfger.wordpress.com/2007/12/16/canned-responses-a-great-and-a-terrible-thing/|Wolger's personal thoughts]]</nowiki> on canned responses (didn't actually present this site at the meeting)

* <nowiki>[[BugSquad/KnowledgeBase|Knowledge Base]]</nowiki>: What was presented plus more:

* Pre-Defined Searches:
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=datecreated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.importance%3Alist=UNDECIDED&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=on|Search for new and not associated with any package.]]</nowiki> Go try to confirm them and assign them to packages

** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=date_last_updated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=none&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_contact=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=&field.has_cve.used=&field.has_no_package.used=|Search for incomplete bugs which are not assigned to anybody.]]</nowiki> Make sure they're really still incomplete. If they are, and no comment in 30 days, mark as invalid.

* Want to put that Greasemonkey plugin into good use?
** This script adds clickable links to add predefined tags to bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~grossmei/scripts/lp_buttontags.user.js|lp_buttontags.user.js]]</nowiki>
** Check the list of <nowiki>[[Bugs/Tags|bug tags]]</nowiki> for ones to add.

** This script adds the user's karma and pertinent Launchpad memberships
** <nowiki>[[http://codebrowse.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-dev/ubuntu-gm-scripts/ubuntu/download/bryce%40blackwold-20080115010333-pcghgows71qj861g/lp_karma_suffix.user-20071017221940-8981nskt9y0ecgvi-1/lp_karma_suffix.user.js|lp_karma_suffix.user.js]]</nowiki>
** Handy for identifying developers commenting on bugs.

** All of these scripts plus one more (adding stock replies) are available <nowiki>[[http://codebrowse.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-dev/ubuntu-gm-scripts/ubuntu/files|here]]</nowiki>.
** You will notice that the lp_buttontags.user.js I supplied is newer.  I received it from bdmurray during the OpenOffice.org bug hug day and edited the list of tags for general use.

* Last but not least, <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~brian/graphs/|monitor the growing mountain of bugs.]]</nowiki>
