{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== MichaelADaly ===

Email: 
AIM: ubuntucat

YAHOO: mgcsfd

MSN: mgcsfd@optonline.net

IRC: mmmichael on irc.freenode.net

Ubuntu Forums: mmmichael

Location: Patchogue, Suffolk County, Long Island, New York

registered linux user # 434959

registered ubuntu user # 9458

...

----
CategoryHomepage 
----

'''Interests:''' My wife, my cats, my church, playing guitar, the Yankees, free software.

Computers are a hobby for me, I am not a programmer or an IT pro. I am a glazier by trade, but in my spare time I enjoy taking whatever pieces of computer hardware I can get for free and assembling them into working systems. Currently I mainly use Ubuntu 6.10, and I also use Kubuntu 7.04, Fluxbuntu, freebsd 6.2, Windows XP, and something I call "minibuntu"(a cli only install of Ubuntu edgy with fluxbox, thunar and abiword added). I would like to spend some time learning programming and python. Right now my main contribution to Ubuntu consists in giving CDs to friends and sharing advise on installing and using it.

'''Update, 2/09:'''

There is a day care center renting space from our church, and I noticed that they had five monitors but no computers. I rescued some machines from the town recycling facility and set up a server and four thin clients running Ubuntu Education Edition. The teachers were thrilled by the free hardware and impressed by the free software.
Now I'm using Ubuntu 8.10, Zenwalk, and Freebsd7.1.I took a look at windows 7 beta, but it's not for me. 
