{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Log of the November 18th, 2007 IRC meeting ==

<pre>
19:04 <   wolfger> so, you hear the good news about Penguicon?
19:04 <    greg-g> jono, mako, and digota
19:04 <   wolfger> yep
19:04 <    greg-g> and someone else right?
19:06 <   wolfger> yeah. Well, Jono and Mako are the big guests. DiBona, Jorge and... somebody whose name I don't recall are the "nifty" guests
19:06 <    greg-g> diBona (I NEVER get his name right! :)
19:06 <   wolfger> and of course ESR... he's there every year
19:07 <    greg-g> ping jcastro available for a quick loco meeting?
19:08 <    greg-g> rick_h_, evarlast, available for a quick meeting?
19:10 <   wolfger> Kyle Rankin. that's the 5th guest
19:11 <    greg-g> from Alias?
19:12 <    greg-g> oh, I see
19:12 <   wolfger> ystem administrator for Quinstreet, Inc., the current president of the North Bay Linux Users Group, and the author of Knoppix Hacks, Knoppix Pocket Reference and Linux Multimedia Hacks
19:12 <    greg-g> author of Ubuntu hack
19:12 <   wolfger> yeah, I heard he did that too, though that's not on his bio for the con
19:12 <    greg-g> found that one (wasn't sure if it was from the OSS or SciFi side)
19:12 <   wolfger> plus the xkcd guy reportedly digs Ubuntu, too
19:13 <    greg-g> yeah
19:13 <   wolfger> so it's going to be a very buntu-centric con
19:13 <    greg-g> sounds like it :)
19:15 <    greg-g> well...
19:16 <   wolfger> looks like a meeting of 2
19:16 <    greg-g> so, that was a good update of PenguiCon (Item 1 from agenda)
19:16 <    greg-g> :)
19:16 <   wolfger> :-)
19:16 <   wolfger> With Jono showing, we definitely need to hold a good LoCo party
19:16 <    greg-g> oh heck yeah
19:16 <    greg-g> and I think we will
19:16 <    greg-g> we'll have people from Ohio coming up probably, so it'll be a good tim
19:17 <    greg-g> e
19:17 <   wolfger> yeah. Is there any easy way to get the word out to other nearby LoCos?
19:17 <   wolfger> Ohio, Indiana, Illinois.... Ontario?
19:17 <    greg-g> well, if I could get an announcment email, I can get it to the team leads for other LoCos
19:17 <   wolfger> Maybe even Wisconsin would be interested
19:18 <   wolfger> The entire announcement (minus xkcd, who isn't a "tech" guest, per se) is here: http://community.livejournal.com/penguicon/51102.html
19:19 <    greg-g> cool
19:19 <    greg-g> I can get that out to other locos then
19:20 <   wolfger> good deal
19:20 <   wolfger> what else is on the agenda?
19:20 <    greg-g> well, real quick I wanted to ask you about what YOU thought about adding your contributions to DPOTD
19:20 <    greg-g> to the approval app
19:21 <    greg-g> I have been going back and forth in my head since I sent that email
19:21 <   wolfger> Heh. I'm not certain. It's somewhat extraneous, and I'm not sure what exactly they're looking for when judging an application.
19:21 <    greg-g> right
19:21 <   wolfger> I think it falls under the category of "promoting and contributing"
19:21 <    greg-g> I mean, obviously they want stuff that the TEAM has done
19:22 <   wolfger> but I'm also reluctant to toot my own horn
19:22 <    greg-g> so, even adding stuff like the forum contributions is kind of shady :)
19:22 <    greg-g> have you worked with anyone else from the team on DPOTD?
19:23 <   wolfger> from our team? No.
19:23 <    greg-g> that would have helped :(
19:23 <   wolfger> Most of the DPOTD guys are from other countries, actually.
19:23 <    greg-g> yeah
19:23 <   wolfger> I think I may be the token American ;-)
19:23 <    greg-g> haha, nice
19:24 <    greg-g> hmmm
19:24 <   wolfger> We could make it a group project to contribute articles to DPOTD
19:24 <    greg-g> that we could
19:25 <   wolfger> I've been thinking of doing a writeup myself
19:25 <    greg-g> well then, I think that is it
19:25 <    greg-g> so, it could go into the "roadmap" section
19:25 <   wolfger> cool
19:26 <    greg-g> alright, extra agenda item A) done
19:26 <   wolfger> next?
19:26 <    greg-g> there is going to be US LoCo Teams bug squad thing happening the week after thanksgiving
19:26 <    greg-g> learning how to report, triage, and fix/test fixes
19:27 <    greg-g> (well, less on the fix part, kind of out of scope)
19:27 <    greg-g> it is on our google calendar
19:27 <   wolfger> awesome
19:28 <   wolfger> I think I have the group calendar on my account
19:28 <    greg-g> cool
19:28 <    greg-g> that is pretty much all I had for that, just a "hey, this is happening" agenda item
19:28 <    greg-g> next... Approval Application
19:28 <   wolfger> I approve
19:29 <    greg-g> I was going to ask for more eyes on the application, but I assume you have been looking at it every now and then
19:29 <    greg-g> :) sweet
19:29 <   wolfger> I only gave it a once-over as I added my forum contributions to the list
19:30 <    greg-g> ahh, well, if you just want to proof read it that'd be cool
19:30 <   wolfger> I've also been making up for lost time on answering (or trying to) posts without replies yesterday and today
19:30 <   wolfger> will do
19:30 <    greg-g> well done
19:31 <    greg-g> questions?Comments?Suggestions?
19:32 <    greg-g> (thats the last agenda item)
19:32 <   wolfger> not seeing a link to the application page from the main page
19:32 <   wolfger> got a url handy?
19:33 <    greg-g> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/ApprovalApplication
19:34 <    greg-g> I didn't put a link on the main page at first because it was a "work in progress" but now I guess I should
19:34 <   wolfger> yeah
19:35 <    greg-g> well, I think that is it
19:35 <    greg-g> thanks for showing up wolfger 
19:35 <   wolfger> application page looks good.
19:36 <   wolfger> yw
19:36 <    greg-g> thanks
19:36 <   wolfger> hopefully we get more people next time. The IRC meetings are bi-weekly now?
19:36 <    greg-g> yep
19:36 <   wolfger> application says monthly, "transitioning to bi-weekly"
19:37 <    greg-g> well, I guess I should change that wording
19:37 <   wolfger> alright, I'm out of here, going to watch the shootout for the Wings game
19:37 <    greg-g> cool
19:37 <    greg-g> later
19:37 <    greg-g> have a good long break
</pre>
