{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I am interested in getting more involved in the development process of Ubuntu and am eager to help out where I can, whether it be with testing, filing bug reports, documentation, or developing software. I am particularly interested in the desktop experience of Linux, which is why I was attracted to Ubuntu. Other topics I'm intrigued by:
* Laptop support under Linux, see LaptopHardwareSupport, LaptopMission
* Providing all the applications migratory users need to suffice without other OSes
* AMD64 support
* Building a strong community and a good relationship between the developers and the users
* Mono and associated applications (I'm not concerned by any patent infringement, I think it's extremely unlikely that Microsoft would concern themselves with shutting Mono down.)
* GL effects (eye candy and bling) under X

I've been thinking a lot about some sort of a Unified Documentation Architecture, some way for users to easily access the Wikis, current bug reports, unofficial sources like the Ubuntu Guide, and the small mountain of information the forums have amassed. I've seen some discussion going on about this, but I'm willing to start/work on such a crucial project.

If anyone needs a guinea pig or someone to help out in one area or another let me know, I'm willing and ready!
