{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

I am a software developer in Fort Worth, Texas. I have been an avid user and advocate of open source software for over ten years. I am the author of the Apress book <nowiki>[[http://www.amazon.com/Definitive-Guide-SQLite/dp/1590596730/|Definitive Guide to SQLite]]</nowiki> and am currently collaborating with Symbian as a coauthor of a new book called "Inside the Symbian SQL Database."

I love relational databases, especially <nowiki>[[http://www.postgresql.org|PostgreSQL]]</nowiki> (I wrote the original <nowiki>[[http://www.postgresql.org/about/|About]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.postgresql.org/about/history|History pages]]</nowiki> on the PostgreSQL website). I have a special fondness for Unix operating systems (Linux, OpenBSD, and FreeBSD). Other technical loves include Apache and the Apache Portable Runtime (APR), the <nowiki>[[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/|Ruby]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org|Python]]</nowiki> scripting languages, and C/C++.

My hobbies include jogging, mountain biking, swimming, playing guitar and hunting in the Texas panhandle.

General Info:

  {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~michael-owens|My Launchpad Profile]]</nowiki>

  {*} Email: mikeowens at gmail.com

=== My Work ===

I work for <nowiki>[[http://www.c21bowman.com|Century 21 Mike Bowman]]</nowiki>. Our company's IT infrastructure in large part is made up of open source software. We have been using Ubuntu for about three years, and now use it for both in-house development and many of our core servers (web, email, security, file/print). In addition to Ubuntu, we use OpenBSD (routers/VPN/firewall), and FreeBSD (database server).

=== My Interests in Contributing to Ubuntu ===

I've recently discovered Launchpad, and I love it. I've convinced my boss to release a lot of our code that we use in house and we are in the process of putting it out there. One of the new projects we are working on uses a package called <nowiki>[[http://www.hyperrealm.com/libconfig/|libconfigduo]]</nowiki>, which  which currently is not included in either Debian or Ubuntu. As a result, I cannot get it to build in our PPA. I am interesting in joining the MOTU team to maintain this package in order to get it into Ubuntu.

I also like to write. I am interested in both contributing to Ubuntu documentation as well as doing some development as well. I use DocBook XML on a regular basis and love it. I am interested in helping with documentation that helps new users to Ubuntu and Linux in general.
 
