{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Log of the March 6, 2011 IRC meeting of the Ubuntu Michigan LoCo

<pre>
20:58 <    greg-g> alrighty, might as well get this thing officially started
20:58 <   rick_h_> http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/team/39/detail/
20:58 <    greg-g> Here's the agenda: http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/team/39/detail/
20:58 <   rick_h_> updated agenda
20:58 <    greg-g> hah
20:59 <    greg-g> welcome everyone
20:59 <    jjesse> is #1 everyone joins greg-g and me on #debian-us-mi?
20:59 <    greg-g> can I get a quick show of hands (o/) who is here?
20:59              jjesse raises hands
20:59 <  thurston> yo
20:59 <    snap-l> o/
20:59 <   brousch> i'm slightly here
21:00 <    greg-g> pokes _stink_ 
21:00 <    greg-g> alright, well, that's probably it.
21:00 <   brousch> rick_h_: you could at least hook me up with Apple commercials
21:00 <    jjesse> what ar we watching?
21:00 <    greg-g> so, Agenda item #1, Ubuntu Global Jam
21:00 <    greg-g> This will be the weekend of APril 1st.
21:01 <   brousch> you're joking?
21:01 <    greg-g> In the past we have done these at either SRT Solutions in Ann Arbor or the library in Macomb County
21:01 <    greg-g> brousch: har
21:01 <    greg-g> both locations seem to get the same number of individuals, roughly
21:02 <    snap-l> Can't do the library in Macomb anymore, as I'm not a resident anymore.
21:02 <    greg-g> snap-l: oh right
21:02 <    greg-g> well, SRT works for me, if jrwren can get it for us
21:02 <    snap-l> I'm OK with SRT as well
21:02 <   rick_h_> I'd say we hit up SRT, it's been a good location in the past
21:02              greg-g nods
21:02 <    greg-g> jrwren: I'll email you as well, but we're thinking SRT for April 2nd (Saturday) for an Ubuntu Global Jam
21:03 <    greg-g> oh yeah, I assume Saturday is the best day to do this ;)
21:03 <    snap-l> assumtion granted.
21:03 <   rick_h_> :(
21:03 <    greg-g> rick_h_: bad day for you?
21:03 <   rick_h_> yea, wife works one weekend a month, that day
21:03 <    greg-g> ahhhhhhhh
21:03 <   rick_h_> that's ok though
21:03 <   rick_h_> best for group and all
21:04 <   brousch> sunday
21:04 <   rick_h_> might be able to sneak out late, but not until post 2pm
21:04 <    snap-l> rick_h_: Actually, either day works for me.
21:04 <    greg-g> sundays can work as well, too
21:04 <    greg-g> rick_h_: is Sun better?
21:04 <   rick_h_> for me yes
21:04 <   rick_h_> if we're doing the usual noon-xxx something
21:05 <    greg-g> yeah
21:05 <    greg-g> alright, lets plan on Sunday April 3rd from noon - 5pm
21:05 <    snap-l> OK, sounds good
21:05 <   brousch> assuming srt will do sunday
21:05 <    greg-g> topics? Anyone want to lead a session on bug triaging or documentation or something?
21:05 <    greg-g> yeah
21:06 <   rick_h_> let's put out a call
21:06 <    greg-g> We'll be able to spend some time testing Natty in virtual machines
21:06 <   rick_h_> and I'll see if we can come up with something
21:06 <    greg-g> rick_h_: good idea
21:06 <    snap-l> Is Natty actually getting released around that time?
21:06 <   rick_h_> we've got a little bit of time to scrounge something up
21:06 <    greg-g> snap-l: a few weeks later
21:07 <    greg-g> s/few/couple/
21:07 <   rick_h_> Release Development Iteration 3
21:07 <    snap-l> OK, then we shall test it like the wind
21:07 <   rick_h_> is the 3/24
21:07 <    greg-g> cool. Settled. I'll send out a call for proposals for the UGJ :)
21:07 <  thurston> does running in a virtual server count?
21:07 <   rick_h_> sure, counts as some
21:07 <    snap-l> thurston: Everything counts
21:07 <    greg-g> thurston: it isn't the best for testing hardware issues, but for other bugs in software yeah
21:07 <   brousch> thurston: only if you can actually get it to work ;)
21:07 <  thurston> lol
21:07 <   rick_h_> and we'll talk someone into installing it since it'll be B1
21:08 <    greg-g> I'll probably be doing an install around then
21:08 <    snap-l> Is anyone else having fun with Google Calendar? It's acting like a complete pain for me
21:08 <   rick_h_> working here snap-l
21:08 <   brousch> i have a netbook that is expendable
21:08 <   brousch> actual hardware
21:08 <   brousch> could bring a dell latitude 600something too
21:08 <    greg-g> alright, agenda #2: Natty Release Party - April 21st
21:09 <    greg-g> er, I guess 28th
21:09 <   rick_h_> thurs
21:09 <   rick_h_> want to move it to weekend?
21:09 <    snap-l> I'd prefer weekend if possible
21:09 <    greg-g> yeah, I think a weekend night might be better
21:10 <   rick_h_> 30th keeps it in 11:04
21:10 <    greg-g> somewhere other than SRT :)
21:10 <   rick_h_> Sat
21:10 <   rick_h_> hah
21:10 <   brousch> If it's the 28th I'll combine it with the WMLUG over here on the west side
21:10 <    greg-g> brousch: ahh, yeah
21:10 <    greg-g> brousch: Sat is clear, though, right?
21:10 <    jjesse> brousch if you are doing something on the west side let me
21:10 <    jjesse> know
21:10 <   brousch> it meets on the last thrusday, so the 28th
21:11 <    greg-g> so, I felt that liberty street brewing, where we were last time, got a bit cramped
21:11 <   brousch> jjesse: np
21:11 <    greg-g> we might have to do a reservation if we'll be decently large again (~10-15 people)
21:11 <    snap-l> I think liberty can't contain us
21:12 <    greg-g> snap-l: yeah
21:12 <   brousch> heh
21:12 <    snap-l> What about that place in ypsi?
21:12 <    greg-g> Corner Brewery
21:12 <    greg-g> rick_h_: doesn't like it
21:12 <   rick_h_> hah
21:12 <   rick_h_> I'm fine with whatever
21:12 <    greg-g> he has to pick up his own plate ;)
21:12 <   rick_h_> gah!
21:13 <    snap-l> Um, we could do it at Penguicon
21:13 <    greg-g> and they don't really do reservations, so we would need to get there before it got busy
21:13 <    snap-l> since it's that freaking weekend. :)
21:13 <    greg-g> oh, crap, yeah
21:13 <    snap-l> I knew there was something in the way. :)
21:13 <   brousch> didn't you do that last year?
21:13 <    greg-g> yeah
21:13 <    greg-g> that's right
21:13 <    snap-l> Yeah, we did
21:14 <    snap-l> Weekend before is Easter
21:14 <    snap-l> Weekend after is May
21:14 <    greg-g> alright, who all is going to Penguicon?
21:14 <    snap-l> y
21:14 <   brousch> n
21:14 <    snap-l> rick_h_ is going as well
21:14 <   brousch> too scary
21:15 <    snap-l> even though he doesn't know it yet.
21:15 <   rick_h_> heh, looks like I might be going
21:15 <    snap-l> brousch: It's only scary if you let it be scary
21:15 <    greg-g> I will be presenting at a conference in Lansing that weekend :/
21:15 <    snap-l> greg-g: boo
21:15 <   brousch> i'll be watching greg-g drone on about licenses and libraries
21:15 <    greg-g> hehe
21:16 <    greg-g> well, it seemed like we were able to just meet up in the lobby bar for that and it worked out well
21:16 <    snap-l> So, do we make it a separate event?
21:16 <    snap-l> or combine with Penguicon?
21:16 <   rick_h_> I think we can combine
21:16 <   rick_h_> but make sure to pub it
21:16 <    snap-l> I vote combine w/ Penguicon
21:16 <   rick_h_> setup an official time/place
21:16 <    snap-l> yep
21:16 <    greg-g> yeah definitely
21:17 <   rick_h_> like we did last year
21:17 <    greg-g> I'm in Kansas City the next weekend anyways (sis's graduation)
21:17 <    greg-g> are we good with the bar again? or do we want a room?
21:17 <    snap-l> greg-g: Want me to organize?
21:17 <    greg-g> snap-l: that'd be great
21:17 <    greg-g> :)
21:17 <    snap-l> got it
21:18 <    greg-g> alright, lets skip #3 and go to #4, MUG Membership
21:19 <    greg-g> so, MUG Membership, this is where we, as a loco, can start a collection to cover the cost of joing MUG (http://www.mug.org) as a "company" and that way those who donated get a year's membership and we'll have a meeting sometime later one where we can do an Ubuntu theme'd talk
21:19 <    snap-l> I spoke with the board (since I'm now on the board) and we're good to go from MUG's perspective.
21:19 <    greg-g> awesome, did I recount it correctly?
21:19 <    jjesse> what benifits do we get as being a part of MUG?
21:19 <    snap-l> greg-g: Believe so
21:19 <   rick_h_> yea, let's start with "what is mug"
21:19 <   rick_h_> board member...
21:20 <    greg-g> haha, ok MUG, Michigan User Group, one of the oldest Unix/Linux user groups in Michigan, which meets around Detroit
21:20 <    snap-l> MUG is the Michigan Unix Users Group, a non-profit organization committed to mumble mumble Linux Unix.
21:20 <   rick_h_> lol
21:20 <    greg-g> haha
21:20 <   rick_h_> so they rent space and pay to bring in speakers from time to time
21:20 <    snap-l> Benefits of membership include
21:20 <    greg-g> they have monthly meetings, and a yearly membership is something like $25
21:20 <   rick_h_> to fund that, people pay a memberhsip fee for $35
21:20 <    snap-l> Warm feeling
21:20 <    snap-l> Mailing
21:21 <    snap-l> ability to vote
21:21 <   rick_h_> it's voluntary
21:21 <  thurston> free books
21:21 <    greg-g> yep, free book giveaways most meetings
21:21 <   brousch> damn, they charge to be a member?
21:21 <   brousch> must be the unix influence
21:21 <   rick_h_> they give you the chance to pay to be a member :)
21:21 <   rick_h_> great group and the meeting space costs $$
21:21 <    greg-g> I didn't pay the few few times I went
21:22 <   rick_h_> right, it's totally optional
21:22 <   rick_h_> now they have a group membership deal
21:22 <   rick_h_> you 'sponsor' a meeting
21:22 <    greg-g> yeah, just a fact of life, really, they aren't making out like bandits on us
21:22 <   rick_h_> and the group gets membership for it's peeps in exchance for the sponsorship
21:22 <    greg-g> and that's what we thought would be cool for the LoCo to do
21:22 <   rick_h_> so to sponsor a meeting it's $150?
21:23 <    greg-g> snap-l: ? is that right, i have forgotten
21:23 <  thurston> i already paid
21:23 <    snap-l> yep
21:23 <    snap-l> I did as well, but I'll pool in to a group sponsorship
21:23 <    greg-g> yeah
21:23 <   rick_h_> yea, it's turned a bit late for this at this point tbh
21:24 <    greg-g> unfortunately, yeah
21:24 <   rick_h_> was hoped to save $$ for the people, but I think the idea/support is still good
21:24              greg-g nods
21:24 <   rick_h_> and want to try to push it forward anyway
21:24 <    greg-g> I think we should
21:24 <    snap-l> ++
21:24 <    greg-g> now, has anyone raise money like this before?
21:24 <   rick_h_> so the idea would be we'd pool together the $150, sponsor the meeting, and then provide Ubuntu content for the meeting
21:24 <   rick_h_> kind of "loco takes over MUG" night
21:24 <    greg-g> :)
21:24 <   rick_h_> support the local LUG and do some good will and all that
21:25 <    snap-l> wfm
21:25 <   brousch> will that cause political issues? some people hate ubuntu
21:25 <   rick_h_> no, not in this group
21:25 <   rick_h_> it's 90% ubuntu anyway
21:25 <   rick_h_> we basically run half of it as it is
21:25 <    greg-g> yeah, we'll see what happens after Natty, but.. ;)
21:25 <   brousch> ok
21:25 <    greg-g> so, I guess I could take paypal donations?
21:26 <   brousch> must be the jcastro distortion field over there
21:26 <   rick_h_> greg-g: works for me
21:26 <   rick_h_> I'd say we send greg our 'donations' and then publisize how things stand
21:26 <    greg-g> I'll even let someone look at my paypal account in person to see the transaction history so you know I don't skim off the top :)
21:26 <   rick_h_> and shoot for a meeting post-natty perhaps
21:26              greg-g nods
21:26 <    snap-l> greg-g: how are you handling paypal fees, or are we looking for 16 folks?
21:27 <   rick_h_> well I'd just say allow donations
21:27 <    greg-g> I didn't think there were fees for something like this?
21:27 <   rick_h_> I mean, brousch probably doesn't need membership, but might be willing to toss over $5 :P
21:27 <   rick_h_> greg-g: I think it depends on if people use CC or not in their paypal setup
21:27 <   brousch> i'm supposed to spend $5 on free things
21:27 <   rick_h_> but it's pretty nomical
21:28 <    greg-g> brousch: :)
21:28 <   rick_h_> brousch: no, to get that warm and fuzzy feeling
21:28 <  thurston> person to person is supposed to be free
21:28 <    snap-l> greg-g: Yeah, it's something like 2% or something, iirc
21:28 <    greg-g> alright, I'll do that. I'll send out an email to the mailing list
21:28 <    snap-l> maybe not
21:28 <   rick_h_> awesome greg-g
21:28 <    snap-l> greg-g: Thank you. :)
21:28 <    greg-g> snap-l: ah, so $3 on $150, I can eat that
21:28 <   rick_h_> snap-l: can you check out the schedule with MUG going forward and see about us nabbing the June/July meeting then if we get the funds
21:29 <   rick_h_> then later we can bring up some ideas for topics/presenters
21:29 <   brousch> what day do they meet?
21:29 <    greg-g> yep
21:29 <   rick_h_> 2nd tues each month brousch
21:29 <    snap-l> rick_h_: Will do
21:30 <    greg-g> awesome, I think that one is done? snap-l is checking on dates, i'll send out the email/blog post
21:30 <   rick_h_> coolness
21:30 <    greg-g> alright
21:30 <    greg-g> $5, Penguicon
21:30 <    greg-g> other than the Release Party, we haven't seen anything regarding LoCo participation
21:31 <   rick_h_> has anyone heard from their tech chairs?
21:31 <   rick_h_> I've not heard anything, usually they're asking us to do some content
21:31 <    greg-g> I haven't, that I remember (or I forgot)
21:31 <    greg-g> yeah
21:31 <    snap-l> rick_h_: I haven't. Asked nullspace and waldo re: that
21:31 <   rick_h_> ok, well if they want anything they should come by sometime or get an email to the mailing list
21:32 <   rick_h_> I guess just wanted to bring it up and see if anyone else had heard anything
21:32 <    greg-g> yeah, good idea. but I guess we're good
21:32 <   rick_h_> +1
21:32 <    greg-g> alright, last item, #3: Ubuntu Hour
21:32 <    snap-l> We'll find out soon
21:33 <    greg-g> Ubuntu Hours are basically a get together, usually once a week, but it can be less often
21:33 <   rick_h_> we've always kind of had CHC as an unofficial ubuntu hour
21:33 <   rick_h_> we could try to tag team the naming if it gets us points
21:33 <   brousch> i've been considering one
21:33 <    greg-g> yeah, that is what I was thinking
21:33 <    greg-g> brousch: that'd be great
21:33 <   rick_h_> but we've been weekly at least 3-5 of us for couple years now
21:33 <    greg-g> brousch: is there a thing similar to Coffee House Coders that you would be competing with over there?
21:34 <   brousch> no
21:34 <    greg-g> good deal
21:34 <   brousch> no weekly meetings of anything, grpug is every other week
21:34 <   rick_h_> cool, let us know if you need a hand with anything then
21:35 <    greg-g> rick_h_: yeah, if you/others are ok with it, we could "co-sponsor" or "co-habitate" the meetings and get it on our list of things for when we have re-approval as a LoCo
21:35 <   rick_h_> greg-g: yea, I'll see what I can do about updating the CHC website and such with some ubuntu notes
21:35 <   rick_h_> figure something out
21:35 <   rick_h_> I don't run it, but will ping them on some rewording
21:35 <    greg-g> or I can just do a mailing to our team saying, "join others at CHC"
21:36 <    greg-g> no need to rename/rebrand/re-anything with CHC other than maybe say "Ubuntu peeps are espeically welcome"
21:36 <   rick_h_> yea, hadn't thought about the renewal side.
21:36 <   rick_h_> k, we'll figure it out
21:36 <   brousch> The Ubuntu Hour starring the Coffee House Coders
21:36 <    greg-g> cool, well, as a test, I'll send out an announcement for a co-located CHC/Ubuntu Hour for the next one and see who shows up
21:36 <    greg-g> :)
21:37 <   rick_h_> hah, I won't be at the next one, but snap-l can head that up
21:37 <    greg-g> rock
21:37 <   rick_h_> :P
21:37 <   rick_h_> crap, next two actually
21:37 <    greg-g> lame
21:37 <   rick_h_> go snap-l!
21:37 <   rick_h_> pycon :)
21:37 <    greg-g> ok, not so lame
21:37 <    greg-g> well, that was one efficient meeting, everyone!
21:38 <    greg-g> I'll send out the log/minutes tomorrow lunch-time (I have a gf committment now)
21:38 <    greg-g> unless someone wants to volunteer?
21:38 <   brousch> for your gf commitment?
21:38 <    greg-g> brousch: don't even think about it
21:38 <   brousch> :-O
21:39 <    greg-g> :P
21:39 <   rick_h_> come check out a live taping of Rick's Rants in 7min Release Development Iteration 3
21:39 <   rick_h_> oops
21:39 <    greg-g> linky?
21:39 <   rick_h_> http://www.ustream.tv/channel/lococast-net
21:39 <    greg-g> Thanks for coming everyone!
21:39 <    greg-g> now go listen to Rick Rant!
21:39 <    greg-g> (I'd still love a volunteer for the minutes/meeting log, so if you can, just ping me, I'll see it)
21:39 <    greg-g> (otherwise, I can do it)
21:40 <   brousch> i can do it
21:41 <    greg-g> brousch: thanks man
</pre>
