{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MichielSikkes ==

=== Profile ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Full name
| Michiel Sikkes
|-
| Date of birth
| July 19th, 1988
|-
| E-mail
| michiel at eyesopened dot nl
|-
| JID
| michiels@jabber.org
|-
| GPG
| B954EDF9
|}

=== History ===
I've been involved with GNU/Linux and GNOME for about three years now. I started developing, contribing and maintaining applications around the GNOME 2.0 hype and started to become more and more interested in open source software development.

My first package was beep-media-player which I packaged for Debian. I maintained it for about a year and stopped doing so some time ago after noticing upstream was not very active anymore and the upstream bugreports still flushed in.
http://packages.qa.debian.org/b/beep-media-player.html

After this I started writing little GNOME applications like Trash Applet which is now addopted in the GNOME Applets module. Soon I signed up with the GNOME foundation and obtained CVS access. Also, I wrote some patches for nautilus (higification of progress dialogs).

This July, there was a paper published written by Reinout v. Schouwen, Ronald Bultje (Gstreamer/Totem fame) and me published in the Dutch Linux Magazine about GNOME.

=== Involvements in Ubuntu ===
 Little (GNOME) translation activity::

https://launchpad.net/people/michiel/+translations

https://launchpad.net/people/michiel/+karma

 Update Notifier::
I've contribed and packaged update-notifier which is maintained by MichaelVogt.

Package: http://packages.ubuntu.com/hoary/gnome/update-notifier

 Update Manager::
Furthermore, I'm the "upstream" maintainer of Update Manager and co-maintainer of the update-manager package in Ubuntu which is also maintained by MichaelVogt.

Website: http://www.gnome.org/~michiels/projects/update-manager

Package: http://packages.ubuntu.com/hoary/gnome/update-manager

=== Future ===
If I become Ubuntu Member and/or maintainer I will get the chance to improve package management and updates in Ubuntu far easier than I can do now. Also, I might get some work out of MichaelVogts work and de-stress him a bit ;-)

My availability for Ubuntu will be part time because of office- and schoolwork. Estimated tim of 15 hours per week.

----
CategoryHomepage
