{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Log of the September 9th IRC meeting ==

<pre>
20:07 <    greg-g> well then, lets get it started and see if people show up
20:07 <   wolfger> item 1: Welcome
20:07 <    greg-g> Welcome to the first IRC meeting
20:08 <   wolfger> woot!
20:08 <    greg-g> alright, Projects
20:08 <    greg-g> are there any you are specifically interested in wolfger?
20:08 <   wolfger> I am interested in a packaging jam session.
20:09 <   wolfger> I'm not aware of what Software Freedom Day is, or when
20:09 <    greg-g> good deal, that one did seem like there was some interest from a lot of people
20:09 <    greg-g> http://softwarefreedomday.org/
20:10 <    greg-g> basically a day when OSS advocates set up booths/demos for free software alternatives
20:10 <   wolfger> I can't particiapate in SF day
20:10 <   wolfger> I'm busy from now to the 23rd
20:10 <    greg-g> welcome waldo323 
20:11 <    greg-g> wolfger: I understand, it didn't really have a good chance of flying for the LoCo team, we needed to think about this a long time ago
20:11 <   wolfger> ...and it's a bit early, but maybe we could discuss a LoCo presence at Penguicon (April Linux/SF con)
20:11 <    greg-g> so Jam session, rick was talking about hosting it at his house, have it be a Saturday thing, cook out, beer, packaging
20:11 <   wolfger> Cool. Where does Rick live?
20:12 <    greg-g> not sure
20:12 <  waldo323> greg-g: thanks
20:12 <   wolfger> Hi waldo323. Welcome aboard
20:12 <    greg-g> waldo323: we are doing the meeting now, have you had a chance to look at the agenda?
20:13 <  waldo323> briefly
20:13 <    greg-g> ok, well, I will ask you the same question (since there are only a few of us here) are there any projects that you are specifically interested in?
20:13 <    greg-g> whether that be leading or just lending a hand
20:14 <    Salgat> Is there  a list somewhere?
20:14 <    greg-g> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Meetings has a pretty good list of the projects that I could remember
20:15 <    Salgat> Whats the packaging jam session?
20:15 <    greg-g> so the packaging Jam session: I think for that one I just need to talk with rick about time/date details
20:16 <  waldo323> the jam sessions in general sounded interesting from what I read,
20:16 <    greg-g> basically we get together, physically, and work on a shared problem, in this case learning how to package software for ubuntu/debian
20:16 <    Salgat> Sounds interesting
20:16 <    greg-g> but for us, it will be at someone's house with food (BBQ) and beer, so learning plus a good time
20:17 <  waldo323> i'd like to go to that at least, I don't know what I could do to help besides with the food/drink
20:17 <   wolfger> ok, cool. That was going to be my question... if I needed to study how to package ahead of time, or if the jam would act as a hands on how-to
20:17 <  waldo323> i think its more of a share what you know event, so it helps if a few people know whats going on
20:17 <    greg-g> well, of course if you want to read up on it, that is fine, but all levels of experience would be welcome
20:18 <   wolfger> I've been meaning to read up on becoming a MotU, but.... haven't really applied myself to the idea yet.
20:18 <    greg-g> right, and I know there are some people in the area who were interested in a LoCo before who are active devels for Ubuntu, but this is kind of a crazy time for the (close to Gutsy), so I'm not sure if one of them could come
20:19 <    greg-g> so the jam session just needs us to talk with people who would be willing to host it and maybe know a bit about packaging.
20:19 <    greg-g> if rick can't host it anyone else able to supply a place?
20:19 <    greg-g> (but he did sound like he wanted to)
20:20 <   wolfger> I'd be willing to host one, but I live a bit far from the core of the group. 48047 zip code
20:20 <   wolfger> and, of course, I don't know what I'm doing yet
20:20 <    greg-g> right
20:21 <    greg-g> well, I will talk with rick more concretly about it and let the mailing list know
20:21 <    greg-g> On to Install Fest/Release Party
20:21 <    greg-g> this one seems like a no brainer, we should definitly do something
20:21 <   AaronVS> of course
20:22 <   AaronVS> im in on this one unless i have school
20:22 <   wolfger> absolutely
20:22 <   wolfger> so long as it doesn't conflict with Halloween
20:22 <  waldo323> heh
20:22 <    greg-g> it is middle of the month I think
20:22 <   AaronVS> TRICK OR TREAT
20:22 <   AaronVS> i need my candy
20:22 <    greg-g> around 17th or so
20:23              waldo323 hands gutsy cd with candy
20:23 <    greg-g> but, we could do a party on the day of, then set up an install fest within the next couple of days if we don't want to do it all at once
20:23 <   AaronVS> lol
20:23 <    greg-g> waldo323: now that would be sweet
20:23 <  waldo323> its actually a really good idea
20:23 <   wolfger> wait for SP1 to come out? :-D
20:23 <    greg-g> right, it just needs some literature to go along with it
20:23 <   wolfger> oh, wait.. that's how *other* OS's do it
20:24 <  waldo323> we probably can't get discs from ship it now soon enough though
20:24 <    greg-g> so, it looks like Oct. 18th is the release day, which is a.....
20:25 <    greg-g> Thursday, of course
20:25 <    greg-g> party that night then install the next?
20:26 <    greg-g> I am not sure where we could host it. There was talk of Arbor Networks letting us use one of their conference rooms for a meeting if we want, but they didn't say anything about an install fest
20:26 <    greg-g> we can ask of course
20:26 <    greg-g> so, I will do that
20:26 <   wolfger> an installfest is just... an interactive meeting
20:27 <   wolfger> best to ask, I suppose
20:27 <  waldo323> with guests hopefully
20:27 <    greg-g> right, especially the first one, we don't need to worry about being to advanced with an apt-cache or anything
20:27 <    greg-g> ok
20:27 <    greg-g> next
20:27 <    greg-g> is anyone interested in the COmputer Donation/Recycling idea?
20:28 <    greg-g> a very basic project page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Recycling
20:28 <   AaronVS> we should have a lan party or something play some Nexuiz
20:28 <    greg-g> personally, I love the ACCRC video and I wish there was something like that in this area
20:29 <    greg-g> well, this one is a long-term idea anyways, so no rush yet
20:29 <   wolfger> I think Donation/Recycling is an awesome idea, but I don't think I'm interested in going around wrangling donations. Be happy to help refurb
20:29 <    greg-g> and it is the one with the most time requirements for the people working on it
20:29 <    greg-g> wolfger: good deal
20:30 <    greg-g> I am actually going to try and see if I can somehow work this into my grad program at UMich, somehow
20:30 <   wolfger> AaronVS: Nexuiz?
20:31 <  waldo323> how exactly do the computers get donated? people drop them off at a designated location?
20:31 <    greg-g> well, those are all the ideas that I had listed out, anything I missed/you wanted to add?
20:31 <   AaronVS> its an FPS
20:31 <    greg-g> waldo323: yeah
20:31 <    greg-g> someone's house
20:31 <  waldo323> AaronVS: i'm not that great at Nexuiz  but itd be fun to get together with people to play
20:31 <    greg-g> I would be ok with it
20:32 <    greg-g> I would be ok with housing the computer donations
20:32 <   _stink_> just to throw this out there - Wayne State LUG is having machines trickle in every so often, so possibly we could pass them along if we run out of room in my very small office to store them
20:32 <    greg-g> _stink_: thanks
20:32 <    greg-g> _stink_: what does WSLUG do with them?
20:33 <  waldo323> _stink_: when does wayne state lug meet?
20:33 <   _stink_> so far we've consolidated parts into two machines... with lots of old video cards and network cards left over
20:33 <   _stink_> they're all PIII generation machines, though... before DDR ram
20:33 <    greg-g> _stink_: are those two machines used by the LUG in some way?
20:34 <   _stink_> one is earmarked as a server, the other is intended as a playground for the group, but we have had little interest in that
20:34 <    greg-g> gotcha
20:34 <   _stink_> waldo323: TBD, but twice a month, in the evenings... once on a wed., once on a tues. each month
20:34 <  waldo323> ok cool
20:34 <    greg-g> the goal for something like this is to get good contacts with universities/corps that go through computers fairly quick, so we get a fair number and relatively fast specs
20:35 <   _stink_> greg-g: -nod- we've looking into that sort of thing w/ Wayne, but they're very strict about sending old hardware out through their warehousing/sales thingy
20:35 <    greg-g> _stink_: right, most unis are
20:35 <  deuce868> yea, a lot of places have to auction or put that stuff through disposition
20:36 <  deuce868> personally it's something that would require a lot more time than I have for the group right now. If there are enough other people by all means
20:36 <    greg-g> which is why at some point registering a 501c(3) for us or separate "LoCo Doantion" group would be a good idea, to have an incentive to throw them our way
20:36 <  deuce868> but then you get into matters of supporting those machines and such so it's a long term commitment
20:37 <  deuce868> we're just going through that 5013c status with MUG
20:37 <   wolfger> greg-g: good thought. Easier to get donations when you're licensed not-for-profit
20:37 <   _stink_> greg-g: totally agreed from the corp. perspective. we've thought about that too, but student groups are far too fluid to make it work. the LoCo might do better
20:37 <  deuce868> it takes some paperwork and a few $$ to register, but not too bad
20:37 <    greg-g> deuce868: yeah
20:38 <    greg-g> well, how about anyone who is interested put your ideas on the wiki page about it.  we can work on this one slowly
20:38 <   wolfger> k
20:38 <    greg-g> I know I won't have a whole ton of time to work on it unless I get to somehow incorporate it with my classes (which is a slight possibility)
20:39 <   wolfger> are we going to set up the next meeting tonight, or via the list?
20:39 <  deuce868> probably be best to try via the list. There are a lot of missing peeps here
20:39 <    greg-g> deuce868: agreed
20:39 <  deuce868> then again we didn't get the schedule last time until we just decided and setit
20:40 <   wolfger> anything else to discuss tonight, or are we about done?
20:40 <    greg-g> right, but this time it will be "it is in 2 weeks, on the 27th, chime in for restuarant ideas"
20:40 <  deuce868> yea
20:40 <    greg-g> I think we are about done, unless anyone else has anything to add?
20:40 <  deuce868> heads up to everyone to come to MUG Tues. rpath guys coming in
20:41 <    greg-g> oh right, that does sound like an interesting talk
20:41 <  waldo323> yay
20:41 <  deuce868> very cool tech and one of the guys is a ex fedora dev I think
20:41 <  deuce868> so should be a high cool factor
20:41 <    greg-g> good deal
20:41 <    greg-g> well, if that is it....
20:41 <   wolfger> oh, I had something else....
20:41 <    greg-g> meeting adjou....
20:41 <   wolfger> I think I sent this to the list, but not sure
20:42 <   wolfger> Perl Mongers is having a "social" on the 18th. BBQ and beer will be served.
20:42 <  deuce868> saw that, many guys going? I'm not much of a perl guy
20:42 <   _stink_> i might go
20:42 <  waldo323> where is it?
20:42 <    greg-g> wolfger: link? more info?
20:43 <   wolfger> one sec... let me check the e-mail
20:43 <  deuce868> I hear their building is pretty interesting
20:43 <   wolfger> One ePrize Drive, Pleasant Ridge, MI 48069
20:44 <   wolfger> ePrize is a nice and generous host
20:44 <   wolfger> I went to the inaugural meeting. The house was packed, and they provided drinks and pizza for all
20:44 <    greg-g> good deal
20:44 <  waldo323> oh wow
20:44 <    greg-g> well, email the list with details
20:44 <    greg-g> anything else?
20:45 <   wolfger> RSVP if you plan to show
20:45 <   wolfger> Todd Chapman
20:45 <   wolfger> todd.chapman@eprize.com
20:45 <   wolfger> that's all I got
20:45 <    greg-g> alright
20:45 <    greg-g> meeting adjourned
20:45 <    greg-g> thanks for showing up everyone
</pre>
