{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Log of the January 13th, 2008 Meeting ==

<pre>
19:00 <    greg-g> Ok, here we go... MEETING START
19:00 <    greg-g> welcome everyone
19:00 <    greg-g> it should be a quick one tonight
19:00 <    greg-g> only a couple real agenda items, and they are mostly announcements
19:00 <    greg-g> but I figured we should have an official meeting just to keep the pattern going
19:01 <    greg-g> Meeting agenda is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Meetings/IRC-20080113
19:01 <    greg-g> First item: A Tri (maybe quad) LoCo meeting will be happening on January 22nd at 8pm EST, in #ubuntu-us-mi (here)
19:01              tjagoda celebrates
19:01 <    greg-g> it will include us (obviously), Ohio, and Chicago, with the possibilty of Minnesota showing up
19:02 <    greg-g> nothing we need to decide on now (except for which team/people we want to make fun of), just letting everyone know that there are opportunities for the sharing of rides, rooms, etc for conferences, code sprints, etc
19:02 <   tjagoda> Ohio!
19:03 <    greg-g> of course
19:03 <    greg-g> for completeness, here is the link to the announcement I made to the mailing list: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-mi/2008-January/000249.html
19:03              tjagoda has contributed 
19:03 <    greg-g> any questions/comments/considerations/objections to this topic?
19:04 < jhansonxi> Why Minnesota?  Aren't they a bit out of the area?
19:04 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: yes, but there was just some interest expressed by one of the members, and I don't like excluding people ;)
19:04 <    greg-g> (one of the members of the minnesota team that is)
19:05 < ColonelPa> they're midwesterners. Close enough in the grand scheme.
19:05 < jhansonxi> Same side of the planet and all.
19:05 <    greg-g> yeah, we have to stick together
19:05 <    greg-g> right
19:05 <    greg-g> ok, I think there isn't much more to say on that topic
19:05 < jhansonxi> I just want to clarify how local is "local"
19:05 <    greg-g> Agenda Item Number 2: Our Bug Jam is coming up! January 17th at Oakland University.
19:06 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: it is a whole bunch of "locals" :)
19:06 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: put them together and it gets big
19:06 <    greg-g> so, Bug Jam, this Thursday, Oakland University
19:06 <    greg-g> be there
19:06 <    greg-g> 6pm
19:06 < ColonelPa> I wish I could. Meh.
19:07 <    greg-g> weddings and births are the only two valid excuses
19:07 < ColonelPa> I'm being born.
19:07 <    greg-g> ok, have fun with that
19:07 < ColonelPa> will-do.
19:07 <    greg-g> for more information on the Bug Jam, see this page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Meetings/IRL-20080117
19:08 <    greg-g> I will try and put together some resources about triaging etc on that page (or linked to from that page) sometime before thursday
19:08 <    greg-g> if anyone else who has done any triaging wants to add links/info, you are more than welcome to help out
19:08 < jhansonxi> I won't make it to BJ.  I am already experienced at annoying developers on launchpad and it's not worth the 200mile drive from Alpena.  I would be there if I was working in Detroit this week.
19:09 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: that is understandable
19:09 <    greg-g> I'm sure some of us with be on IRC during the Jam, so you are more than welcome to pop in virtually
19:09 < ColonelPa> I just have a class. I'd love to learn to triage and whatnot
19:09 <    greg-g> s/with/will
19:09 < jhansonxi> I suggest that the flow of feedback from users -> distro -> upstream devs be covered.
19:09 < ColonelPa> greg-g: do you run the BJ?
19:09 <   wolfger> can we please not call it "the BJ"?
19:10 < ColonelPa> We must.
19:10 <    greg-g> ColonelPanic001: I think it will probably be wolfger and I
19:10 <   wolfger> woohoo!
19:10 <   wolfger> I'm not alone (sigh of relief)
19:10 <    greg-g> wolfger: not at all
19:10 < ColonelPa> we can talk later out of the meeting, but any chance of maybe having you guys (or someone) do a LUG meeting along the same lines sometime?
19:11 <    greg-g> ColonelPanic001: which LUG? (not that it really matters, just curious)
19:11 < ColonelPa> WSULUG
19:11 <    greg-g> cool
19:11 <   wolfger> it's certainly possible, providing I can make it to the LUG's meeting
19:11 < ColonelPa> just came to mind, brainstorming
19:11 <    greg-g> wolfger: do you by any chance have a projector?
19:11 <   wolfger> greg-g: no
19:12 <    greg-g> ok, I am still waiting for a response from Ken (our contact at OU) to reply about the availability of equipment
19:12              wolfger contemplates the ability to borrow one from Chrysler overnight...
19:13 <    greg-g> wolfger: let me know if that is a possibility, but I understand if it is not
19:13 <   wolfger> of course, that's not likely, and would require that I be working out of the Tech Center both the day of and the day after...
19:13 <    greg-g> any other updates from anyone?
19:13 < jhansonxi> Do you need a projector for the bug jam?
19:13 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: there is a good possibility that we will, I don't know the resources of Oakland's rooms
19:14 < jhansonxi> Isn't there an app for that?  Webex?  Everyone should have a laptop at least.
19:14 <    greg-g> jcastro: you still there? Do you happen to know about projector availability in the "OC" building?
19:14 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: yeah, or gobby (shared text editor)
19:15 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: that looks like you need to buy it (webex)?
19:15 < jhansonxi> I think theres a free trial or something like that.
19:16 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: ok, I'll look into it
19:16 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: thanks
19:16 <    greg-g> so, anything else from anyone (I told you it was going to be a short meeting)?
19:17 <   wolfger> yeah
19:17 < jhansonxi> So what other Ubuntu evangelism can the MI LoCo do?
19:17 <   wolfger> did we ever finalize the next PJ party?
19:17 <   wolfger> (Packaging Jam)
19:17 < jhansonxi> Free CDs?  Bake sales?  Kill off Fedora users who don't switch?
19:17 <   wolfger> oooh, I like that last suggestion
19:17 <    greg-g> wolfger: crap, I don't know exactly.  I should ping rick_h_ about it.  We had that poll on the forum (looks it up)
19:18 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: we will be having some events at Penguicon with free cds and whatever swag jcastro and Jono (the lead community person from Canonical) can bring us
19:19 <   wolfger> hey, if they need an address to ship the swag to....
19:19 <   wolfger> ;-)
19:19 < jhansonxi> I'm thinking of distributing a bunch of Penguicon flyers along my Alpena-Detroit route.  Maybe I can drop off a bunch of Ubuntu CDs also.
19:19 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: I would suggest getting your batch of cds from shipit.ubuntu.com
19:19 < jhansonxi> I'm thinking about book stores, college computer labs, and libraries.
19:19 < ColonelPa> is anyone here actually Penguicon staff or whatnot, by chance?
19:19 <    greg-g> I will be receiving a load for the penguicon event
19:20 <    greg-g> ColonelPanic001: not I
19:20 <    greg-g> DanielEads is I believe
19:21 <   wolfger> speaking of swag... did anybody here get those nifty Ubuntu computer tags that one of the other (MA?) LoCos did?
19:21 <    greg-g> wolfger: I have a lot
19:21 <    greg-g> I will be bringing them
19:21 < jhansonxi> Anyone testing Hardy?  Is it going to be released before or after Penguicon?
19:21 <    greg-g> and to the bug jam
19:21 <   wolfger> cool. I'd like to get some at the Bug Jam
19:21 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: one week after
19:22 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: and yes, I am, on my laptop
19:22 < ColonelPa> crappy
19:22 < ColonelPa> we'll have to demand Penguicon be delayed one week
19:22 <    greg-g> ColonelPanic001: I agree
19:22 < ColonelPa> that'd put it immediate *after* finals for me, rather than immediately before
19:22 < ColonelPa> doubly good.
19:22 <    greg-g> I will feel pretty lame handing out gutsy cds and saying "in a week you'll have about 300 megs of updates!"
19:22 < ColonelPa> hah
19:22 < ColonelPa> yes
19:23 < ColonelPa> including KDE4, I hear
19:23              ColonelPanic001 salivates
19:23 <    greg-g> heh
19:23 <    greg-g> well, anything else?
19:23 < jhansonxi> If I distribute them now with Penguicon flyers then Gutsy won't be all that bad.
19:23 < ColonelPa> nein
19:23 < jhansonxi> s/bad/old
19:23 <    greg-g> we can stick around and chat for a bit, but anything for the official meeting?
19:23 < ColonelPa> nein
19:23 <    greg-g> jhansonxi: that is a good idea
19:23 < jhansonxi> Any plans for a physical meet?
19:24 <    snap-l> Is the bug jam still on for Thursday?
19:24 <   wolfger> ColonelPanic001: why wait? Get KDE 4 now. There's a PPA for it
19:24 <    greg-g> kdubois: you just missed the meeting
19:24 <    greg-g> snap-l: yes
19:24 < ColonelPa> wolfger: PPA?
19:24 <   wolfger> snap-l: yes
19:24 <    snap-l> OK
19:24 <   kdubois> greg-g: i figured as much, i was away from the internet
19:24 <    greg-g> snap-l: I will be sending out a reminder via email in the next day
19:24 < ColonelPa> kdubois: away from the internet? What's that like? I've heard tales...
19:24 <    snap-l> Cool. Thanks!
19:24 <   wolfger> ColonelPanic001: Personal Package Archive
19:24 <    greg-g> ok....
19:24 <    greg-g> Meeting Adjourned
</pre>
