{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Michigan LoCo Team ReApproval Application ==

The Michigan LoCo team was started in June of 2007. Since then, the team was a leader in creating packaging jams, which have now morphed into Global Jams. We are active in the Metro Detroit area and have partnered with several user groups in the area to promote both Linux and Ubuntu. We are working to grow into other parts of the state, and have successfully branched out into the Western Michigan area. Several of our members have joined Canonical as employees since the formation of the group, which has helped to keep our level of excitement and engagement up.

Our team continues to draw in new membership; at last count our membership has 223 active members on Launchpad. We're extremely active and welcoming in IRC, and have been involved with newer initiatives like AskUbuntu and Ubuntu Hour.

Our group painlessly transferred leadership from Greg Grossmeier to Craig Maloney as of August, 2011. Greg moved out of state, so the LoCo held an vote via our regular IRC meeting to elect Craig.

=== Key Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| September 20, 2011
|-
| '''Team Contact'''
| Craig Maloney <craig@decafbad.net>
|-
| '''Membership'''
| 223 as of September 15th, 2011
|-
| '''Mailing List'''
| https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-us-mi
|-
| '''IRC'''
| #ubuntu-us-mi on Freenode
|-
| '''Loco Directory'''
| http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-michigan
|-
| '''Forum'''
| http://michigan.ubuntuforums.org/
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-michigan
|-
| '''Team Reports'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/TeamReports
|}

=== Roadmap ===

* '''Ohio Linuxfest participation'''
** Ohio Linuxfest is one of the largest gatherings of Linux users and developers, and draws a good mix of both beginners and veterans. The Ubuntu Michigan Loco partnered with the <nowiki>[[http://lococast.net||Lococast.net]]</nowiki> podcast to provide a booth at Ohio Linuxfest next to the Ubuntu Ohio loco. Michigan LoCo member Ben Rousch designed, and Michigan LoCo leader Craig Maloney printed up about 1,000 business cards for the event. We handed out over 300 business cards, and met a few people who were not yet aware of the Ubuntu Michigan loco.

** <nowiki>[[https://picasaweb.google.com/117777908934895049975/MiscellaneousDebris#5649295680087388498|Business Card]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/TeamReports/2011/09|Team Report for Ohio Linuxfest]]</nowiki>

* '''Penguicon Participation:'''
** Penguicon is a yearly convention for both Open Source Software and Science Fiction enthusiasts. We have had a presence at several Penguicons by hosting room parties and release parties, as well as providing content for presentations and panels. Most recently we participated in panels covering both Natty and Unity with members of the Michigan LoCo and Shawn Powers from Linux Journal. We are planning to have a presence again at Penguicon 2012.
  
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/TeamReports/2011/04|Our team report for Penguicon 2011]]</nowiki>

* '''Packaging  / Bug / Global Jams:'''
** Our group created the Packaging Jam concept, and have participated in every permutation of Packaging, Bug, and Global Jam throughout the years. We look forward to continuing to host and participate in future jams.

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/TeamReports/2011/09|Our team report for the latest global jam]]</nowiki>

* '''Release Party/Install Fest:'''
** We have been actively participating in every release party since Hardy Heron, and the West Michigan group has also been recently active with release parties. 
** We are currently in the planning stages for the 11.10 release party.
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-michigan/1326/detail/|West Michigan release party event]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-michigan/1323/detail/|Metro-Detroit release party event]]</nowiki>

* '''Continued Cooperation with Other Groups:'''
** We recently sponsored and created content for the <nowiki>[[Michigan Unix Users Group||http:--mug.org]]</nowiki> (MUG) on 6/14. Members of the Ubuntu Michigan Loco contributed $150 to help defray the costs of the meeting location for MUG. In return, our group "took over" the meeting by providing content related to Ubuntu.

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/TeamReports/2011/06|Team Reports and blog posts]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7VM_H6jHVDk&feature=colike|Video Mug.org meeting 20110614 Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
 
** We also partnered with Metro-Detroit Coffee House Coders to morph the group into Ubuntu Hour:Coffee House Coders. This group meets every Wednesday both to regularly code on projects, and to help other developers in the area. This in turn has sprouted other groups in West Michigan and Downriver to create their own more local groups.

** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-michigan/events|Upcoming events, including UH:CHC]]</nowiki>

** We remain committed to continue working closely with local groups.

* '''Continue Regular Meetings'''
** The Michigan Team has IRC meetings on the first Sunday of every month at 9pm.  These meetings help us to get our projects done in a timely manner. They also let new members see and hear about what projects are being worked on and what they can help with.

** <nowiki>[[Future Meetings|http:--loco.ubuntu.com-teams-ubuntu-michigan-meetings]]</nowiki>
 
* '''Member Podcast: Lococast.net'''
** Two members of the Michgan Loco Team (Rick Harding and Craig Maloney) created a podcast called <nowiki>[[http://lococast.net|Lococast.net]]</nowiki>. This podcast was initially geared towards loco teams, but has branched out more into general open source development and keeping projects going. We look to continue highlighting interesting links for developers, ways to keep engaged with your projects, and interesting books that we've read. We also interview members of the community, and have interviewed Paul Tagliamonte, Jacob Peddicord, System 76, Amber Graner, Greg Grossmeier, and Jason Smith.
 
=== Experience ===

* '''Communication Channels'''
** We have created and maintained our online presence and lines of communication, including a mailing list, a Michigan Team subforum, an IRC channel, and a wiki.

* '''Team Website'''
** The current web presence of the team is the Loco Directory where we keep track of planning projects and provide resources for new users.
*** http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-michigan
** We also maintain our wiki presence:
*** <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam|Wiki Homepage]]</nowiki>

* '''IRC Meetings'''
** Transitioned to monthly meetings on the first Sunday of the month.
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-michigan/meetings/|Future Meetings]]</nowiki>

* '''Natty Release Party'''
** The Natty Narwhal Release Party was on April 3rd 2011
** Team Report page with details and pictures: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/TeamReports/2011/04]]</nowiki>

* '''Global Jam'''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/TeamReports/2011/09|Our team report for the latest global jam]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki> which include previous jams.

* '''Ask Ubuntu'''
** We have several members active on Ask Ubuntu
*** Jorge Castro (<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/235/jorge-castro|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
*** Craig Maloney (<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/1614/craigm|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
*** Ben Rousch (<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/1654/brousch|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
*** Jay Wren (<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/1668/jay-silly-evarlast-wren|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
*** Scott Moser (<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/718/smoser?tab=activity|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
*** Jonathan Jesse (<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/152/jjesse|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)

* '''Contributions to Forum'''
** We still maintain a presence, albeit not as active as before, on the Ubuntu Forums.
** Members' Profile Pages:
** Greg Grossmeier (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=272542|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
** Rick Harding (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=6883|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
** Jay Wren (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=218893|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
** Matt Wrenn (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=48823|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
** Wolfger (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=362420|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
** Trevor Jagoda (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=397802|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)
** Ben Rousch (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=2948|Profile Page]]</nowiki>)

* '''Ubuntu Members'''
** Jorge Castro (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jorge|LaunchPad]]</nowiki>)
** Greg Grossmeier (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~greg.grossmeier|Launchpad]]</nowiki>)
** Jonathan Jesse  ([[https://launchpad.net/~jjesse]|Launchpad]])

* Canonical Employees
** Jorge Castro (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jorge|LaunchPad]]</nowiki>)
** Scott Moser (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~smoser|Launchpad]]</nowiki>)
** Jason Smith
