{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MicrosoftWirelessLaserMouse6000 ==

Microsoft Wireless Laser Mouse 6000 features a mouse wheel and two thumb buttons for forward/backward navigaion.

=== Setting Up Forward and Backward buttons for Firefox and Nautilus ===

==== Introduction ====

This is for Hardy users. This guide may help set up the forward/backward buttons to work in nautilus and firefox. It has been put together based on advice found elsewhere in the wiki and forum, and from my current settings.

==== Making backups ====

Make a backup of the xorg.conf and imwheelrc in case you ever need a fresh copy. Open up a terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal) and type:

<pre>
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
cp /etc/X11/imwheel/imwheelrc /etc/X11/imwheel/imwheelrc.backup
</pre>

==== edit the xorg.conf file ====

edit the file with admin priviledge using your favorite text editor or the ubuntu default, gedit.

<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>

Edit the mouse section to look like

<pre>
 Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option      	"Buttons" "7"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"ButtonMapping"		"1 2 3 6 7"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"false"
	Option		"Resolution"		"100"
EndSection }}}

Then save and exit.

==== Edit the imwheelrc ====

Open up the file in your favorite text editor.

{{{
sudo gedit /etc/X11/imwheel/imwheelrc
</pre>

and replace everything with

<pre>
".*"
None, Up, Alt_L|Left
None, Down, Alt_L|Right

"(null)"
None, Up, Alt_L|Left
None, Down, Alt_L|Rightt
</pre>

save and exit. At this point, press Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to log off and restart GNOME. Test out your forward backward buttons. If they don't work, you'll probably have to make a start up script like I did. But let's see if this is the case.

==== Debug Test ====

In the terminal, type

<pre>
exec imwheel -k -b "6 7" &
</pre>

Now test out your forward/backward buttons. If they work now, read on to make a startup script that will automatically enable forward/backward buttons.

If they don't, you'll have to search through the forums or wiki for a better answer. Sorry.

==== create a startup script ====

create a new file anywhere as long as you know where it is. The tutorial I used recommended /home/login/mouse so that's what I'll recommend here.

<pre>
sudo gedit /home/login/mouse
</pre>

and just paste the command from the debug section.

<pre>
exec imwheel -k -b "6 7" &
</pre>

save and exit. Now to make the file executable for all users, type in the console

<pre>
sudo chmod +x /home/login/mouse
</pre>

Now open up System->Preferences->Sessions and in the Startup Programs tab, click the add button. Name it whatever you like, put the path and file for the command ( i.e. /home/login/mouse ) and click ok. Make sure the Enabled checkbox is marked. Close the window and you're done.

Enjoy, this script will run at startup and your forward and backward buttons will always work in Firefox and Nautilus.

Alternatively, I suppose you could just put the "exec imwheel -k -b "6 7" &" as the command and bypass most of the steps in this section if you really wanted to. Making a file script was also part of the guide I had used.

=== Horizontal Tilt Scrolling ===

If anyone figures out how to enable horizontal tilt wheel scrolling, please post instructions.

=== References ===
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1438839#post1438839|Multi-Button Mouse configuration for dummies]]</nowiki>
