{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== About Me ==

I have been Ubuntu user since long but now becoming hard core user of Ubuntu. I am very much passionate about Ubuntu phone. It took me some time to get involved for contributing my self in Ubuntu & also understanding how open source model, community support works.I am currently active in Launchpad, Ubuntu touch core apps (Calculator) project.

== Contact Information ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name''':
| Mihir Soni
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mihirsoni]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| mihirsoni.123@gmail.com,mihirsoni@ubuntu.com
|-
| '''IRC''':
| mihir  <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|freenode]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Site''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.mihir.pro]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Jabber''' :
| mihirsoni.123 (Gtalk)
|}

=== Ubuntu Developer ===

'''Ubuntu Touch - Calculator Core Apps (2013-2014)'''
* Ubuntu Touch Core team developer. 
* Currently , helping to close all the high & critical bugs to make first release of touch calculator.
* More information about the project can be found <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-calculator-app|here]]</nowiki>.

'''Ubuntu Touch - Calendar Core Apps (2013-2014)'''
* Ubuntu Touch Core team developer for Calendar app now.
* After completing my tasks in calculator application , I have been moved to calendar app . It was difficult to switch but with the help of mentors , I could able to complete many tasks. I contributed myself for developing new functionalities which are critical.  
* More information about the project can be found <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-calendar-app|here]]</nowiki>.

'''Translation'''
* I have been contributing to translate Ubuntu core apps to my native & national languages.

 
== Future Goals ==
Continue to support the Ubuntu community actively in the following areas,

* '''Develop Ubuntu Software''' - Support Ubuntu touch projects & code for Ubuntu touch. :)
* Starting blog for Ubuntu Touch.

=== Testimonials ===
* Mihir has started to contribute to Ubuntu Touch in July and since then we collaborate every day to improve quality of this project. It's fun and rewarding work with him, and his availability makes it an ideal Ubuntu Member. I wholeheartedly recommend him for membership, it has been well deserved. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rpadovani]]</nowiki> 
* Mihir's contributions to the Ubuntu Touch calculator app are being really valuable. He dedicates a lot of time helping the project and he is a nice person to work with. His attention to details while testing changes others did also helps a lot improving the quality of the delivered work. I surely recommend him for Ubuntu membership, it would be a deserved recognition for his efforts. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:boiko]]</nowiki> 

* I have worked with Mihir from past 4 years, we started contributing to Ubuntu Touch at the same time (though currently I'm not as active as him). Mihir has done incredible job by utilising time from his busy schedule for Ubuntu Touch, for his hard work and contribution I think he deserves Ubuntu membership.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ravirdv]]</nowiki> 
* Mihir has been key for core apps such as Calculator and Calendar to be available on Ubuntu phones, tablets and desktops. He's been doing sustained quality contributions to the project, and collaborating with other community members to get our core apps in shape. I'd wholeheartedly recommend him for Membership! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dpm]]</nowiki> 