{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Mikaela ==

=== About me ===

I am interested a little of everything software-related and I have
vocational qualification in business information science. I have used
Ubuntu since 2008 (8.04) and I have also used other distributions such as
Fedora, Debian, Linux Mint Debian Edition and Antergos.

Currently I am waiting for my gender to be legally recognized before
continuing studying which should happen in winter. I am not fully sure
where I will apply, but I know that it won't be in Kotka. I wish I can go
to Helsinki, but I don't know what to study there yet.

I know a little of HTML which I use mostly with markdown and
also little of C# and VBA, which I have had courses about at vocational
college.

I have probably mostly been in Supybot (IRC-bot that multiple
Ubuntu bots use) IRC-support and I have helped a little with
administrating meetingology which means upgrading it to current
Limnoria (most popular Supybot-fork nowadays) and setting it to use
CertFP and SASL to identify to NickServ. Recently '''I left the project
<nowiki>[[https://mikaela.info/english/2015/03/25/leaving-bots-life.html|as I am unwanted there.]]</nowiki>'''

I am still on many channels and networks though helping when I can. At
freenode you can see the public channels that I am on with 
`/whois Mikaela`.

I have been contributing to Ubuntu community in IRC channel of
Ubuntu Youth (since 2010) and and I think I also have been at
IRC channels of Ubuntu Finland around the same time. I started
contributing at IRC channels of Ubuntu Women in June 2014.

At vocational college we have sometimes encountered Ubuntu in various tasks
and I have helped others with it when they have had issues. I also
have done 
<nowiki>[[http://linux.fi/w/index.php?title=Toiminnot%3AMuokkaukset&tagfilter=&contribs=user&target=Mkaysi&namespace=&year=2014&month=-1|some contributions]]</nowiki>
at Linux.fi wiki, which is freely editable Linux help site in
Finnish. I am also moderator on their forum.

I was also at Ubuntu (Finland) community meeting & 15.04 release party at
Happy Hacking Day even if I was mostly just listening

==== Other things ====

I have Aspergers syndrome (where special interest is computers and
mostly software (which probably is obivious from higher of this page))
and I am trans woman.

Oh, and it could probably also be said that I am planning to learn
Python (3) at some point, but that is probably long-time target.

==== Links ====

* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~mikaela
*** Reported bugs: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~mikaela/+reportedbugs
*** Limnoria etc. translations: https://translations.launchpad.net/~mikaela/+activity
* IRC: Mikaela
* Open HUB: https://www.openhub.net/accounts/Mikaela
* GitHub: https://github.com/Mikaela
*** Reported issues: https://github.com/issues?q=author:Mikaela%20is:issue
*** Opened pull requests: https://github.com/issues?q=author:Mikaela%20is:pr

=== Testimonials ===

<nowiki>[[CoevoetNicolas]]</nowiki> : Mikaela is always present and active as a good helper in supybot/limnoria's channels, i don't know her too much from ubuntu's channels, but i'm pretty sure her behaviour is the same. I support her membership.

<nowiki>[[AlanBell]]</nowiki> : Mikaela suggested some improvements to the way some of the IRC bots could be set up and then volunteered to get on and make it happen, which is great.

<nowiki>[[ValorieZimmerman]]</nowiki> : Mikaela is so dedicated to making IRC work for everyone. She is an inspiration to me almost daily as she contributes technically while dealing with online harassment far too often. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:valorie-zimmerman]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
