{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

http://launchpad.net/~mpontillo

I have been lurking in the Linux community since the mid-90s, when I first started poking around on Linux boxes set up by friends in the BBS community. Soon after that, I found a pile of 3.5" disks, spent a few days downloading images, and I was running Slackware. Later, my Linux box (running kernel 2.0.32) served as a NAT gateway which continually redialed our family's 56k modem in order to provide constant internet access to our LAN.

I fixed my first bug in Ubuntu (LP: Bug:332253) during a leave of absence from work, while taking care of our newborn daughter and one-year-old son. I have been an Ubuntu fan ever since I learned of its existence, and I hope to contribute more (as time permits).

=== Hacking ===
If I'm trying to figure out how some code works, I like to have <nowiki>[[http://ctags.sourceforge.net/|ctags]]</nowiki> handy. I have uploaded a <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Empontillo/%2Bjunk/bin/annotate/head%3A/profile.sh|profile]]</nowiki> to my Launchpad <nowiki>[[http://bazaar-vcs.org/|bzr]]</nowiki> repository with some handy functions for doing this. The use model is as follows:
* Run '''apt-get source <package>''' (after making an appropriate directory, to avoid cluttering the current directory)
* Run '''sudo apt-get build-dep <package>'''
* Change to the directory where the sources got extracted
* Run '''debian/rules build'''
* Run the '''genctags''' shell function. 
** This will attempt to detect the required library include paths (including system header files) and generate a tags file, which you can use with '''vim'''. (or another editor that supports ctags)

=== Notes ===
* Here are some notes I took on <nowiki>[[http://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=rW2nI_fF5eS1U-lX3oqOn6w|browser user agent strings]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=rW2nI_fF5eS1U-lX3oqOn6w&output=csv|csv format]]</nowiki>) and how they look on various OS/browser combinations.

----
CategoryHomepage
