{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm a Software developer and have been using Ubuntu since approx 2006, running a variety of versions on netbooks, laptops, desktops and virtual machines.  I run a blog with my brother - <nowiki>[[http://www.titaniumbunker.com|titaniumbunker.com]]</nowiki> where I record my experiences with technology and existence.

I'm currently working with the Ubuntu Quickly project, modifying it to work with Ebook based content, and have previously given a presentation at <nowiki>[[http://oggcamp.org/|OggCamp]]</nowiki> about content packaging.  

I'm using the experience to try ang get a better understanding of the python language, and the packaging infrastructure of Ubuntu.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| computa_mike
|-
| GTalk
| your gtalk address
|-
| Email
| computa_mike@hotmail.com
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://www.titaniumbunker.com]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

I'm currently looking at writing a template for the Quickly system, allowing book authors to use the main Ubuntu platform to write books that could be available

* through Ubuntu Software centre
* the author's own website
* in audio and ebook formats.
* in PDF
* in Multiple languages

I <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~computa-mike/+archive/synfigstage|wrote a tool]]</nowiki> for my brother to create scenes for animation using Synfig Studio, and was able to throw together a <nowiki>[[http://titaniumbunker.com/?p=2552|quick fix for the underlying problem]]</nowiki>.

I'm currently writing an ebook production system, and I would like to get that into the main Ubuntu product line.  I'm also interested in harnessing the Ubuntu One system, to provide reading resources comparable to Amazon. 

I'm currently writing a website based project for a future <nowiki>[[http://oggcamp.org/|OggCamp|]]</nowiki>

=== Future Goals ===
I hope to become more familiar with the underlying operating system, and hope to contribute more on mailing lists etc.
=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 
