{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== EeeBotu Specification ====
<nowiki>[[MikeRooney-EeeBotu|EeeBotu]]</nowiki> is a bot I wrote and temporarily hosted (hggdh now generously hosts it) to replace ubottu in #ubuntu-bugs-announce, which disappeared one day. It has a rough feature parity to the old bot, although I would like it to perform many more useful things which could benefit the Ubuntu community at large.

=== Bug Details ===
The one feature that <nowiki>[[MikeRooney-EeeBotu|EeeBotu]]</nowiki> is missing compared to the previous bot is the ability to detect bugs mentioned in chat and fetch and display their information. These would be in the form "[bB][uU][gG] #?[0-9]+". ubotu currently does this in #ubuntu-bugs and a few others, so if this ability were implemented it would be ideal to check for the existence of ubotu first. 

In the same spirit, we could also add support for other commonly-used BTS (like bugs.debian.org, etc).

=== Bug Subscriptions ===
The ability to set up subscriptions to bugs based on certain parameters could have widespread use. <nowiki>[[MikeRooney-EeeBotu|EeeBotu]]</nowiki> would allow a user or channel to subscribe to bug which match in a given way, based on regular expressions. It can also allow a specified string to be prepended to the message to clarify in the case of multiple subscriptions. There are many uses for this:

* Project channels (#pidgin, #evolution, #awn, ...) can subscribe to have incoming bugs in their package announced "live" in their channel, or specialised extensions of the #ubuntu-bugs could be set -- for example, #ubuntu-bugs-xorg, #ubuntu-bugs-evolution, etc. 
* Community members can subscribe specifically to packages of interest.
* A channel like #ubuntu-bugs can create regexs to match certain metabugs (commonly reported bugs) based on title and/or description, to try to catch such bugs more easily. In this case the string "LIKELY METABUG: " might be prepended.
* In order to make bug triaging easy for newcomers, a low-hanging fruit channel could be created which only announces bugs which are likely to be easy to triage or at least help out with. Such bugs might include those without a package, or bugs which are likely to require more standard information (driver bug without an attachment, for example), bugs with unacceptable language which need to be censored, et cetera.
* Probably uses for translators, hug days / bug jams, locos, and more that I haven't thought of.

EeeBotu could alternatively or additionally subscribe to recently touched bugs, and allow more useful subscriptions such as:
* Bugs recently marked with an Importance of High/Critical
* Recently milestoned or nominated bugs
* Bugs recently tagged with a tag of interest/relevance.
