{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact and Location ===

Email: <nowiki>[[mailto:psyberonezero@sbcglobal.net|Mike Sylvester]]</nowiki>

`AIM`: `PsyberOne`

`UbuntuForums`: `PsyberOneZero`

Location: Chicago, IL, USA

=== History with Ubuntu ===

I got my first taste of Ubuntu in October 2004, through Gnoppix. After using the LiveCD for about a week I formated my `ThinkPad` and ran Ubuntu
for about 3 months untill my `ThinkPad` got destroyed. I didn't get a replacement computer until August.  The first thing I did after building the
machine was put on Breezy AMD64. I joind the forums at that time tried to help, failing miserably sometimes (thank you to mlomker, King Bahamut, Bored2K, and Artificial Intelligence). Mid-October I was asked to join the MarketingTeam.

=== Current System ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ECN KN1 Extreme
|-
| AMD Athlon64 3000+ (overlclocked to 2.25Ghz)
|-
| 1GB (2x512MB) OCZ Performance DDR400
|-
| eVGA nVidia 6200 256MB PCI-E 16x (Dual Monitor)
|-
| 2x Plextor PX-712A SATA 16x DVD-RW
|-
| 120GB Western Digital SATA II
|-
| 200GB Western Digital SATA II
|}

=== Current Projects ===

MarketingTeam
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeamUbuntuDay|Ubuntu Day]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DIYMarketing|DIY Marketing]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeamBrainstorm|Brainstorm]]</nowiki>

=== All My Favorite Singers Have Stolen All of My Best Lines ===

 "Wear me like a locket around your throat, I'll weigh you down, I'll watch you choke, You look so good in blue, You look so good in blue"
  --'''Fall Out Boy''' - Nobody Puts Baby in the Corner

 "Well I can hardly wait, Until I get the sun and your lips both pressing on my skin, Well I can hardly wait, Until I feel that thrill in my heart that starts inside your eyes, And the song in my head that burns so good on my tongue"
  --'''Alkaline Trio''' - Blue Carolina

----
CategoryHomepage
