{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Hello World ==

Mike is a software engineer with over twenty five years of experience building software applications, for numerous operating systems. These include all versions of Microsoft Windows, UNIX, GNU/Linux and others that are no longer in wide use today. 

== Technical Skills ==

Mike has worked on projects both large and small in scope, involving all phases of the software life cycle.  He has particular interest in object-oriented design methodologies, including use case analysis, Unified Modeling Language and design patterns. 

After years of working with many varieties of technologies that have entered and exited the scene, including UNIX, BSD, Solaris, TOPS, RT-11, VMS, FORTRAN, COBOL, SNOBOL, ANSI C/C++ and Java. Mike is currently interested in Web Services, Content Management Systems, Wiki's, Java, Groovy, Apache2, Tom Cat, Struts, GNU/Linux and other Free Software Solutions.  

Mike also has experience with the following proprietary technologies: Visual Basic 3,4,5,6, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, COM+, GDI+, Direct X, Visual Studio (IDE) Windows 2000/03 Server, Internet Information Services (IIS), Active Directory and the .Net Framework.

== Software Freedom ==

Software Freedom is about you being able to do anything that you want with your
computers, without any restrictions placed on you by a third party. You should
always beware of any outside influence on your business, since it could put you
out of business.

Software Freedom includes your rights to run, copy, distribute, study and make
changes to the software that you use. Access to the source code is essential to
your software freedom, regardless of the level of your computer skills.

Software Freedom also protects you from treacherous programming practices that
are being employed by some proprietary software to collect information about
you. This information can turned over to marketing companies or law enforcement
agencies without your authorization.

   1. The freedom to run the program for any purpose. This means that you are free to use it at home or in your business without any restrictions.

   2. The freedom to study how the program works and adapt it to your needs. Which requires that every user has access to the source code.

   3. The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your neighbor. This includes the freedom to charge money for it or give it away.

   4. The freedom to improve the program, and release your improvements to the public.

Software Freedom also opens numerous opportunities to make living as a Computer Scientist, Software Engineer or Information Technologist, which is another very important freedom. 

== Education and Certifications ==

Mike has a Bachelor of Science Degree in Computer Science from the University of Bridgeport in Connecticut, and also is a Microsoft Certified System Engineer (MCSE) on Windows 2000.

== How to Find Mike: ==

Our home office is on the first floor of the Cape Royal Building in Cocoa Beach, Florida.  To help our business grow, we also attend numerous business networking events  in Orlando, Florida. We welcome any ideas that people may have to promote any Free Software Solution.

Mike organizes the Orlando Entrepreneur Meetup Group and you can find out where our meetings are by following this link: 

http://entrepreneur.meetup.com/2/

The Orlando Entrepreneurs is a powerful business network by building relationships that are based on trust with people in the Central Florida Business Community.

Our goal is to provide you with the following opportunities to help you grow your business both on the Internet and every where else that you do business:

1. Meet with other people from our business community face to face and eye to eye in real life.

2. Let us know what you can do for us on the Internet, over the phone and at real business networking events.

3. Establish connections with people from other cities that will help you build working relationships with them.

We want to reach out to people in other cities to establish a connection between our local business communities, so feel free to join our group where ever you are. Who knows since Orlando, Florida is a big travel destination, you may get a change to meet with in person if you happen to be in our neighborhood on business. 
Thank You

Mike Feravolo
 
http://Software-Freedom.com

http://DoLinuxNow.com

http://BusyBe.es

http://Wiki.GS
