{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Mike's Home Page, Using Linux of course!       Email: ===

* '''I am, what you would say, heavily into gnu/linux and have been since 1999... I have an autistic son who has slowed my use somewhat, but i guess my own autistic-y traits keep me at it.  To me, Windows is only useful as a Play Station... I use it to play games and that is all (that is all it is good for).  Everything else i do with linux, and i do it better.'''

* '''''If you are tired of your computer getting hit with viruses (virii), try a different operating system... i did, and now i have no problems, no worries:  I use the Linux Operating System.  NO worries.
Windows is just too much of a pain with virii, spy-ware, ad-ware, pop-up ads...etc.
What's worse... losing everything on your computer, or taking five minutes to try out a different way of doing things.  Try Linux.'''''

* '''If you are looking for a good linux distribution to start out with, try Ubuntu at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki>'''. I use it as my stable linux.
I recommend Ubuntu for anyone new to linux... it is VERY easy to use and is designed for users coming from the  ++Windows-- world.

* I currently live in Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

 So if you are into gnu/linux look me up and bring european beer (the kind that follows the bavarian brewing standards, cause it seems they don't use lactose in the brewing and i am lactose intolerant). Very much like Fuller's London Porter or Newcastle Brown Ale!
       I am married to a wonderful woman, and have two kids: my daughter (a terrific young lady) and my son (the autistic one:  what doesn't kill me will only make me stronger is my mantra with him).  We have a dog, Arthur, who will bark at you... yes, you... you know who you are! (No, sorry... Arthur died.  We miss him.)

* <nowiki>[[http://distrowatch.com/index.php?dataspan=4]]</nowiki> is a good site for finding information on different Linux distributions.

* My one favourite web-site is <nowiki>[[http://linuxhomepage.com/]]</nowiki> because it has links to good linux/bsd/operating system news sites.

----
Category Homepage
