{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am an active member of the Ubuntu Ireland LoCo. I started using Ubuntu in 2009 and I have been involved with the Ubuntu Ireland Team since then. I am a passionate advocate for Ubuntu and I help with the administration of the Irish LoCo as much as I can.  I am a very lucky family man who is also a mild mannered microbiologist by day.  On the 20^th^ of March 2013 I was accepted as an Ubuntu Member.  I consider this to be a great honour.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Mike O'Donohue
|-
| '''Email'''
| airurando@eircom.net
|-
| '''IRC'''
| airurando
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~airurando
|-
| '''Blog'''
| http://airurando.wordpress.com/
|-
| '''Twitter'''
| http://twitter.com/airurando
|}

=== Contributions ===

* I encouraged my daughter to enter the World Play Day Competition organised by the Ubuntu Women Project in 2010 and she won! 

* Have chaired many of the monthly IRC meetings for the Ubuntu Ireland Team since September 2010.

* Maintain the Ubuntu Ireland wiki, LoCo Team Portal entries, and the Ubuntu-ie.org website (now deprecated).

* Have helped the Irish LoCo with CD distribution efforts.

* Help maintain the Ubuntu Ireland social media streams (identi.ca, twitter, Facebook and Google+) 

* Co-organised and participated in many Irish Ubuntu Global Jam events since August 2010. 

* Co-organised many of the Ubuntu Ireland social events since 2010.

* Presented a Talk at OSSbarcamp (Sept 2010) entitled "Ubuntu in the Home"

* Attended 3DBarcamp at the University of Limerick in June 2011 where Ubuntu Ireland hosted a Geeknic and distributed Ubuntu CDs.

* Co-wrote the successful Ubuntu Ireland LoCo Team re-approval application in 2011.

* Have helped to expand the scope of Ubuntu Ireland LoCo activities to areas outside Dublin.
 
* Helped organise release parties in Dublin (Maverick, Natty, Oneiric and Precise). I attended all of these and also earlier release parties for Karmic and Lucid.

* Proposed and led the discussion concerning the Ubuntu Ireland Team Reboot in 2012.

* Manned an Ubuntu Table at Skycon'12.

* Established contact with a local Mens Shed and provided then with Ubuntu CDs/DVDs to help with their computer refurbishment programme.

* Promote Ubuntu and Open Source software wherever and whenever I get an opportunity.

=== Future Goals ===

* Continue to drive the reboot effort for the Ubuntu Ireland Team.

* Continue my ubuntu advocacy efforts and broaden the scope.

* Continue to attend and help organise Ubuntu Ireland Team events.

* Increase my involvement with the wider Ubuntu Community while maintaining my primary interests in Ubuntu advocacy and the improvement of LoCo Team activity.

* Recognising my limited technical skills I would hope to contribute to Quality testing once the bar for this has been sufficiently lowered. 

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

It has been great working with Mike in the Ubuntu Ireland LoCo, his enthusiasm to get involved and help people is great to see.  He's always trying to to get more people involved, be it locally at his kids school, at home with his family, getting his kids using Ubuntu or nationally in the loco. He's there at events handing out CDs telling people how to get involved,how easy it is to use. Mike is the kind of person you want in your loco, while he admit he's no developer, he brings to the loco what everyone needs that friendly face and eagerness to get involved.  He's taken on board more responsibility, from updating the mins from meetings, to creating events on the loco team portal and organising them and encouraging others to take part.  I fully support Mike in his quest to become an Ubuntu member. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:czajkowski]]</nowiki> 
Mike does not let his lack of technical prowess get in the way with his involvement in the Irish Loco. He severs as a great reminder to us the ubuntu is made for human beings. I think Mike is the main reason that the Irish loco is still around. He has been keeping us going and is lending the revival towards an active loco once again. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tdr112]]</nowiki> 
Andries van Tonder say: I only met Mike through circulars and news items. The impression I got is that he is an absolute advantage to the cause. Mike, keep it up. Thank you for the encouragement. 

moylan: I've met Mike at almost every ubuntu meetup in Dublin I've been too.  His enthusiasm for Ubuntu as user and not a developer is an advantage to get more non technical users involved.  He is forever stepping up to encourage others to get involved.  I really hope that he gets to be an Ubuntu member as he is one of the most active users on the irc and mailing list.

Barry: Mike has put in uncountable hours into the development of the Irish Loco team. He has Organized several events for the small local Irish team and has a driving force in the teams mailing list. Mike is dedicated and enthusiastic about Ubuntu project on every level. Mike is committed in sharing the Ubuntu project to all. This is why I strongly believe that Membership should be granted.

Mike has been a consistent and positive force in the Irish LoCo. He's driven and energetic to get things happening. He's also very friendly and nice to people, making efforts to talk to new people and make them feel welcome. He has consistantly promoted Ubuntu. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rorymcc]]</nowiki> 