{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In the Ubuntu LoCo Teams there are two types of teams:

** Unapproved Teams - these are teams that are in the process of getting started and have not yet been officially approved as an Ubuntu LoCo team.
** Approved Teams - an approved team is a team that is up and running, has each of the required resources in operation and the team is working well. When you  become an approved team, it will make your team eligible for certain benefits  such as marketing materials. An approved  team is also considered officially by the Ubuntu project. Approved teams will be re-assessed every two years to maintain their approved status.

The purpose behind this page is to explain what a team needs to do to move from the New Teams category to the Approved Teams category.

Are you ready?

The first question to ask is if you are ready for approval. When considering a team for approval the loco council will evaluate a team on the points below. The purpose of approval is to ensure that a team is an active resource for Ubuntu enthusiasts in the area and helps those interested contribute to the wider Ubuntu community. Here are the criteria that will be used in evaluating team applications:
** Resources (More details on setting these resources up can be found in LoCoTeamHowto - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto), please make sure the naming of you team and all ISO codes are correct as these will be checked during the process as we have guidelines in place already.

         These criteria may be considered differently depending on the connectivity of the LoCo's country (ie: for African continent we may expect less online activity than for the European)

*** Mailing list set up.
*** IRC channel on Freenode.
*** Team wiki pages set up on http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ or on your own website/wiki
*** Team launchpad setup using the naming convention standard.
** Experience
*** What have you done so far?
*** Have you done any advocacy, exhibitions, support or other activities?
*** We recommend you have done at  least three global activities (global jam participation, bug jam participation, launch party, release party, etc)
*** It is recommended to have at least eight months of activity prior to applying and detailed team reports, but depending on activity level a team may be better to wait at least a cycle to apply.
** Roadmap - Do you have an idea of what you want to achieve and which projects the group should work on?
** Future planned activities - having future events planned out in advance is solid evidence that a team is committed to staying active and building their team, this should be laid out in the road map and added to the LTP if at all possible.
** Membership - Do you have Ubuntu members in your group? Having an Ubuntu Member in your LoCO is not required but it shows wider Ubuntu involvement.

Note: All the factors will be weighed together to make a decision. There is no magic forumula of time or quantity of activities that will garauntee a team approval. The real concern for the Loco Council is that a team will stay active; they keys to that are:

** What has a team demonstrated the ability to do and what future plans do they have?
** Does the team have enough people actively taking a role in events and activities?
** Show the team is about Ubuntu and not a LUG

The process

To become an approved LoCo, the LoCo Council needs to have confidence that the team is up and running and performing well. This requires some evidence that the team has established various resources (website, mailing list, etc) and is actively working on different things and working well and is more than one person. To become approved the team needs to create a wiki page (more on this below) that outlines a number of things to do with the group, and has supporting evidence.

Writing your Approval and ReApproval Application wiki page

Your application to become an approved team largely rests in the application wiki page - you should call it <yourteam>ApprovalApplicationYEAR and place it in your LoCo  team's sub-pages for reapproval you should call it <yourteam>ReApprovalApplicationYEAR. You can see an example application at LoCoExampleApplication. This shows you the kind of structure that the page should form. Before we look at the sections, here are some important tips:
** Keep to the structure of that page - use the same section headings and structure of the LoCoExampleApplication page - this makes it easier to read the page for those of us who consider your application.
** Use lots of links and references - this is essential. In the Roadmap and Experience sections and elsewhere on the document, you should provide web links to websites, blogs, team reports mailing list archives and such that confirm the points you make on the application. So, as an example, if you have an activity listed in the Experience section, provide some web links to show what you did, or where it was discussed on the mailing list / IRC channel / forums.
** Be concise, detailed and clear - we don't want to see thousands of words - just list the key points clearly and concisely.

Two Year Review

The reapproval application should be similar to the approval application above, summarising the accomplishments of the past year and plans for the future year. Every month, LoCo contacts from four LoCos with approaching review dates will be contacted privately and asked to submit applications. If LoCos feel they are prepared for re-approval, they will add their application to the LoCoCouncilAgenda and the LoCo Council will vote on them.
