{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Name''': Ming Hua

'''Email''': minghua@rice.edu

'''Lauchpad Profile''': https://launchpad.net/people/minghua

I am a Chinese coming from mainland China.  I am a Ph.D. student with materials science major, studying in Rice University, Houston, USA.

=== Past Work ===

I have been an Ubuntu user since warty preview.  During the hoary and breezy development period I was mainly a testing user, reported bugs [18], helped a little on simplified Chinese translation and GCC transition [1,2].

During the dapper development I '''got involved with MOTU''', helped on some merges/syncs of universe packages (mainly science related) [3-8].  My main work is '''taking care of the SCIM input method related packages in dapper''', including testing and reporting bugs back into Debian [22-24], handling the merge/sync later in Ubuntu [9-14], fixing or helping to fix bugs [15-17], as well as writing up a wiki page for introduction of SCIM [20].  I also worked on a Chinese font package [19].

I am the Debian maintainer of a couple of SCIM related packages, and recently becoming co-maintainer of even more because of my involvement in Ubuntu [21].  I am the back-up coordinator of debian-installer's simplified Chinese (zh_CN) translation team [25], and am generally involved in the i18n/l10n of Chinese in Debian [26].

=== Work After Membership ===

I got Ubuntu memebership in January 2006, and since then I've been mostly '''doing bug triaging work'''.  I've also made a few patches and uploads for packages I use and am familiar with [27,28].  I also continued to work on SCIM related packages for some feature requests from CJK users [29].

=== Reference Links ===

===== Ubuntu bugs =====

'''GCC transition''':
1. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/17042|libmath++]]</nowiki>,
2. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/17976|arpack++]]</nowiki>

'''MOTU merge for dapper''':
(Merge) 3. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/grace6/+bug/4400|grace6]]</nowiki>;
(Sync) 4. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/grace/+bug/4403|grace]]</nowiki>,
5. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/libmath++/+bug/4087|libmath++]]</nowiki>,
6. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/lmodern/+bug/5151|lmodern]]</nowiki>,
7. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/stardict/+bug/5191|stardict]]</nowiki>, and
8. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/octave2.1/+bug/5372|octave2.1]]</nowiki>

'''SCIM related''':
(Fixed) 9. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/scim/+bug/4805|sync scim from Debian]]</nowiki>,
10. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/uim/+bug/5896|scim-uim crasher]]</nowiki>,
11. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/5888|scim-canna rebuild]]</nowiki>,
12. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/scim-pinyin/+bug/5893|scim-pinyin rebuild]]</nowiki>,
13. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/scim-chewing/+bug/5894|scim-chewing rebuild]]</nowiki>, and
14. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/scim-uim/+bug/5895|scim-uim rebuild]]</nowiki>;
(Reported/Commented/Helped) 15. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/acroread/+bug/2246|crash in acroread]]</nowiki>
16. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/qt-x11-free/+bug/6606|IM modules missing in Qt]]</nowiki>
17. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/qt-x11-free/+bug/28590|Qt programs crash in GNOME]]</nowiki>
29. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/scim-hangul/+bug/33763|im-switch support for scim-hangul]]</nowiki>

'''Miscellaneous''':
18. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/14507|Chinese in installer]]</nowiki>
19. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xfonts-wqy/+bug/5568|xfonts-wqy merge]]</nowiki>
27. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ttf-dejavu/+bug/34288|ttf-dejavu defoma hints fix]]</nowiki>
28. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/apt-proxy/+bug/4844|apt-proxy merge]]</nowiki>

===== Ubuntu wiki pages =====

20. <nowiki>[[InputMethods/SCIM]]</nowiki>

===== Debian work =====

'''Packages maintained and comaintained''':
21. <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=minghua@rice.edu|my Debian QA page]]</nowiki>

'''SCIM related bugs''':
(I reported these bugs and/or provided these patches partly for getting the new packages enter Ubuntu in time)
22. <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=335957|scim-m17n ABI transition]]</nowiki>,
23. <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=336270|scim-hangul ABI transition]]</nowiki>,
24. <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=336556|scim-chewing FTBFS]]</nowiki>

'''Chinese localization''':
25. <nowiki>[[http://people.debian.org/~bubulle/d-i/i18n-doc/languages.html|debian-installer translation]]</nowiki>,
26. <nowiki>[[http://alioth.debian.org/projects/chinese/|the Debian Alioth project for Chinese l10n work]]</nowiki>

=== Plans ===

My interests for future Ubuntu work are in two big categories: Chinese i18n/l10n (most importantly '''input method''' part) and science related packages (mainly '''computational physics/chemistry''' and '''LaTeX''').

Being the '''Debian maintainer of scim and other SCIM related packages''', I would like to keep them in good shape for Ubuntu.  I also plan to '''look after other SCIM related packages''' I don't maintain and '''communicate/collaborate with the Debian maintainers'''.  I would also like to try improving the SCIM packages in Ubuntu and making installing/using input method in Ubuntu easier and more user-friendly, although I most likely would need others' help for that goal.

I don't plan to do much translation work myself, but since I am involved in the Chinese l10n work in Debian, I believe I would help communication of the Debian Chinese community and Ubuntu Chinese community.  I also feel the different Chinese community (China mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong) should talk and work with each other a little more, and I hope I can do something to improve that.

Science related packages usually have a small user base, and even smaller developer/maintainer base.  So I feel it's quite important to get connected with the Debian science community.  JordanMantha created <nowiki>[[MOTUScience]]</nowiki> team to achieve exactly that, and I also think this is a wonderful opportunity to show that Ubuntu and Debian can collaborate well.  I would like to work in this team and '''help improving the quality of science-related packages''' in Ubuntu.

----
CategoryHomepage
