{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The IRC channel is home to a lot of our conversation. Also, ad-hoc meetings seem to take place at random times, which is great. However, structured meetings should also be planned to facilitate conversation. Below is a proposed agenda for our meeting on November 11, 2010, feel free to add, remove, change, etc.  

=== Scheduled Date and Time ===

Thursday, 11 November 2010.  8PM-9PM.  This is an ''online'' meeting, taking place in the #ubuntu-minnesota IRC channel on the Freenode network.

=== Agenda ===

1. Introductions
** Who's present?
** What would you like us to know about you?

2. Maverick Release Parties (share experiences from recent release events)
** Coordinators/Hosts
** Locations
** Times/Dates
** Type of Event
** Turnout
** How did it go?  
** Suggestions for the future

3. Future Plans for Outreach
** General Plans for Distribution
** Schools
** Legislators
** Public libraries
** Ubuntu Hours 
** Other suggestions/ideas/ongoing activities

4. Open Time
** Any additional ideas members would like to suggest or discuss

=== Minutes ===

==== Installfest Turnout ====
'''TIES''' installfest was successful and rather packed with people. Though, mostly folks from TCLUG rather than those of the Minnesota Ubuntu LoCo.

==== Outreach ====
Need more activity from those outside of St. Paul, such as planning events. Possible types of events include:

'''Installfests'''
*** Seems like people take installfests as of '''''getting''''' support rather than '''''giving''''' support.
'''Release parties''' (that aren't installfests)

'''Ubuntu Hour'''

*** Just one hour a day, on a regular basis
*** Can be weekly, monthly, or what you choose. As long it's on a regular schedule.
'''Topical presentations'''

'''Socializing'''

==== Mailing List ====
* Most active resource of our's currently; primarily used for questions and support.
* Could utilize it in other ways than we currently do.
* Perhaps encourage socialization on the mailing list as well. (though the forums could be used for such; however the forums are rather dead)
* If you don't like your inbox being flooded with messages from the mailing list, just choose the "Daily Digest" option for subscription.
