{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Want to talk with members of the Minnesota LoCo Team right now? ==

'''Join the IRC channel #ubuntu-us-mn on Freenode'''

=== Video Instructions ===
In case this text still confuses you, consider checking out the screencasts on the subject of IRC at http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/taxonomy/term/23.

=== Joining IRC ===
* Check out the Ubuntu help page on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|Internet Relay Chat]]</nowiki>. It should clear up most issues you have.
* You can find us on channel #ubuntu-us-mn on the irc.freenode.net server
* You can use a program such as <nowiki>[[http://irssi.org/|irssi]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.xchat.org/|XChat]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://pidgin.im/|pidgin]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://chatzilla.hacksrus.com/|ChatZilla]]</nowiki>, or go <nowiki>[[http://java.freenode.net//index.php?channel=ubuntu-us-mn|here]]</nowiki> for a browser-based solution.

=== Quick Instructions on how to setup Pidgin for IRC and joining our channel ===
Assuming Ubuntu is already installed:

 1. Click on '''Applications > Internet > Pidgin Instant Messenger'''
 2. The first time that it is opened, you will be asked to add an account.
 3. Click on the Add button, then in the Protocol menu select IRC.
 4. Type in your desired screen name for the chat session. You may leave everything else as it is.
 5. Click on save. If you see a checkbox that says "Enabled" above it, make sure that it is checked.
 6. You will be connected to the Ubuntu chat servers, from which you can have two options:
** You can join the generic Ubuntu channel, where hundreds of people are available willing to help you.
** To do this, type '''/join #ubuntu''' once you are connected.
** You may also join the Minnesota channel if you want more local support.
** For the Minnesota chat channel, type '''/join #ubuntu-us-mn''' once connected.
 7. Ask away!
