{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Team Info ==

The Ubuntu Minnesota Local Community Team advocates Open Source, Free Software, and the use of Ubuntu as well as connect users throughout the State of Minnesota. Our <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams|LoCo Team]]</nowiki> is on of the <nowiki>[[USTeams]]</nowiki>. 

The team operates in accordance to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/1.0.1|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.

{*} The Ubuntu Minnesota Team is not an officially <nowiki>[[/Toolbox/ApprovalApplication|approved]]</nowiki> team yet.

=== Goals ===

 1. Educate
** Teach the public about Ubuntu, Open Source, and Free Software
 1. Promote
** Advocate Ubuntu to groups like schools, libraries, families, businesses, etc.
 1. Supply
** Provide supplies and information for getting Ubuntu
 1. Support
** Offer local support for getting and using Ubuntu
 1. Connect
** Bridge connections between Ubuntu users

== Join Our Team ==

To become a member of the ''Ubuntu Minnesota Local Community Team'' please 
# Subscribe to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-mn|our mailing list]]</nowiki> where all meetings and work is coordinated. 
# Join <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-mn|our team on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
# Join <nowiki>[[http://minnesota.ubuntuforums.org/|our team forum]]</nowiki>
# Add yourself to the <nowiki>[[MinnesotaTeam/TeamList|TeamList]]</nowiki>
# Participate and Get Involved! 

''It is important that you are on the mailing list to stay in the loop.''

You should also join the #ubuntu-us-mn <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki> channel on <code>irc.freenode.net</code>.

== How you can help ==

If you would like to support the Ubuntu Minnesota Local Community Team, please consider: 
* <nowiki>[[/Donate|Donating]]</nowiki> to us. 
* Networking us. We have groups on several social networks: 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.orkut.com/Community.aspx?cmm=40347977|Orkut]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://hs.facebook.com/group.php?gid=18446071488|Facebook]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://groups.myspace.com/UbuntuMA|MySpace]]</nowiki>

Please feel free take on a member task below if you are willing. 

=== As a Member ===

If you would like to get involved with the team on any level: <<BR>>
You can help our team by:
* Getting involved with <nowiki>[[/Marketing|marketing]]</nowiki> efforts
* Helping to build the team using resources from the LoCoTeamKnowledgeBase
* Helping to write, edit, organize, and build these wiki pages
* Keeping our communications (mailing list, IRC channel, and forum) active
* Communicating between the mailing list, IRC channel, and forum
* Starting or assisting to run a <nowiki>[[/Projects|project]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[/Events|event]]</nowiki>
* Showing up to <nowiki>[[/Meetings|team meetings]]</nowiki>
* Sharing your <nowiki>[[/IdeaPool|ideas]]</nowiki> with us! 

Also see: ContributeToUbuntu

----
'''Sub-pages :''' CategoryLoCoTeams
