{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''You might be looking for the April 2008 <nowiki>[[MinnesotaTeam/Events/HardyHeronReleaseParty| Release Party]]</nowiki> instead'''

== Gutsy Release Party ==

=== What ===

This will be a social event to meet other Ubuntu users and people curious about Ubuntu from the state of Minnesota and check out the cool features of the new Ubuntu 7.10 release (due out Thursday).  We will have machines with "Gutsy Gibbon" already installed, and projected onto a big screen for everyone to explore and play around with.  It will also serve as an opportunity for people to find out what Ubuntu and free software in general is all about and ask questions of people already involved in the community.

=== When ===

Saturday, October 20^^th^^ 2007, 7:00 - 9:30 PM (organizers set up at 6:30).

=== Where ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.classroom.umn.edu/roomsearch/index.asp?op=details&rid=133|Room 3-111]]</nowiki> of the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building on the University of Minnesota campus.<<BR>>
200 Union St. SE, Minneapolis <nowiki>[[http://onestop.umn.edu/Maps/EE/CSci/|See Map]]</nowiki>

=== Who ===

The <nowiki>[[MinnesotaTeam|Ubuntu Minnesota Local Community Team]]</nowiki>, with the location sponsored by the <nowiki>[[http://acm.cs.umn.edu/|ACM student chapter at the U of M]]</nowiki>.

=== Questions? ===

Feel free to ask on <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-mn|our mailing list]]</nowiki>.
