{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The IRC channel is home to a lot of our conversation. Also, ad-hoc meetings seem to take place at random times, which is great. However, structured meetings should also be planned to facilitate conversation. Below is a proposed agenda for our first scheduled meeting, feel free to add, remove, change, etc.  

=== Scheduled Date and Time ===

Thursday, 20 September 2007. 4PM-6PM. This is an ''online'' meeting, taking place in the #ubuntu-minnesota IRC channel on the Freenode network.

TonyYarusso will make pretty logs available afterwards.

=== Agenda ===

1. Introductions
* Who's present?
* What would you like us to know about you?

2. Administrative stuff
* Is everyone on Launchpad?
* Is everyone also subscribed to the mailing list?
* Have you created a wiki page about yourself yet?
* Does your wiki page list skills, professional connections, and any other data that will give us information about what you may be able and willing to contribute, so that event coordinators can reference this easily?
* Mention Code of Conduct and signing
* The importance of a visible e-mail on LP (Bug #66105)
* Mention LP "Project"

3. Gutsy Release Party / First In-Person Meetup / Potential Installfest
** Volunteer coordinators
** Location
** Time/Date
** Structure
** Who to invite and through what channels
** Writing, distribution of a press release
** Creation of installation media
** Collaboration with TCLUG and others in the case of any installfests
** Tips and hints from experienced folks - Burgundavia & nixternal, Vorian?

4. Future plans (just touch on and take volunteers for looking into)
** General Plans for Distribution
** Craigslist free comps / SVDP / potential Free``Geek in the future - (mention Sunday)
** State Fair
** Ubuntu 8.04 plans - goes largely with the below, as well as point #3
** Schools
** Legislators
** Public libraries
** Discuss documents and other materials to be created for these - Gobby (Tony)
** Other suggestions?
** Make wiki pages for everything and get threads going on the mailing list!  Make them happen!

5. Incorporation / Financial notes
** Re: mailing list and IRC threads from other groups
** Pros/Cons
** Other notes for without it
** Recommendation
** Reporting & record keeping

6. Meeting Time
** Have a regular IRC meeting?? (monthly or semi-monthly preferred)
