{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hello, I'm Minseong Cho. I'm currently a organizer of <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam|Ubuntu Korean LoCo]]</nowiki>(2022.12.~). In 2019, I first used ZORIN OS which is linux distribution based on Ubuntu 16.04, on my old laptop. But at that time migration to new version of ZORIN OS was almost impossible. So I decided to use Ubuntu 18.04 LTS. Simultaneously, I got many tips from <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam|Ubuntu Korean LoCo]]</nowiki> like IME for Korean Language, managing APT packages. I started to participate Ubucon Asia 2022 as a Organizer in July, 2022. At that time, I visited Ubuntu Summit 2022 and got fully stimulated about Ubuntu. I'm also a student studying Software Science at <nowiki>[[https://engknou.knou.ac.kr/|Korea National Open University]]</nowiki>(2022.08.~), and had worked as a DevOps Engineer at <nowiki>[[https://www.metaflyer.co.kr/|Metaflyer]]</nowiki>(2022.10.~2023.03.). 

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email - Primary
| mldd.kor@gmail.com
|-
| Email - LoCo
| mscho@ubuntu-kr.org
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mscho7969/|mscho7969]]</nowiki>
|-
| Github
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/kkumtree/|kkumtree]]</nowiki>
|-
| Facebook
| <nowiki>[[https://www.fb.com/mscho7969/|mscho7969]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC - libera.chat
| mscho
|-
| Element - matrix.org
| mscho
|-
| Website
| https://blog.minseong.xyz/
|}

=== Contributions ===

My contributions are related to organizing & participating events with Ubuntu community in Republic of Korea

* Organizer/Presenter of LoCo Events (2022.07 ~ Current)
** Organizing <nowiki>[[https://2023.ubuntu-kr.org/en/ |Ubucon Korea 2023]]</nowiki> event.
** Venue and Safety, Social Media and Design
** Orgnizing & participation <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu-kr.org/t/topic/48634 |Ubuntu Translation Workshop in Seoul, May. 2023]]</nowiki> Event.  
** Help participants who use launchpad at the first time to contribute translation.  
** Organizing <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu-kr.org/t/topic/48634 |General Assembly of Ubuntu Korea Community in Mar. 2023]]</nowiki> Event.  
** Venue for reservation, invitation for session presenter
** Signatory for minutes of meetings(<nowiki>[[https://disclosures.ubuntu-kr.org/meetings/rga2023/ |MOM]]</nowiki>)
** Voting for Ubucon Asia 2023 Host City <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubucon-asia-2023-host-city-voting/34455 |Ubuntu Discourse]]</nowiki>
** Participation as a presenter at <nowiki>[[https://festa.io/events/3100 |DDD Daegu Feb. 2023]]</nowiki> event.
** tell story to audience about Ubuntu Summit 2022 & Ubucon Asia 2022 which i participated and encourage them to participate in our LoCo's planned events in March 2022 and May 2022. Specially, the event in May will be Ubuntu translation workshop, so tell them this activity will be a good chance to contribute FOSS ecosystem.
** Slide: <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B2vXD3V6UraDRrYElQ29s-OmpTIyJTsKWTrs6IT9E14/edit?usp=sharing |Google Docs]]</nowiki>
** Video: <nowiki>[[https://youtu.be/HIQNLITA6dE?t=13389 |Youtube]]</nowiki>
** Organizing <nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2022|Ubucon Asia 2022]]</nowiki> event. Listing some website links below for details.
** Getting Quotations for: souvenir, catering for dinner, rental radios, etc.
** Meeting notes thread: <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubucon-asia-2022-meeting-notes-thread/29715 |discourse]]</nowiki>
** Final Report: <nowiki>[[https://2022.ubucon.asia/news/2023-02-04-post-event-report/|Ubucon Asia Website]]</nowiki>
** Others that I participated: <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1n5x4NDSKwprZEu3vtDs4SHZ-d8X5k77MW2-csk_Xmow/edit?usp=sharing |Google Docs]]</nowiki>
** Organizing <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/39463|Ubuntu 23.10 Release Party + InstallFest in Busan]]</nowiki> Event.  
** In this event, we celebrate new release of Ubuntu with neighbors.  
** I introduced Multipass, a tool that facilitates the easy setup of cloud-style Ubuntu VM. He provided guidance on precautions to take when using Multipass.  
** Final Report: <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-23-10-release-party-installfest-in-busan-is-successfully-completed/40438|Ubuntu Discourse]]</nowiki>

* Contributing Documentations 
** <nowiki>[[https://multipass.run/ |Multipass]]</nowiki>
** I think, Multipass is one of simple way to launch Ubuntu VMs. But, It is not famous or mainstream solution in Korea. Before I introduce this solution to other Koreans, I think Documentation have to be well prepared. When I issued problem, Screenshots in tutorials are broken.
** <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/multipass-tutorial-linux/28394/2?u=mscho7969 |Discourse]]</nowiki>: As the documentation is based on Ubuntu discourse(Ubuntu Community Hub), I made reply in the thread, and tutorial is fixed.
** <nowiki>[[https://vanillaframework.io/|Vanilla Framework]]</nowiki>
** When I was trying in making my blog with Vanila framework, I was nervous because Document about git-modules something weird. Naturally, I spent lots of time to realize why error showed up. So, I think that notify other users right usages will be save their time. I made tiny, cute PR to the repository. 
** What is merged in <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/vanilla-framework/releases/tag/v3.11.1 |v3.11.1]]</nowiki>: Fix command for git submodule example (#4635) <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/vanilla-framework/pull/4635 |Github]]</nowiki>

=== Future Goals ===

* Continue to organize LoCo in South Korea.
** I found that I like the moment to meet who also like Ubuntu and talking.
** In 2023,
** General Meeting plan is already set up in March. 
** Translation Workshop is also planned in May.
** If there won't be other urgent things happened to me, I'll participate in the events.    
* Blogging Some Aricles about how to start swimming in Ubuntu.
** Like ibus, GPG Keys & so on, it is little struggling to dive into Ubuntu for Ubuntu korean beginners, I think.
** As my personal blog is built, so I will post continuously some tutorials based on my experience in Korean.  

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes". 
<nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/minseong-cho-membership-application/32726 | If you're not familiar with Ubuntu Wiki, You may leave your testimonial on discourse]]</nowiki>

As one of collegues who worked with UbuCon Asia 2022 together and Korean LoCo organizer, I would say Minseong is one of the most helpful and proactive organizer I've met last few years. It might be easy to bring some ideas for logistics for large scale events, but it's difficult to bring details and taking actions with proper plans. and thanks to Minseong's contribution, we could handle UCA22 logistics much smoother. With his enthusiasm on Ubuntu, he's already contributing on spreading Ubuntu and FOSS as one of Korean LoCo organizer. I'm very looking forward to see what he'll do in near future. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ybhan]]</nowiki> 
As one of my colleagues who worked with UbuCon Asia 2022 and as a LoCo organizer in Korea, I would say that Minsung is one of the kind organizers who is always fun and considerate of others. At the same time, he can be said to be an activist with excellent planning and execution skills, which is the driving force behind the success of UbuCon Asia 2022. Thanks to Minseong's contribution, the process was smoother. He is a Korean LoCo organizer with a passion for Ubuntu. I would like to congratulate him on his achievements and contributions to the community. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:sigmadream]]</nowiki> 
As one of my colleagues as a LoCo organizer in Korea, I would say that Minsung is one of the most enthusiastic organizers who helped me to onboard into Korean LoCo organizer group. When I visited UbuCon Asia 2022 as one of the participants, he showed his great planning and execution skills, making UbuCon Asia 2022 a huge success, as well as a great step forward for Korean LoCo team. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:hothead-jung]]</nowiki> 