{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Get Involved ==

The Mir display server project is a true collaborative Open Source project. For us to build an awesome user experience scaling across and dynamically adapting to different form factors we need a variety of skills and contributors who can bring them. This section of the our wiki homepage explains how you can get involved.

=== How Can I Help? ===

If you are not sure how to help, use our handy guide below:

==== If you are a fairly technical person ====

You might want to contribute to <nowiki>[[http://unity.ubuntu.com/mir|Hacking]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://unity.ubuntu.com/mir|Testing]]</nowiki> (while Testing doesn't have to be technical, a deeper-dive of testing is really helpful).

==== If you like breaking things ====

Mir adheres to a test-driven development process and code contributions in particular have to be accompanied by tests that prove that a fix or a feature really does what it should. Over time, as Mir evolves, the testing framework needs to become more and more sophisticated, too. In addition, we are planning to rely on <nowiki>[[Unity-QA-Autopilot|Autopilot]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://cukes.info/|Cucumber]]</nowiki> to implement fullstack and behavioral testing and we would love to see contributions to either the test suites or the underlying infrastructure to wire things up with Mir.

==== If you like design ====

You might want to help with <nowiki>[[Unity|Unity]]</nowiki> - this includes not only discussing designs, but we would also love to receive thoughts, ideas and feedback on our ideas.

== Where Do I Begin? ==

=== Get a Development Environment Set Up ===

You should first install the different parts of the project so you can contribute.

To read out to do this, see <nowiki>[[http://unity.ubuntu.com/mir|these instructions]]</nowiki>.

=== Choose a Place to Help ===

Now you have an idea of how to help, click the sections above to find out more. You should also join our communication channels:

* '''Mailing List''' - our mailing list is where we have email discussions. Everyone is welcome to join, just go to https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Mir-devel, join the team and then join the mailing list. 
* '''IRC''' - we also have a live chat IRC channel in `#ubuntu-mir` on the freenode IRC network.
