{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for acl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/sourcepackage]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the server-lucid-lucid-seeds specification.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=acl|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=acl|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid or daemons.
** No network activity.
** It does not directly process binary or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:acl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/acl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/acl|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=acl|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?28185|28185]]</nowiki>
** No special hardware is required.
** There is an upstream testsuite but it is not enabled in the build.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** autoconf, automake, debhelper, gettext, libtool, libattr1-dev
** All are in main.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** acl is a simple package that is maintained in debian, however the Ubuntu Server Team will be responsible for it in Ubuntu.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/496598]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
