{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for beautifulsoup ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/b/beautiful]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the canonical-application-support specification.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=beautifulsoup|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=beautifulsoup|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid or any daemons.
** No network activity.
** It directly (not through a library) process structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:beautifulsoup|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=530408|530408]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/b/beautifulsoup.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/beautifulsoup|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/beautifulsoup/+bug/394494|394494]]</nowiki>
** This package doesnt deal with any special hardware.
** There is an testsuite upstream but it is not enabled.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with no patch system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, python, python-dev, python-support, 
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** python-beautifulsoup is a relatively simple package that will be maintained by the Ubuntu Server Team.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/492560]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
