{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for bochsbios ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/b/bochs]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependecy of qemu-kvm.
0. ''Security:''
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=bochs|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root, no daemons.
** No network activity.
** It directly (not through a library) processes binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:bochs|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/b/bochs.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://bochs.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://bochs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/topper.pl?name=Report+a+Bug&url=http://sourceforge.net/tracker/qmrkgroup_ideq12580ampatideq112580|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
** This package does not deal with any special hardware.
** The does not seem to be a test suite.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and  <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with quilt packaging system
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (in main)
** quilt (in main)
** libz-dev  (in main)
** libncurses5-dev (in main)
** libreadline5-dev (in main)
** libaa1-dev ( in main)
** libsvga1-dev [i386 amd64]
** libx11-dev (in main)
** libxpm-dev (in main)
** libice-dev (in main)
** libsm-dev (in main)
** libsdl1.2-dev (in main)
** libwxgtk2.6-dev (in universe)
** libgtk2.0-dev (in main)
** libasound2-dev (in main)
** iasl (in main)
** bcc (in main)
** bin86 (in main)
** docbook-utils (in main)
** gcc-multilib (in main)
** vgabios (in universe)
0. ''Maintenance:''
** The package maintenance is done in debian. However since this is a dependency of kvm-qemu then in my opinnon the bochbios should be split out from bochs.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/422268]]</nowiki>
