{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/cssutils]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Necessary for Elisa package (which is in main too)
 0. ''Security:''
** No current <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=cssutils|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No current <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=cssutils|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons running.
** The software doesn't handle any incoming or outgoing network traffic.
** It does not directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** Source code review performed; nothing alarming found
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package doesn't ask any debconf question.
** Not yet in Debian upstream. See <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/462879|ITP Bug]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/cssutils/]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/cssutils/issues/list|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** No special hardware is required.
** Test suite is available.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant.
** Uses cdbs with a patching system.
** No packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:'' All dependencies are in main
 
=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/276107]]</nowiki>

''PhilippeNormand''
