{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ctdb ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/ctdb]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the server-lucid-seeds specification.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=ctdb|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=ctdb|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No suid/sgid.
** ctdb daemon runs as root.
** Due to the nature of the package it accepts incoming and outgoing packets.
** It does not directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** No <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:ctdb|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/c/ctdb.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.samba.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.samba.org|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.samba.org/show_bug.cgi?id=6979|6979]]</nowiki>
** No special hardware is needed.
** There is an upstream test suite but it is not enabled.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with simple patching system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, quilt, libpopt-dev, libpcap-dev, lsb-base, iproute, psmisc, tdb-tools, time, ethtool, 
** All are in main except tdb-tools
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** ctdb is a relatively simple package that is maintained by debian, however the ubuntu server team will be responsible for maintaining it.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/497035]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
