{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Mohamad Reza Mirdamadi ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mohi|mohi]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail''':
| 
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''mohi, LikeNoOther''' (in ''freenode'')
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| 
|}

=== about me ===
I'm Mohamad Reza Mirdamadi. I'm Persian, living in Mashhad, Iran.

I'm using Kubuntu and ubuntu since Dapper and I am eager to help spreading its spirit. :)

I use Kubuntu. Also I take part in translation of KDE and also lots of guides and wiki pages in Persian (some of you know it as Farsi). I'm one of the Ubuntu-ir forum and wiki.ubuntu-ir.org admin staff.

For Software Freedom Day 2007, I held an Ubuntu install fest in Iran-Mashhad thanks to <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-ir.org/MashhadTeam|Ubuntu-ir Mashhad team]]</nowiki>.We belive that was the largest install fest until then in Iran.

In 2007 I was the leader of the <nowiki>[[http://www.mashhadlug.org|Mashhad linux user group]]</nowiki> who took part in the install fest. As a result of the install fest we founded the Mashhadlug, I am on its administration team.

We have organized Ubuntu-ir release parties. I had a presentation prepared for Kubuntu Hardy for the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-ir.org/ReleaseParty/HardyReleaseParty|Hardy release party]]</nowiki>. The report also have came in <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1458]]</nowiki>

I founded and manage the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxshop.ir|LinuxShop.ir]]</nowiki>, Iranian all free/opensource software market and sell Linux dists like Ubuntu from as much as 0.5$ per CD and 1$ per DVD. I also made ubuntu shirts there. ;)

In 2008 also we had a SFD install fest that the details can be found at http://www.softwarefreedomday.org/teams/Mashhad . I was the leader and also had a presentation about why Linux is better in that day. 

=== contributions ===
in wiki.ubuntu.com
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseNotes/ir

in wiki.ubuntu-ir.org
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/BootLog
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/InstallingMoinMoin
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/Presentations
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/RestrictedFormats
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/PureKDE
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/LaptopSupport/Dell/Vostro1500 (not completed)

for GutsyGibbon:
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/GutsyGibbon/ReleaseNotes
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/GutsyGibbon/Beta/Kubuntu

for HardyHeron
* https://wiki.ubuntu.ir/HardyHeron/ReleaseNotes
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/HardyHeron/Beta/Kubuntu
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/HardyHeron/Kubuntu
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/HardyUpgrades/Kubuntu
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/Installation/Hardy/Wubi
* http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/Installation/Hardy/Live

=== contact ===
* Email:  * IRC name: mohi and LikeNoOther in #ubuntu-ir, #kde-ir, #persian, #mashhadlug

=== info pages ===
launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~mohi

Persian wiki page : http://wiki.ubuntu-ir.org/MohamadRezaMirdamadi

Persian forum page: http://forum.ubuntu-ir.org/index.php?action=profile;u=40
----
CategoryHomepage
