{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Facter ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/f/facte]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of puppet.
** 
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=facter|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=facter|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries setuid/segid root.
** No daemons.
** It does not have any network activity.
** It direcly processes structured data from the operating system.
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** The package does not ask any debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:facter|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/f/facter.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://reductivelabs.com/projects/facter|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic.
** <nowiki>[[http://projects.reductivelabs.com/projects/facter|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** facter does not deal with any special hardware.
** facter does have a testsuite but it is not enabled.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper packaging system with no patching system
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (in main)
** ruby (in main)
** libopenssl-ruby (in main)
** bind9-utils (in main)
** pciutils (in main)
0. ''Maintenance:''
* Since this is a simple library for puppet, there should not be alot of maintenance for facter. The Ubuntu Server Team will be the bug contact for facter and will take responsibily for it.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
