{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/genshi]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the canonical-application-support specification.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=genshi|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=genshi|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons.
** No network activity.
** It directly processes structured data.
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No Debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:genshi|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/genshi.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://genshi.edgewall.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://genshi.edgewall.org/ticket|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://genshi.edgewall.org/ticket/254|254]]</nowiki>
** No special hardware is needed.
** There is a testsuite in the upstream source but its not enabled.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and<nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, cdbs, python-all-dev, python-support, python-setuptools, libjs-jquery.
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Genshi is a relatively simple python package that is maintained in debian, however the Ubuntu Server Team will take responsibility of maintaining it in Ubuntu.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/491963]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
