{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mirespace|mirespace]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| mirespace
|-
| '''Email''':
| miriam.espana@canonical.com
|-
| '''Timezone''':
| CET (UTC+01:00)
|}

=== About Me ===

Hi! I'm Miriam. I'm a Computer Science Engineer that has been a Linux user since I installed my first SuSE 4.0 at the University (I remember I spent 5 days on it, using 5 DVDs from a Tech Linux Magazine!). I went through Fedora, CentOS, RedHat, Mandriva, LinuxMint, SuSE -again-, Debian and Ubuntu :).

The first OS I used was DR-DOS (from Digital Research) on my NEC-V20 based PC, without HD, CGA graphics (only 4 colours!) ... I remember having a lot of fun with it and learning about files and directories, commands (why should I be fearful of a black screen?), batch files and loaders: yes, I have to admit it was all for gaming, so I copied BASIC code from magazines (learning to code by intuition, guessing what those lines with repeated words were intended to do)... ahh... and how much you learned from the boot when a virus appeared!.  

I've been working at Canonical since Jul'21. You can see where I have worked here extensively on my membership applications for the different Ubuntu Developer levels but, I want to highlight the following:

 {*} I'm the first maintainer of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dotnet6/6.0.106-0ubuntu1|Dotnet package]]</nowiki> in Ubuntu

 {*} I'm <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/debian/dpdk/-/project_members?search=mirespace|dpdk developer in Debian]]</nowiki> due to I'm doing the latest upgrades for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dpdk|dpdk packages]]</nowiki> in the supported Ubuntu series.

 {*} I like processes and explain them to the community, like this <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nnHiK6ijxwc|talk]]</nowiki> I gave about the bug life-cycle in Ubuntu at the Open South 2024 Conference (Málaga, Spain).

=== Team Memberships ===
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server|Ubuntu Server Team]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~canonical-server|Canonical Server Team]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cloudware| Canonical Cloudware Team]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dotnet-packaging| dotNET Team]]</nowiki>

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
 {*} Being an Ubuntu Core Dev member

==== Current Project & Goals ====
 {*} Being a MOTU member

=== Membership Applications ===
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MiriamEspanaAcebal/ServerUploaderDeveloperApplication| Server Package Set Upload Rights]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MiriamEspanaAcebal/MOTUApplication| MOTU Developer ]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MiriamEspanaAcebal/CoreDeveloperApplication| Ubuntu Core Developer (WIP)]]</nowiki>
