{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/irqbalance]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Appart of the canonical-application-support spec. 
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=irqbalance|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** Irqbalance runs as root due to the nature of the irqbalance.
** No network activity.
** It directly processes binary data.
** No source code review done.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The situaations where irqbalance does not work out of the box is where there isnt more than one socket or CPU core.
** No debconf questions are asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:irqbalance|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: #500985 - It previously had problems handling more than 255 interrupts however this is fixed.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/i/irqbalance.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.irqbalance.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/irqbalance/issues/list|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
** This package deals with CPUs that have more than one socket or more than two cores.
** There is no testsuite in irqbalance.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** Uses debhelper with the quilt packaging system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper
** quilt
** pkg-config
** libglib2.0-dev
** xutils-dev
** lsb-base
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
* irqbalance is a simple package that doesnt need alot of maintenance, the Ubuntu server team will be responsible for this package.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/488835]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
