{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/likewise-open]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale''
    Able to join a Ubuntu workstation to a Active Directory domain this is quite important feature for hardy.

 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=likewise-open|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=likewise-open]]</nowiki> Secunia history.
** No binaries running as suid root.
** No binaries running as sgid root.
** likewise-winbindd is started so that the computer can connect to the ActiveDirectory domain.
** Due to the nature of the software it accepts incoming and outgoing network activity.
** No source code review done.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Due to nature of the software it requires to be configured by the user.
** No debconf questions asked.
** No debian maintainenance since this is an Ubuntu specific package.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.likewisesoftware.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic.
** <nowiki>[[http://lobugs.likewisesoftware.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> bug tracker.
** This package does not require any extra hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant.
** Uses debhelper with the quilt patching system.
** No packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libkrb5-dev, libldap2-dev, libpam0g-dev, uuid-dev,dpkg-dev, libpam-runtime, debhelper, autoconf, libglade2-dev, automake, quilt, libpam-runtime, krb5-user, perl
** All are in main except for krb5-user however the krb5 source is apart of main.
 0. This is the open source version of the likewise software.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/likewise-open/+bug/201537]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
