{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libelf ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libe/libelf|universe]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset?  '''all'''
# ''Rationale:''
** Why is this package needed?  '''This package is a build-dep of prelink'''
** Build dependency of '''prelink'''
** 
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libelf|no CVE entries]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libelf|no Secunia history]]</nowiki>
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? '''no'''  Any daemons ? '''no'''
** Network activity: does it open any port ? '''no''' Does it handle incoming network data ? '''no'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?  '''yes: ELF binaries are parsed'''
** Any source code review performed ?  '''yes, did a quick check'''
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? '''works out of the box'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  '''no'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libelf|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''nothing serious'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libe/libelf.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is '''calm'''
** <nowiki>[[http://cvs.fedora.redhat.com/viewvc/devel/prelink/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''active'''
** Upstream bug tracker: '''could not be found'''
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? '''no'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  '''no''' Is it enabled to run in the build ?
0. ''UI standards:'' '''not a GUI application'''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? '''yes'''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? '''yes'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? '''no'''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? '''yes'''
** Packaging system ('''debhelper'''/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ? '''none''' Any packaging oddities ? '''no'''
0. ''Dependencies:''
** '''gettext, debhelper (>= 4)'''
** Are these all in main ? '''yes'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  '''very little''' (Simple packages may largely take care of themselves; complex packages will need dedicated developers paying attention to them.)
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  '''ubuntu security team''' Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? '''yes'''
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? '''standard''' (Needs one if its a nontrivial package which does not fully maintain itself through Debian)
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  '''libelf''' Has it had different names in the past ?  '''no'''
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? '''N/A'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/418456]]</nowiki>

KeesCook
