{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libshadow-ruby ==

=== Requirements ===

0. ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libs/libshadow-ruby1.8]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
** Dependency of puppet.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=ruby-shadow|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=ruby-shadow|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries setgid/setuid root.
** No daemons.
** No network acitivy.
** It directly processes structured data (linux shadow password files).
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libshadow-ruby1.8|Debian bugs.]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libs/libshadow-ruby.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is dead.
** <nowiki>[[http://ttsky.net/src/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is dead.
** No upstream bug tracker.
** Does not deal with any hardware.
** No testsuite
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with no patch system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, ruby1.8, ruby1.8-dev
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** The package is relatively simple and has not been changed much. The ubuntu server team will be the bug contact and responsible for maintaining it.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
