{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for liblog-log4perl-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libl/liblog-log4perl-perl/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed to pull munin 1.4.0 from debian.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=log4perl|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=log4perl|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid or daemons.
** No network activity.
** It does not directly processes binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** No <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:liblog-log4perl-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libl/liblog-log4perl-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://mschilli.github.com/log4perl/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** Upstream bug tracker: No public upstream bug tracker.
** No special hardware is required.
** There is an upstream testsuite but it is not enabled in the build. 
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
0. ''Dependencies:''
** perl-modules, libxml-dom-perl in main.
** libdbd-csv-perl
** libsql-statement-perl
** libtext-csv-xs-perl
** liblog-dispatch-perl
** libparams-validate-perl
0. ''Maintenance:''
** liblog-log4perl-perl is a relatively simple package that is maintained by debian.
 
=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/liblog-log4perl-perl/+bug/526480]]</nowiki>

''MichaelJeanson''
