{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libcap-ng ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libc/libcap-ng]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of irqbalance.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libcap-ng|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libcap-ng|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons.
** No network activity.
** It directly processes structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libcap-ng|Debian bugs]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=553156|553156]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libc/libcap-ng.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://people.redhat.com/sgrubb/libcap-ng/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** No upstream bug tracker.
** No special hardware required.
** No testsuite in the upstream bug report.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with no packaging system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, autotools-dev, libattr1-dev, chrpath, swig, python-all-dev, python-support.
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** libcap-ng is a relatively simple package that the Ubuntu Server Team will be responsible for.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/496580]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
