{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for mysql-dfsg-5.1 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mysql-dfsg-5.1]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Replace mysql 5.0 with mysql 5.1 in main.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=mysql+5.1|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mysql+5.1|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** Launches the mysql daemon.
** No setuid/sgid riles.
** Due to the nature of mysql it can open a port and can handle incoming network traffic.
** It can directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The situation where mysql does not work out of the box without configuration is that if the user does not select a mysql root password.
** The package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:mysql-dfsg-5.1|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mysql-dfsg-5.1.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.mysql.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.mysql.com/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
** No special hardware is needed.
** There is an upstream testsuite but it is not enabled because it fails currently in the debian package.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Use debhelper and dpatch with no packaging oddities.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libtool (in main)
** procps (in main)
** debhelper (in main)
** libncurses5-dev (in main)
** perl (in main)
** libwrap0-dev (in main)
** zlib1g-dev (in main)
** libreadline5-dev (in main)
** psmisc (in main)
** po-debconf (in main)
** chrpath (in main)
** automake1.9 (in main)
** doxygen (in main)
** texlive-latex-base (in main)
** gs (in main)
** dpatch (in main)
** gawk (in main)
** bison (in main)
** lsb-release (in main) 
** debianutils (in main) 
** libdbi-perl (in main) 
** libdbd-mysql-perl (in main) 
0. ''Maintenance:''
** The mysql-dfsg-5.1 will need the same level of maintenance as the mysql-dfsg-5.0 package in Ubuntu. The Ubuntu server team will be responsible for the qualitiy of the package and fixing its bugs.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/408333]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
