{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Monit ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/monit]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the canonical-application-support spec.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=monit|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: Previous versions of monit had CVE but none are current.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=monitr|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** Monit has binaries running as root.
** Monit dameon is run.
** Due to the nature of the package, it accepts both incoming and outgoing network traffic. It runs its own web interface on port 2182.
** It directly does not work on binary data.
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** By default the package does not out of the box since it is specific to the data that the user wants to manage.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:monit|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=427924|427924]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/monit.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://mmonit.com/monit/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frentic.
** <nowiki>[[https://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=monit|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 
** No special hardware is required.
** Monit doesnt have a testsuite.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, byacc, flex, cdbs, libssl-dev, automake1.9, dpatch, libpam-dev
** All are in main.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
* Monit will not need alot of maintenance done by the Ubuntu Server Team.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
