{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/nagios2]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
** Dapper has a nagios version in main, however hardy does not. Also requested by Elmo.
 0. ''Security:''
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=nagios|CVE]]</nowiki> entries affecting hardy. But it does have a history of buffer overflows and XSS vulnerabilities.
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=nagios|Secunia]]</nowiki> histroy.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Daemon is started at boot for the monitoring of devices.
** Due to the nature of the package it accepts both incoming and outgoing network traffic.
** Listens on port 5666.
** No source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Due to the nature of the package it requires to be configured by hand.
** No debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:nagios2|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/nagios2.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.nagios.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** No upstream bug tracker, it uses the developer mailing list.
** No special hardware needed.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and<nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant.
** Uses debhelper with dpatch. No packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, dpatch, po-debconf, libperl-dev, libpng12-dev, libgd2-noxpm-dev or libgd2-xpm-dev, iputils-ping, autotools-dev, dpkg-dev , nagios-plugins-basic, coreutils, mailx, adduser, lsb-base, ucf, apache2-utils. All in main except for nagios-plugins-basic.
 0. There are three different versions of nagios. Nagios 1.x - Very old release branch. Nagios 2.x Legacy stable release branch. Nagios 3.x most recent stable release branch.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nagios2/+bug/211323]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
