{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/nagios-plugins]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of nagios.
 0. ''Security:''
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=nagios-plugins|CVE]]</nowiki> entries affecting hardy but it does have a history of buffer overflows.
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=nagios-plugins|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** Suid/Sgid binaries include: check_icmp and check_dhcp.
** Due to the nature of the package it accepts incoming and outgoing network traffic.
** No source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Due to the nature of the package it requires to be configured with nagios.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:nagios-plugins|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/nagios-plugins.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.nagios.org]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** Nagios developer mailing list is the bug tracker.
** No special hardware is required.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant.
** debhelper and dpatch, no packaging quirks.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, dpatch, autotools-dev, libldap2-dev, libpq-dev | postgresql-dev, libmysqlclient15-dev | libmysqlclient12-dev | libmysqlclient-dev, libradius1-dev, libkrb5-dev, libnet-snmp-perl, procps, coreutils, mawk | awk
** All in main except for libradius1-dev.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nagios-plugins/+bug/211386]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
