{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for nagios-nrpe ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/nagios-nrpe]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the canonical-application-support specification
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=nrpe|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=nrpe|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** The server package runs the nrpe daemon.
** Due to the nature of the software it accepts both incoming and outcoming packages and runs on port 5666.
** It does not directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:nagios-nrpe|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=547092|547092]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/nagios-nrpe.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.nagios.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[https://tickets.nagios.com/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** The package doesnt deal with any special hardware.
** There is no upstream testsuite.
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ?
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, openssl, dpatch, libssl-dev, lsb-base, adduser, nagios-plugins, nagios3
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** nagios-nrpe is a simple package that probably not going to need alot maintenance.The Ubuntu Server Team will be responsible for the maintenance of it in Ubuntu

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/492340]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
