{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe MIRPyCXX here.
=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pycxx]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architecture.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of pysvn.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pycxx|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pycxx|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons.
** No network activity.
** It directly process binary data.
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pycxx|Debian bugs.]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pycxx.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://cxx.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2716740&group_id=3180&atid=103180|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** Does not deal with any special hardware.
** There is a testscript but it is not enabled at build time.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, python-central, python-all-dev
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** pycxx is a relatively simple package that is maintained in debian however the Ubuntu server team will be taking care of it.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/491442]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
