{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for psycopg2 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/psycopg2]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the canonical-application-support specification.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=psycopg2|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=psycopg2|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid or daemons.
** No network activity.
** It directly processes structured data.
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** This package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:psycopg2|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/psycopg2.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://initd.org/projects/psycopg|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** No upstream bugtracker.
** No exotic hardware is needed.
** There is an upstream testsuite but it is not enabled in the build.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, python-all-dev, python-all-dbg, python-central, python, python-egenix-mx-base-dev, autoconf, libpq-dev, zope-debhelper, python-egenix-mxdatetime
** Are these all in main except zope-debhelper
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** pyscopg2 is a small package that is relatively simple package that the Ubuntu Server Team will take care of it.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/492365]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
