{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/python-pysqlite2]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the canonical-application-support specification.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=python-psyqlite2|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=python-pysqlite2|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No network daemons.
** No network activity.
** It directly processes structured data.  
** No source code review done.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** python-pysqlite2 should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:python-pysqlite2|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/python-pysqlite2.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/PySqlite|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/PySqlite#SummaryofKnownIssues|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** pysqlite2 does not require any special hardware.
** There is an upstream testsuite but it is not enabled during build.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with no patching system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, python-all-dev, python-all-dbg, python-central, libsqlite3-dev, python-spinx, libjs-jquery
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** python-pysqlite2 is a relatively simple package that the Ubuntu Server Team will be taking care of in Ubuntu.
=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
