{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-pastedeploy ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pastedeploy]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of canonical-application-support specification.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pastedeploy|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pastedeploy|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid or any daemons.
** No network activity.
** It directly (not through a library) proceses structured data.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pastedeploy|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pastedeploy.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://pythonpaste.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://trac.pythonpaste.org/pythonpaste/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** No specific hardware is required.
** There is a test suite but it is not enabled 
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with dpatch
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, dpatch, python, python-all-dev, python-support, python-setuptools, python-docutils, python-pkg-resources
** All are in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  (Simple packages may largely take care of themselves; complex packages will need dedicated developers paying attention to them.)
* The ubuntu server team will be responsible for python-pastedeploy on ubuntu. 

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/493594]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
