{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-django ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/python-django]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
# ''Rationale:''
** Requested by Canonical IS staff, apart of the canonical infrastructure.
0. ''Security:''
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=django|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=django|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons are running.
** It does not open any other ports but due to the nature of the software in manipulates data.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** There should not be any situations where the package does not work out of the box without configuration since it is a python framework.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:python-django|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/python-django.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.djangoproject.com|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic.
** <nowiki>[[http://code.djangoproject.com/simpleticket|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
** This package does not deal with any special hardware.
** There is a django testsuite and support was recently enabled in the package.
0. ''UI standards:''
** Django is a python framework so the UI standards does not apply.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with quilt patching system.
0. ''Dependencies:'' debhelper, python-support, quilt, python-sphinx, libjs-jquery 
** all are in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
From the open bug count on launchpad there appears to be little package maintenance required since it is done mostly in debian and only 
requires a sync once in a while.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/406532]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
