{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-svn ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pysvn]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the canonical-application-support spec.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=PRODUCT_NAME|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons.
** pysvn doesnt open a port, but it does handle incoming and outgoing network data ?
** It directly processes binary data.
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The situations where it does not work out of the box is that when subversion is not setup properly.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pysvn|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pysvn.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://pysvn.tigris.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?
** <nowiki>[[http://pysvn.tigris.org/servlets/ProjectIssues|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** No special hardware is required.
** There is a testsuite but it is not enabled.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, python-all-dev, python-all-dbg, python-cxx-dev, libsvn, libapr1-dev
libneon27-gnutls-dev, subversion
python-central
** All are in main except python-cxx-dev.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** python-svn is a relatively simple package that is well maintained in debian. The Ubuntu server team will maintain it for Ubuntu though.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/491440]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
