{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for prelink ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/prelink|universe]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset? '''currently needed only for amd64 and i386 (as build-dep of fglrx-installer), not currently built for armel'''
# ''Rationale:''
** Why is this package needed?  '''This package includes logic for setting, clearing, or creating the GNU_STACK ELF section that declares if the stack for a given ELF should be executable or not.  This tool, "execstack", would be used to force-clear exec-stack markings for ELF binaries we do not have the source to and ship in restricted (fglrx-installer, nvidia-*)'''
** Build dependency of '''fglrx-installer if this MIR is approved'''
** 
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=prelinik|no CVE entries]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=prelink|no Secunia history]]</nowiki>
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? '''no'''  Any daemons ? '''no, but a non-default cron job can be used to prelink binaries -- it is not expected this feature would ever be used in Ubuntu.  If needed, "execstack" could be split to a separate binary deb and the rest of prelink pushed into universe.'''
** Network activity: does it open any port ? '''no''' Does it handle incoming network data ? '''no'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?  '''yes: ELF binaries are parsed'''
** Any source code review performed ?  '''yes, did a quick check'''
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? '''works out of the box (defaults to disabled)'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  '''no'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:prelink|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''most bugs are related to the prelink functionality, not the execstack functionality'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/prelink.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is '''calm'''
** <nowiki>[[http://cvs.fedora.redhat.com/viewvc/devel/prelink/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''calm'''
** <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&product=Fedora&component=prelink&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=MODIFIED&bug_status=ON_DEV&bug_status=ON_QA&bug_status=VERIFIED&bug_status=FAILS_QA&field0-0-0=product&type0-0-0=substring&value0-0-0=prelink&field0-0-1=component&type0-0-1=substring&value0-0-1=prelink&field0-0-2=short_desc&type0-0-2=substring&value0-0-2=prelink&field0-0-3=status_whiteboard&type0-0-3=substring&value0-0-3=prelink&field0-0-4=longdesc&type0-0-4=substring&value0-0-4=prelink|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: '''only prelink functionality bugs'''
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? '''no'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  '''yes''' Is it enabled to run in the build ?  '''no, believed to be unstable'''
0. ''UI standards:'' '''not a GUI application'''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? '''no'''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? '''no'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? '''no'''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? '''yes'''
** Packaging system ('''debhelper'''/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ? '''dpatch''' Any packaging oddities ? '''some minor RPMism-workarounds'''
0. ''Dependencies:''
** '''libc6-dev (>> 2.3.5) | libc6.1-dev (>> 2.3.5), debhelper (>> 4.0.18), libelfg0-dev, libpopt-dev, dpatch (>= 1.11), libselinux1-dev'''
** Are these all in main ? '''no, libelf needs MIR too'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  '''very little''' (Simple packages may largely take care of themselves; complex packages will need dedicated developers paying attention to them.)
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  '''ubuntu security team''' Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? '''yes'''
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? '''standard''' (Needs one if its a nontrivial package which does not fully maintain itself through Debian)
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  '''prelink''' Has it had different names in the past ?  '''no'''
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? '''N/A'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/418456]]</nowiki>

KeesCook
