{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for puppet ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/puppet]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
# ''Rationale:''
** Provide a tool for configuraion management for large installations and dynamic cloud deployment.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=puppet|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=puppet|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  
** Runs the puppetd daemon and puppetmasterd daemon.
** Due to the nature of puppet it accepts incoming and outcoing network data and opens a port as well.
** Directly (not through a library) processes structured  data.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The situation where the package does not work out of the box is that the configuration files are misconfigured or the puppet reciepes are incorrect.
** The package does not ask any debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:puppet|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 518831 is particularily interesting.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/puppet.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://reductivelabs.com/products/puppet|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frentic.
** [http://projects.reductivelabs.com/projects/puppet/issues?set_filter=1 |Upstream bug tracker]]
** Does not deal with any special hardware.
** There is an upstream test suite but its not enabled in the build.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with no patch system.
0. ''Dependencies:'' ruby, libopenssl-ruby, facter, openssl, debhelper,libxmlrpc-ruby, libopenssl-ruby, libshadow-ruby1.8, adduser, facter, lsb-base
** All are in main except facter, libxmlrpc-ruby, libshadow-ruby1.8
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Since its a popular package in debian and used by companies like google it is a well maintained package. The Ubuntu server team will responsible for taking care of the package in Ubuntu which includes monitoring and fixing bugs.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
