{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''
|}
To be able to create a mirror people can rely on, you need to have all the files and you need them at the right moment. 'File not found'-errors cause a lot of issues and annoyances for users. This page provides you with scripts to sync from other mirrors and prevent 404's.

== ubumirror ==

One can use the scripts from the '''<nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubumirror-devs/ubumirror/trunk|ubumirror]]</nowiki>''' project to keep their mirror in sync, or use the scripts provided below.

This project has been <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubumirror|packaged since Lucid]]</nowiki> onwards, please file any bug reports you find <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubumirror|against it]]</nowiki>.

== Archive mirrors ==

For archive mirrors, it is very important '''not''' to delete packages before the Packages.gz-files (which hold information about the packages available) are updated. Therefor, you need a 'Two stage sync'. This means that you download new packages first, and new Packages.gz after that. After you've downloaded the Packages.gz files, it's safe to delete old packages.

=== The script ===

<pre>

fatal() {
  echo "$1"
  exit 1
}

warn() {
  echo "$1"
}

RSYNCSOURCE=rsync://archive.ubuntu.mirror.isp.com/ubuntu

BASEDIR=/var/www/ubuntuarchive/

if [ ! -d ${BASEDIR} ]; then
  warn "${BASEDIR} does not exist yet, trying to create it..."
  mkdir -p ${BASEDIR} || fatal "Creation of ${BASEDIR} failed."
fi

rsync --recursive --times --links --safe-links --hard-links \
  --stats \
  --exclude "Packages*" --exclude "Sources*" \
  --exclude "Release*" --exclude "InRelease" \
  ${RSYNCSOURCE} ${BASEDIR} || fatal "First stage of sync failed."

rsync --recursive --times --links --safe-links --hard-links \
  --stats --delete --delete-after \
  ${RSYNCSOURCE} ${BASEDIR} || fatal "Second stage of sync failed."

date -u > ${BASEDIR}/project/trace/$(hostname -f)
</pre>

== Releases mirrors ==

For Releases mirrors, stuff is a little less complicated. There are no dependencies between files, so you can just rsync away.

=== The script ===

<pre>

fatal() {
  echo "$1"
  exit 1
}

warn() {
  echo "$1"
}

RSYNCSOURCE=rsync://releases.ubuntu.mirror.isp.com/releases

BASEDIR=/var/www/ubuntureleases/

if [ ! -d ${BASEDIR} ]; then
  warn "${BASEDIR} does not exist yet, trying to create it..."
  mkdir -p ${BASEDIR} || fatal "Creation of ${BASEDIR} failed."
fi

rsync --verbose --recursive --times --links --safe-links --hard-links \
  --stats --delete-after \
  ${RSYNCSOURCE} ${BASEDIR} || fatal "Failed to rsync from ${RSYNCSOURCE}."

date -u > ${BASEDIR}/.trace/$(hostname -f)
</pre>
