{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/squid-langpack]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of squid.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=squid-langpack|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=squid-langpack|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons.
** No network activity.
** It does directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Squid-langpack should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:squid_langpack|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>:
**** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=538226|#538226]]</nowiki>squid: Error Pages moved

** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/squid-langpack.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.squid-cache.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.squid-cache.org/bugs/index.cgi|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>:
** Doesn't deal with any special hardware.
** No upstream testsuite
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** uses debhelper.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper - in main
 0. ''Maintenance:''
* The package is small enough that it maintains itself. The ubuntu server team will be responsible for maintaining and for the bug triaging if any.
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/415410]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
