{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for tdb-tools ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/t/tdb]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the server-lucid-seeds specification.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=tdb|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=tdb|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid or daemons.
** No network activity.
** It  directly processes binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:tdb|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=557819|557819]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/t/tdb.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.samba.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.samba.org|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
** No special hardware is required.
** No upstream test suite.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, quilt, python-central, python-dev
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** tdb is a relatively simple package that is maintained by debian however the ubuntu server team will take care of tdb in ubuntu.
 
=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/496998]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
