{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for yasm ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/y/yasm]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** The most important hand written assembly in FFmpeg requires yasm to build. It is an optional build dependency of ffmpeg but required for a fully optimized (full speed) build. 
** 
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=yasm|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=yasm|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid
** No daemons
** Opens no ports 
** Does not handle incoming network data
** It handles structured x86 family assembly
** No source code review performed
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Does not require configuration
** No debconf
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:yasm|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/y/yasm.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.tortall.net/projects/yasm/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www.tortall.net/projects/yasm/report|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: calm
** Designed for use with common x86 hardware.
** There are some syntax tests upstream. They are not part of the build.
0. ''UI standards:''
** Not an end user or GUI package.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Debhelper packaging system
** Quilt patch system
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Runtime: libc6 (>= 2.7)
** Build Dependencies: debhelper (>= 5.0), quilt, bison, gettext, xmlto, python
** These are all in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
** yasm is simple and well maintained in Debian 

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/497674]]</nowiki>

Alex Converse
