{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/z/zope-debhelper]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency for psycopg2.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=zope-debhelper|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=zope-debhelper|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid or any daemons.
** No Network activity.
** It does not directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions asked.
** No <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:zope-debhelper|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/z/zope-debhelper.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** No special hardware is needed.
** No upstream testsuite.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses cdbs with no patching system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debehelper, perl
** All are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** zope-debhelper is a relatively simple package that is maintained in debian, however the Ubuntu Server Team will be responsible for it in Ubuntu.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/496967]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
