{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="display:block;">
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''MissouriTeam Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
The meeting was called together and covered each point on the agenda.  Further discussion on the Agenda has 

'''Team Page:''' <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissouriTeam]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log(s):''' <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissouriTeam/Meetings/2007AUG15?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=rawirclog20070815.txt|rawirclog20070815.txt]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' MatthewCopple <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

=== Members Present ===
* Bonnie (bonthegeek)
* Eric (erimar77)
* Joe Brouhard (jbrouhard)
* Matthew Copple (`PenguinistaKC`)
* Kent Seaton (spr0k3t)

=== Others Present ===
* Jason Wendell (CTech)
* John (johnc4510)
* Chase Pettet (Rush_898)
* Peter Newman (wizarth)
* Christer (Zelut)

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Review and approval of 2007/08/01
* Projects
** <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Projects/ArtWork]]</nowiki>
*** Team Logo Design and Submissions
*** Business Cards
*** Case Tags
** Documentation
** LoCo Approval Process
** Membership Drive
* Regional LUG meetings
* After notes

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''20:30''', by Meeting Chair, '''MatthewCopple'''''

=== Agenda ===
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

----
==== Review and approval of 2007/08/01 ====
'''Presented by:''' MatthewCopple <<BR>>
The hilights of <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Meetings/2007AUG01| August 1st]]</nowiki> were touched briefly and approved by the initial members present.  No objections throughout.
<pre>
Aug 15 20:36:07 <PenguinistaKC>	First item on the agenda is review and approval of minutes for the August 1st meeting. They were posted to the mailing list on August 8. Are there any changes or objections to the minutes as posted?
Aug 15 20:36:49 <spr0k3t>	link: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissouriTeam/Meetings/2007AUG01
Aug 15 20:37:04 <PenguinistaKC>	Feel free to post them now, or send them to me via e-mail (mcopple at kcopensource.org) by the end of the meeting. If there are no objections or changes, they will be considered approved as read.
Aug 15 20:37:26 <PenguinistaKC>	Correction, if no objections or changes by end of meeting, they will be considered approved as read.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"
----
==== Projects/ArtWork/Team Logo Design and Submissions ====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<pre>
Aug 15 20:39:04 <spr0k3t>	The artwork is current developing and we have a couple logo designs.
Aug 15 20:39:07 <PenguinistaKC>	Absolutely. According to my e-mail, we've had eight new members join since the last meeting.
Aug 15 20:39:39 <spr0k3t>       https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissouriTeam/Projects/ArtWork
Aug 15 20:40:48 <spr0k3t>	The logo designs are just an innitial idea... any other submissions are welcome to be added
Aug 15 20:41:54 <spr0k3t>	The designs of the logos still need to be tweaked, but you can get an idea of what works for the trademark policies.
Aug 15 20:43:19 <spr0k3t>	once the logos are finalized and approved by Canonical, we will look into purchasing business cards.  The cards would be a generic introduction to Ubuntu and describe information on the LoCo.
Aug 15 20:47:46 <PenguinistaKC>	We would like to have logo submissions by 1 September, is that correct?
Aug 15 20:48:34 <spr0k3t>	ah yes.. the deadlines for logo submission is set to SEP 01.  The vote for the layout that we present to canonical will be at the following meeting of the 5th.
Aug 15 20:49:08 <PenguinistaKC>	Are there any other questions or comments on the topic?
Aug 15 20:49:43 <spr0k3t>	Just a reminder though, anyone is welcome to submit logo ideas... the more the merrier
Aug 15 20:50:16 <PenguinistaKC>	Please! We're looking for submissions that reflect the whole state, since the LoCo serves the entire state.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"
----
==== Projects/ArtWork/Business Cards ====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<pre>
Aug 15 20:43:19 <spr0k3t>	once the logos are finalized and approved by Canonical, we will look into purchasing business cards.  The cards would be a generic introduction to Ubuntu and describe information on the LoCo.
Aug 15 20:44:30 <Rush_898>	what is the extent of the licensing? Does it lend itself to t-shirts, etc as well?
Aug 15 20:45:19 <spr0k3t>	Rush_898: once the logo is considered official with support from canonical, we can do anything we want with the logo so long as it doesn't change.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved/Declined'''"
----
==== Projects/ArtWork/Case Tags ====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<pre>
Aug 15 20:44:39 <spr0k3t>	Another point in the artwork are the case tags.  I've offered some funds to purchase some high quality aluminum case tags to be used for welcoming new users
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved/Declined'''"
----
==== Projects/Documentation ====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<pre>
Aug 15 20:46:44 <spr0k3t>	that brings me to my next point on the list of the agenda... documentation in projects.
Aug 15 20:50:50 <spr0k3t>	this is going to be rather simple.
Aug 15 20:51:46 <spr0k3t>	documentation does not have to be extensive or even official sounding... what I'm looking for are people interested in blogging about their experiences with various programs in Linux... not just ubuntu.
Aug 15 20:52:44 <spr0k3t>	if you have something you would like to write about, I'd like to add this information to the wiki as it will help many newcomers to Linux in general.
Aug 15 20:53:09 <Rush_898>	it would be cool if each member of the LoCo had 5 favorite/recommended applications, it might be a good starting point for documentation too
Aug 15 20:54:03 <spr0k3t>	exellent point Rush_898
Aug 15 20:54:31 <spr0k3t>	Perhaps it could be something added to the personal Wiki pages.
Aug 15 20:55:51 <PenguinistaKC>	spr0k3t, won't putting software documentation on our pages conflict with overall Ubuntu documentation policy?
Aug 15 20:56:08 <spr0k3t>	That's another part of the documentation project... to make a larger presence, I believe we should flesh out the personal Wiki pages a bit.  You can find some good examples by checking out johnc4510, atoponce, nixternal etc
Aug 15 20:56:29 <PenguinistaKC>	I was under the impression that they preferred to have how-tos and such categorized in application-specific areas of the general wiki?
Aug 15 20:57:00 <spr0k3t>	PenguinistaKC: I thought about that, and no, as long as the documentation of the software is your personal experience... no howtos, just what you think... sort of like a review.
Aug 15 20:57:12 <PenguinistaKC>	OK
Aug 15 20:57:43 <spr0k3t>	it's best if we build those reviews on personal blogs, then link to the blogs from the personal wiki pages... from there we can link to those from the MissouriTeam
Aug 15 20:58:01 <spr0k3t>	it's a way of fleshing out the wiki.
Aug 15 20:59:04 <spr0k3t>	any other questions or recomendations at this point?
Aug 15 20:59:18 <PenguinistaKC>	I'm all for it as long as it is useful content. I don't want us stuffing the wiki just to look active.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"
----
==== Projects/LoCo Approval Process ====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
The approval process is a good start, however more information is needed with the approval process.  MatthewCopple has stepped forward to develop the vision for the team.  The project pages are in place and ready to be built upon.  Members have stated their interest in the direction and drive to go with the team.  Overall, the approval page was declined for lack of information and drive.  Further discussion will take place on the mailing list.
<pre>
Aug 15 21:00:43 <PenguinistaKC>	OK, let's move on to LoCo approval process. Again, if anyone wants to add additional comments, we'll have a time at the end of the meeting. This way, we keep things moving for folks who want to get other stuff done tonight. :)
Aug 15 21:01:32 <spr0k3t>	I've got this documentation started as an outline of what to expect
Aug 15 21:01:34 <spr0k3t>       https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissouriTeam/Projects/Approval
Aug 15 21:01:53 <spr0k3t>	the idea is, establishment and long term projects.
Aug 15 21:03:21 <spr0k3t>	whether those include introducing Ubuntu to X number of users per year... triag so many bugs at launchpad... or whathaveyou.  The projects canonical are looking for are those with the long term expansion in mind.
Aug 15 21:03:50 <spr0k3t>	The other area they look at is activity on the various forms of communication.
Aug 15 21:04:54 <spr0k3t>	feel free to go over the approval form to see what you might be interested in or if you have ideas you can add to the projects.
Aug 15 21:05:15 <PenguinistaKC>	Here's my feedback, for what it's worth.
Aug 15 21:05:34 <PenguinistaKC>	Successful projects stem from a handful of related things:
Aug 15 21:05:42 <PenguinistaKC>	1. A vision
Aug 15 21:05:50 <PenguinistaKC>	2. Resources
Aug 15 21:05:58 <PenguinistaKC>	3. Organization
Aug 15 21:07:12 <PenguinistaKC>	I've been a neighborhood activist for as long as I've been a Linux advocate, and one of the first things I learned as a neighborhood association officer is that when you have a limited number of people with limited time, the projects you choose have to be small, focused, and achievable.
Aug 15 21:07:40 <spr0k3t>	so what do you guys think?  how many people could you introduce to Ubuntu using the LiveCDs?
Aug 15 21:09:24 <PenguinistaKC>	With respect, the first project we need to complete is getting organized and developing a vision.
Aug 15 21:11:15 <spr0k3t>	so does anyone have any questions thus far?
Aug 15 21:11:24 <PenguinistaKC>	While I respect the wishes of the LoCo guys to get everyone approved by the end of the year, I feel it is more important to place this team on a firm, self-sustaining footing that can actually make a long-term difference.
Aug 15 21:14:20 <PenguinistaKC>	Here's what I suggest. First, if folks have ideas for projects, short or long term, please do suggest them. We have a spot for it at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissouriTeam/Projects
Aug 15 21:15:15 <PenguinistaKC>	In the mean time, let's begin a dialog on the mailing list about formally organizing the team and coming up with tha vision. I have some ideas on both fronts, and I'm sure others do, as well.
Aug 15 21:15:37 <spr0k3t>	sounds good
Aug 15 21:15:45 <PenguinistaKC>	We already had a short discussion on pros & cons of incorporation and such.
Aug 15 21:16:33 <PenguinistaKC>	With your permission, I will come up with a project plan for it.
Aug 15 21:16:43 <PenguinistaKC>	For organizing, that is.
Aug 15 21:16:47 <PenguinistaKC>	Any objections?
Aug 15 21:17:28 <PenguinistaKC>	We'll discuss it on the mailing list and Kent, why don't we build a page to go along with it so we can keep track of where the discussion and action items are going?
Aug 15 21:17:37 <spr0k3t>	sounds good to me... but something to think about though, there are other groups in the USTeams that are trying to achieve the same... perhaps it would be good if we build upon existing objects.
Aug 15 21:17:52 <jbrouhard>	Eh
Aug 15 21:17:57 <jbrouhard>	For one thing
Aug 15 21:18:01 <jbrouhard>	incorporating is one thing
Aug 15 21:18:01 <PenguinistaKC>	I have no issues with stealing, err, repeating success.
Aug 15 21:18:30 <jbrouhard>	I've got my own personal issues with it, but that's just me.  I'm going with LLC for Proxima Networks to absolve me of any financial problems in the future with the business.
Aug 15 21:18:52 <jbrouhard>	While i've read and understood matt's e-mail, I'm still not sure if i'm in agreement
Aug 15 21:20:11 <PenguinistaKC>	Then let's discuss it on the mailing list. I need to do some research on how other teams are organizing themselves, certainly. 
Aug 15 21:20:16 <jbrouhard>	am i lagging here? <G>
Aug 15 21:20:20 <spr0k3t>	anyway onward to the membership drive
Aug 15 21:20:27 <jbrouhard>	Ok
Aug 15 21:20:28 <PenguinistaKC>	There are probably also legal issues around Canonical that need to be resolved, too.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Declined'''"
----
==== Projects/Membership Drive ====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
The membership is increasing steadily.  The drive is not really needed at this time since the team is just starting to flesh out.  Activity is picking up on the mailing list as well as the IRC channel.  Members have shown an interest in developing projects.
<pre>
Aug 15 21:21:03 <spr0k3t>	right now it's not important to build our members as we have new users interested every day it seems.
Aug 15 21:21:50 <spr0k3t>	however... if you know of existing ubuntu users in missouri, feel free to let them know about our efforts.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"
----
==== Regional LUG Meetings ====
'''Presented by:''' Member <<BR>>
<pre>
Aug 15 21:22:15 <PenguinistaKC>	Is there anyone here who is from parts of MIssouri other than metro KC?
Aug 15 21:22:22 <PenguinistaKC>	I know that Joe is from St. Joe.
Aug 15 21:22:24 <bonthegeek>	Springfield, here.
Aug 15 21:22:35 <jbrouhard>	Springfield?  kewl
Aug 15 21:22:39 <spr0k3t>	nods
Aug 15 21:22:40 <PenguinistaKC>	bonthegeek, is there a LUG in Springfield of any sort?
Aug 15 21:22:54 <bonthegeek>	The best I can tell, it has fizzled and died a month ago.
Aug 15 21:23:20 <spr0k3t>	yeah, the LUG meetings are no longer in Springfield... however I'd like to help change that.
Aug 15 21:23:55 <PenguinistaKC>	I would, as well. Let's put reestablishing and expanding our LUG base on the proposed projects list.
Aug 15 21:24:22 <bonthegeek>	I'd be glad to chip in on the Springfield LUG efforts, definitely.
Aug 15 21:24:37 <jbrouhard>	I got one question
Aug 15 21:24:44 <spr0k3t>	fire away.
Aug 15 21:24:44 <jbrouhard>	what do you all want to see at LUG meetings ?
Aug 15 21:24:54 <wizarth>	Cheap cola.
Aug 15 21:24:55 <jbrouhard>	That's been the #1 qustion we ask our ATA Students
Aug 15 21:24:59 <spr0k3t>	lol wizarth
Aug 15 21:25:06 <jbrouhard>	what they want to see in classes, tournaments, or even seminars.
Aug 15 21:25:12 <PenguinistaKC>	I want to see you lug in that 4U Rackmount of yours. :0
Aug 15 21:25:14 <jbrouhard>	so, I ask you guys.. what do you want to see at a LUG meeting ?
Aug 15 21:25:24 <jbrouhard>	Matt
Aug 15 21:25:27 <jbrouhard>	I have an 8U rackmount here too
Aug 15 21:25:31 <jbrouhard>	it's about twice as heavy
Aug 15 21:25:38 <PenguinistaKC>	That's going  to depend on the area, Joe.
Aug 15 21:25:38 <jbrouhard>	and i can lug that thing around like it's a backpack so shaddup
Aug 15 21:25:40 <spr0k3t>	yay for rackmounts!
Aug 15 21:25:47 <bonthegeek>	I have never been to one, so I'm not sure what is expected.
Aug 15 21:25:51 <PenguinistaKC>	But that does bring up one last thing:
Aug 15 21:26:09 <jbrouhard>	Okay
Aug 15 21:26:10 <jbrouhard>	How about this
Aug 15 21:26:18 <PenguinistaKC>	Go ahead, Joe.
Aug 15 21:26:18 <jbrouhard>	do you guys want to see a How-to on doing this, that, or whatever else ?
Aug 15 21:26:30 <jbrouhard>	Or maybe even a little LUG meeting that is converted to a LAN party ?
Aug 15 21:26:35 <jbrouhard>	Maybe.. I don't know..
Aug 15 21:26:40 <jbrouhard>	code-a-thon ?
Aug 15 21:26:43 <wizarth>	Oh, linux gaming.
Aug 15 21:26:56 <jbrouhard>	I'm pretty sure linux gaming will go a long way, if I can figure out how to distribute cedega properly
Aug 15 21:27:23 <spr0k3t>	we'll see how that goes.
Aug 15 21:27:29 <PenguinistaKC>	Let's remember, though, that our purpose, as a LoCo anyway, is to work with LUGs. Because we cover the whole state, it would be hard to be a LUG, except in the most general, virtual sense.
Aug 15 21:28:03 <spr0k3t>	the LoCo is an extension of the individual LUGs...
Aug 15 21:28:33 -->	        UncleSam (n=USbot at unaffiliated/vorian/bot/unclesam) has joined #ubuntu-missouri
Aug 15 21:28:48 <spr0k3t>	one thing I would like to do is include some information what is happening around the state at the LUG meetings... just a quick summary of events and whatnot.
Aug 15 21:28:54 <PenguinistaKC>	We can (and will) do a lot of the stuff LUGs do -- provide support for Ubuntu users, introduce folks to Ubuntu, serve as a contact point for folks who are interested in getting ino development or other points. But we have to make sure that we provide services and direct resources to help folks all over the state, rather than just in the KC Metro.
Aug 15 21:29:36 <PenguinistaKC>	Everywhere we can find two or three Linux users, I would like to get a LUG started.
Aug 15 21:29:51 <spr0k3t>	that's a lot of LUGs
Aug 15 21:29:58 <PenguinistaKC>	Perhaps.
Aug 15 21:30:44 <PenguinistaKC>	But a user in Springfield, for instance, will have a lot easier time learning and sticking with Linux if there are several folks providing support and social activities, rather han a mailing list owned by a bunch of guys in KC.
Aug 15 21:30:56 <PenguinistaKC>	That's why we are here.
Aug 15 21:30:56 <--	        Zelut has quit (Nick collision from services.)
Aug 15 21:31:11 <spr0k3t>	so do we have any questions or objections?
Aug 15 21:31:20 <wizarth>	As someone in the boonies I can certainly agree with PenguinistaKC
Aug 15 21:31:22 <bonthegeek>	Springfield is surely big enough to keep a LUG going.  Does anyone know why the recent one folded?
Aug 15 21:31:41 <spr0k3t>	I do...
Aug 15 21:32:07 <spr0k3t>	there was just a lack of meeting up... no real drive or anything.
Aug 15 21:32:45 <spr0k3t>	apparently one of their key users who was the glue moved out of state.
Aug 15 21:33:40 <PenguinistaKC>	KCLUG meets at the downtown library on 1st wednesday and third tuesday.
Aug 15 21:34:08 <PenguinistaKC>	And we will have an informal, Ubuntu-oriented meet 'n' greet at 5 p.m. on Saturday, August 25.
Aug 15 21:34:33 <PenguinistaKC>	I have now forgotten the address, but I will post that to the mailing list. 
Aug 15 21:34:58 <spr0k3t>	cool... so do we have any thoughts?
Aug 15 21:35:07 <PenguinistaKC>	It is a chance for Ubunteros in KC Metro to meet and enjoy life.
Aug 15 21:35:20 <PenguinistaKC>	I will post more on the mailing list this week.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved/Declined'''"
----
==== After notes ====
'''Presented by:''' MatthewCopple <<BR>>
{{{}}}
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved/Declined'''"

== Conclusion ==
* Previous issues outlined in the August 1st implemented
** Creation of Documentation and Signing
** Team projects initialized
*** Wiki Administration to be organized by <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|Kent Seaton]]</nowiki>
*** Logo design
** Next face-to-face meeting needs further planning
* Projects covering <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Projects/ArtWork|ArtWork]]</nowiki>, expansion and development of the MissouriTeam, and Documentation
* Regional LUG meetings

----
----
CategoryMissouriTeam
