{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="display:block;">
|}

== How do I join ==
Joining the team is actually easier than it looks.  I'll help you get started so you can become part of the MissouriTeam.

=== First Steps ===
The main account you will need to have is a <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net|Launchpad.net]]</nowiki> account.  This will tie in your Wiki and group involvement into one.  If you use GPG, it will also keep your public key handy for others to use on signed documents.  The naming convention for the Launchpad account is <code>FirstLast</code>, this will also be your Wiki account page.

==== Customize your Launchpad account ====
The Launchpad account is a way to connect you to groups and teams.  Also, if you have a project in mind, it helps track your progress and connects you with other individuals with similar projects.  You can skip this part if you want, but it's highly recommended that you take the time to flesh out your account on <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net|Launchpad.net]]</nowiki>.

=== Join the Team ===
Once you have your <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net|Launchpad.net]]</nowiki> account, you can then join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-missouri|MissouriTeam on Launchpad]]</nowiki>.  Another way to find the LoCo from <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net|Launchpad.net]]</nowiki> is to pull open the "Home" dropdown menu and select People from the list.  In the search box type in Missouri and you will see the team LoCo in the list.  Once here, click on "Join this team" and you are set with Launchpad.

=== Where to from here ===
Most of steps are done, but there are some finishing touches you should consider.  First off, have you made your Wiki page yet?  Not comfortable with editing a Wiki and need some help?  Stop in on the teams <nowiki>[[http://java.freenode.net/index.php?channel=ubuntu-missouri|IRC Channel]]</nowiki> and ask for help.  We also have a <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-us-mo|mailing list]]</nowiki> you can use for assistance.  Before you are done though, you should stop in and introduce yourself to the team on the <nowiki>[[http://missouri.ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntuforums.org]]</nowiki>.

== Welcome to the MissouriTeam! ==
That's all there is to it.  Just a few things to do and you're done.

----
----
CategoryMissouriTeam
