{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="display:block;">
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''MissouriTeam Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
The meeting was called together and covered each point on the agenda.  Further discussion on the Agenda has 

'''Team Page:''' <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissouriTeam]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log(s):''' <nowiki>[[attachment:rawirclog20070801.txt]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' MatthewCopple <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

=== Members Present ===
* Matthew Copple (MatthewCopple)
* Joe Brouhard (JoeBrouhard)
* Kent Seaton (<nowiki>[[Spr0k3t]]</nowiki>)
* Milo Housknecht (<nowiki>[[Nilihanth]]</nowiki>)
* datarapper
* fivestarreject

=== Others Present ===
* John Crawford (<nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>)
* Stephen Stalcup (<nowiki>[[StephenStalcup|Vorian]]</nowiki>)
* Christer Edwards (<nowiki>[[ChristerEdwards|Zelut]]</nowiki>)

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Review and approval of 2007/7/18
* Documentation review and standards
* Signing of documentation
* Brief report on July 21 meeting and scheduling next face-to-face
* Suggested Projects
* After notes

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''20:30''', by Meeting Chair, '''MatthewCopple'''''

=== Agenda ===
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

----
==== Review and approval of 2007/7/18 ====
'''Presented by:''' MatthewCopple <<BR>>
The hilights of <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Meetings/2007JUL18| July 18th]]</nowiki> were touched briefly and approved by the initial members present.
{{{
Aug 01 20:34:38 <PenguinistaKC> OK, first order of business. Approval of minutes of 2007/7/18. Are there any objections or suggested changes?
Aug 01 20:35:27 <spr0k3t>       the only changes I see that need to be made are the inclusion of the IRC log... however, I need to get the log I created and peice it out.
Aug 01 20:35:34 <PenguinistaKC> I would like to note that since we did not get a complete log of that evening, snippets won't be available. I am logging this chat, however, so we'll have it for next week.
Aug 01 20:36:30 <nilihanth>     as long as i'm in here its being logged here too
Aug 01 20:37:20 <PenguinistaKC> OK, so other than the understanding that logs aren't available for the 18th, are there any other substantive changes to be made?
Aug 01 20:38:28 <PenguinistaKC> For the moment, we'll assume that the lack of response means there are no changes. Unless objection is made by the end of the meeting tonight, the minutes will stand approved.
Aug 01 20:38:33 <spr0k3t>       I believe everything we have gone over from the previous meeting has been implemented so far}}}
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"
----
==== Documentation review and standards ====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Documentation will be covered on the Wiki following the standards making use of templates when possible.
{{{
Aug 01 20:38:51 <PenguinistaKC> Next on the list, "Documentation review and standards."
Aug 01 20:38:54 <spr0k3t>       pretty good from the first official meeting...
Aug 01 20:39:29 <PenguinistaKC> spr0k3t, you want to lead on this? Are you just referring to the methods by which we make and record decisions, or is there something else?
Aug 01 20:39:43 <spr0k3t>       The documentation standards are something that I'm working on in the Wiki... http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissouriTeam/Projects/Documentation
Aug 01 20:41:02 <spr0k3t>       The key here is to keep the documentation for the Wiki in a structured form and inclusive of the standards for ubuntu wikis... I'm still researching this area as much as I can to make sure we don't step beyond any boundries already set.
Aug 01 20:41:38 <PenguinistaKC> At the risk of sounding legalistic, can you define what we mean by documentation?
Aug 01 20:42:14 <spr0k3t>       One goal I have for the team is to work on the enhanced loco web.  this will be the official team pages as an extension of the information found on the Wiki
Aug 01 20:42:47 <spr0k3t>       Documentation consists of information found on the MissouriTeam wiki pages and eventually the Enhanced LoCo
Aug 01 20:43:17 <PenguinistaKC> So we're talking administrivia (how the team works, project updates, etc.) as well as how-tos and such?
Aug 01 20:43:21 <spr0k3t>       Everyone is free to add/edit the pages to create a better source of documentation.
Aug 01 20:43:26 <spr0k3t>       exactly
Aug 01 20:43:52 <PenguinistaKC> OK. I apologize for the pedantic questions. I just want to make sure I'm on the same page you are.
Aug 01 20:44:30 <spr0k3t>       no problems Matt... some information needs clarification.}}}
----
==== Signing of documentation ====
'''Presented by:''' <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Official documentation and logs will be kept with a public signed key available on the Launchpad.net user pages for verification.
{{{
Aug 01 20:45:55 <PenguinistaKC> By signing documentation, I assume you mean gpg sigs?
Aug 01 20:46:00 <spr0k3t>       One process I would like to see incorporated is the use of gpg to sign official documentation
Aug 01 20:46:39 <spr0k3t>       The wiki however will be different as it keeps the information of who has modified what
Aug 01 20:46:42 <nilihanth>     !explain gpg  :p
Aug 01 20:46:56 <PenguinistaKC> GNU Privacy Guard
Aug 01 20:47:02 <nilihanth>     oh
Aug 01 20:47:03 <nilihanth>     thx
Aug 01 20:47:11 <PenguinistaKC> Symmetric Key Encryption
Aug 01 20:47:13 <spr0k3t>       nilihanth: the FOSS version of Pretty Good Privacy.
Aug 01 20:47:27 <nilihanth>     alright
Aug 01 20:47:57 <spr0k3t>       if you need help getting gpg set up, there are several documents available... but feel free to ask if you ever get stumped.
Aug 01 20:48:04 <nilihanth>     sure will
Aug 01 20:48:51 <spr0k3t>       alright... do you guys have any questions thus far?
Aug 01 20:48:59 <PenguinistaKC> Basically, we both create a public key and a private key, and share the public key. The keys are unique. You can electronically sign documents with GPG -- it will create a hash using your public key, and spit out a string of values. 
Aug 01 20:49:48 <PenguinistaKC> I can then compare the signature on the document with the public key I have on file, and if they match, I know that you signed the document and it hasn't been tampered with since you did that.
Aug 01 20:50:00 <spr0k3t>       exactly.  And to keep the public keys, we'll use Lanchpad.net as it has a very convenient way to update, create etc.
Aug 01 20:50:03 <PenguinistaKC> If the signatures don't match, then I know that you didn't sign it, or it was modified after your signature was applied.
Aug 01 20:50:34 <nilihanth>     sounds perfect
Aug 01 20:50:52 <PenguinistaKC> It is pretty darn cool.
Aug 01 20:51:02 <jbrouhard>     Exuse me while i get ready to shut down here.. we're closing the school for the night.
Aug 01 20:51:59 <PenguinistaKC> The only issue with it is that I don't think we can meaningfully sign wiki pages, since they are designed for modification, and I'm not sure how an html page (especially a dynamically generated one) could be signed.
Aug 01 20:52:00 <spr0k3t>       morning Joe
Aug 01 20:52:13 <jbrouhard>     You can't.
Aug 01 20:52:18 <jbrouhard>     Signing a HTML page require
Aug 01 20:52:20 <jbrouhard>     grr
Aug 01 20:52:28 <PenguinistaKC> We could sign logs and other text-type documents, however.
Aug 01 20:52:34 <jbrouhard>     The only way to "sign" a dynamically generated page is to encrypt the source code.
Aug 01 20:52:38 <spr0k3t>       PenguinistaKC: exactly, see my comment from previous
Aug 01 20:53:31 <spr0k3t>       Wiki keeps track of who modifies what for us... no need for signing
Aug 01 20:53:41 <PenguinistaKC> Sorry, I read your comment and it didn't register with the brain in time to stop the fingers from keying. :)
Aug 01 20:53:51 <nilihanth>     darn fingers
Aug 01 20:53:55 <PenguinistaKC> darn brain
Aug 01 20:53:59 <spr0k3t>       hahhaah
Aug 01 20:54:29 <spr0k3t>       alright, so documentation and signing looks to be in good order.
Aug 01 20:55:36 <PenguinistaKC> Let's discuss application, though. For example, we will want to sign this week's log, correct?
Aug 01 20:56:10 <spr0k3t>       of course... and when I can find the other log that was created, I'll make sure the signed version of the log is updated.
Aug 01 20:56:50 <PenguinistaKC> So then, whoever creates the log that we adopt as official would sign it -- should we also have a witness sign as well?
Aug 01 20:57:11 <PenguinistaKC> There goes my engineering mind again, always asking the questions.
Aug 01 20:57:16 <jbrouhard>     heh
Aug 01 20:58:29 <spr0k3t>       the way I see it, a single signature shows the document created as signed, any objections to parts of the document can be detailed in meetings such as these.
Aug 01 21:02:11 <PenguinistaKC> OK, the policy is that all documents created by and for the team will be signed by its creator, except for wiki pages and other media which do not lend themselves to signing. Documents that require adoption will be offered for comment and objection, and those comments/objections will be noted at the IRC meeting or the meeting where they are brought up.}}}
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"
----
==== July 21 meeting and scheduling next face-to-face ====
'''Presented by:''' MatthewCopple <<BR>>
The first meet and greet went over extremely well.  Many people enjoyed this event and more will be planned.  Times were not able to be set as there is a question on availability of the next location and times.  For all members interested in the face-to-face events, post your times and location suggestions to the mailing list.  Events will be published on the <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Events|Events]]</nowiki> page.
{{{
Aug 01 20:59:53 <spr0k3t>       so let's move on to our next point, the July 21 meeting and scheduling next face-to-face
Aug 01 21:00:04 <PenguinistaKC> OK. In order to cut down on the amount of typing everyone does, I will take votes by asking for consensus. If no one replies in the negative by the end of the meeting, the motion will be considered adopted. Is everyone cool with that?
Aug 01 21:01:36 <spr0k3t>       the impromptu meeting we had on the 21st turned out much better than I expected.
Aug 01 21:02:04 <spr0k3t>       Initially the plan was just to have the current members of the team to meet up face to face.
Aug 01 21:03:48 <spr0k3t>       I think in total we had what, 8 interested users including ourselves?
Aug 01 21:04:13 <PenguinistaKC> 6 plus four kids
Aug 01 21:04:29 <spr0k3t>       thank you, all the kids running around made it a bit blurry
Aug 01 21:08:12 <PenguinistaKC> I apologize, I have not been able to connect with Brett to find out when his dad's office will be open.
Aug 01 21:08:27 <PenguinistaKC> I will do so, however, and post some times to the mailing list.
Aug 01 21:08:38 <nilihanth>     um...forgive my ignorance, but how did y'all communicate?
Aug 01 21:09:06 <PenguinistaKC> Well, we originally set up the meeting over e-mail.
Aug 01 21:09:11 <spr0k3t>       that's fine... if need be, we can always "invade" another location like my place
Aug 01 21:09:48 <spr0k3t>       it was kind of an impromptu get together.
Aug 01 21:10:29 <spr0k3t>       I believe the thread about it is in the mailing list logs.
Aug 01 21:11:05 <PenguinistaKC> As spr0k3t said earlier, it began as a gathering to organize the Team. Then I met folks at Surplus Exchange and invited them to come along, and also invited another friend of mine who is in the business.
Aug 01 21:11:32 <spr0k3t>       turned out great if you ask me...
Aug 01 21:11:36 <PenguinistaKC> I am a rather outgoing person, so I have a habit of spontaneously inviting people to stuff. :)
Aug 01 21:11:50 <nilihanth>     do any of you know sign language?
Aug 01 21:12:01 <PenguinistaKC> I do not, unfortunately, but Joe does.
Aug 01 21:12:08 <spr0k3t>       I know very few things in sign...
Aug 01 21:12:11 <nilihanth>     lol, I imagine he does :)
Aug 01 21:12:45 <spr0k3t>       I've had to learn a bit of it, but I've never totally picked it up...
Aug 01 21:13:13 <PenguinistaKC> Here's what I would like for folks to do. Please look at your calendars and post to the list what nights of the week work best for a meeting.
Aug 01 21:13:52 <spr0k3t>       what time frame are we looking at or do you mean times for weekly meetings?
Aug 01 21:14:02 <PenguinistaKC> For this next meeting, I'm probably going to try to get a Saturday evening, because I am pretty sure Warren doesn't see a lot of clients over the weekend.
Aug 01 21:14:17 <PenguinistaKC> Face-to-face meetings, sorry...should have been more specific
Aug 01 21:14:24 <spr0k3t>       thanks, it's for the log
Aug 01 21:14:29 <PenguinistaKC> Our IRC meetings are already set for 1st / 3rd Wednesdays
Aug 01 21:15:32 <PenguinistaKC> I'll let Warren tell us when he can let us have the space, and then we can see if it works. I also have a call in to the Plaza library, and I am going to try to talk to the Jackson County Genealogical Society about using their library, near downtown Independence.
Aug 01 21:16:28 <PenguinistaKC> They do not have internet access presently, but they want to set a network up there, and I thought about maybe making some sort of deal where we could install and troubleshoot their network in return for giving us space.
Aug 01 21:16:47 <nilihanth>     sounds like a neat trade
Aug 01 21:17:07 <spr0k3t>       quite, something I would definitely help with.
Aug 01 21:17:29 <PenguinistaKC> For those who are familiar, they are in the Train Station off River Road.
Aug 01 21:17:39 <PenguinistaKC> They have half of the building, Amtrack has the other half.
Aug 01 21:17:48 <PenguinistaKC> It is literally on the "other side of the tracks."
Aug 01 21:18:23 <PenguinistaKC> It is a very nice space, with plenty of tables and chairs. I don't know about electrical outlets, which could be important.
Aug 01 21:18:44 <PenguinistaKC> But I'll talk to them and see if they are interested.
Aug 01 21:18:50 <nilihanth>     is that near the big spiral church?
Aug 01 21:18:53 <PenguinistaKC> Yes
Aug 01 21:18:59 <nilihanth>     ok, cool
Aug 01 21:19:00 <PenguinistaKC> Just down the street a couple of blocks
Aug 01 21:19:06 <PenguinistaKC> A little south
Aug 01 21:19:54 <PenguinistaKC> I'm completely open to ideas of other places in other parts of the city, so please feel free to talk to folks and see about other spaces.
Aug 01 21:20:08 <PenguinistaKC> I'm even open to rotating meetings to make it easy for folks to attend.
Aug 01 21:20:22 <spr0k3t>       for those not familiar with the area, we'll make sure we post a kmz file for google earth.
Aug 01 21:20:36 <nilihanth>     ooh, good idea
Aug 01 21:20:46 <PenguinistaKC> As we grow and get members from outside the metro, I hope we can have gatherings in St. Louis, Columbia, etc. as well.
Aug 01 21:21:06 <nilihanth>     or in Hermann during Oktoberfest? :D
Aug 01 21:21:20 <PenguinistaKC> I'm for it. What do Linux geeks like more than computers?
Aug 01 21:21:23 <PenguinistaKC> BEER.
Aug 01 21:21:30 <nilihanth>     lolorz
Aug 01 21:21:33 <nilihanth>     indeed
Aug 01 21:21:50 <PenguinistaKC> Are there any other observations?
Aug 01 21:21:55 <PenguinistaKC> On this subject, that is.
Aug 01 21:22:19 <PenguinistaKC> About meetings. Post any ideas to the mailing list, please.}}}
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"
----
==== Suggested Projects ====
'''Presented by:''' MatthewCopple & <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Projects have started but not all of them are hashed out in the <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Projects|Projects]]</nowiki> page.  It was agreed to have projects discussed on the mailing list at this time.  As projects mature, they will be presented at regional/local events.  The MissouriTeam wiki is expanding rapidly due to the efforts of <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|KentSeaton]]</nowiki> who was made the site supervisor.
{{{
Aug 01 21:23:07 <PenguinistaKC> I'm going to move on. I put suggested projects on the agenda because I was hoping to have a little more detail on the two proposals I made on Sunday night.
Aug 01 21:23:29 <PenguinistaKC> I don't have that because I've been under the weather for a couple of days.
Aug 01 21:23:30 <spr0k3t>       check on the http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissourTeam/Projects
Aug 01 21:23:35 <PenguinistaKC> I would like to note a couple of things, however:
Aug 01 21:24:09 <spr0k3t>       (I've been busy fleshing out the Wiki, sorry)
...
Aug 01 21:25:21 <PenguinistaKC> Actually, our first project, which isn't listed, is our wiki, which Kent is ably handling. Kent, would you object to being "officially" tasked as our Wiki Project manager?
Aug 01 21:25:45 <nilihanth>     I second that non-motion
Aug 01 21:26:18 <spr0k3t>       I would honored to do so.  However, I would encourage anyone interested in learning to jump in head first and ask questions as they build sections of the wiki
Aug 01 21:26:27 <PenguinistaKC> Your job would be to police our pages, update as you see the need, conscript others into updating as you see the need, make sure we meet the standards, and whatever else needs to be done to make ours the finest wiki in Ubuntudom.}}}
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"
----
==== After notes ====
'''Presented by:''' MatthewCopple <<BR>>
The final notes covered a few ideas of new projects for building the team such as an official logo.  A <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Projects/ArtWork/Logo|project page]]</nowiki> has been created to help identify the directions of the logo.  Further discussion includes thoughts of a state sponsor for the team.
{{{
Aug 01 21:28:39 <PenguinistaKC> After notes -- does anyone want to add anything before we close?
Aug 01 21:29:03 <spr0k3t>       One thing I would like everyone to think about, a logo.
Aug 01 21:29:15 <PenguinistaKC> Good point, spr0k3t
Aug 01 21:29:27 <spr0k3t>       We need to have one for the team, centric of Missouri and all.
Aug 01 21:29:35 <nilihanth>     spr0k3t, is it ok to have the official ubuntu logo included in our logo?
Aug 01 21:29:57 <spr0k3t>       nilihanth: yup, it can be used, but it must stick to the trademark policy
Aug 01 21:30:47 <PenguinistaKC> If there are folks who want to take a stab at it, go for it.
Aug 01 21:31:10 <spr0k3t>       I'll have more information on the trademarks and guidelines on the Projects pages when I can... for now, the artwork subpages have a brief idea of where we can take the team logo.
Aug 01 21:31:14 <nilihanth>     well, without any imagination included I quickly just thought of having a sillohuette of Missouri with the Ubuntu logo somehwere's on it
Aug 01 21:31:26 <nilihanth>     yeah, cool
Aug 01 21:32:07 <PenguinistaKC> I guess that a penguin stomping a dead jayhawk would probably be considered somewhat controversial. </me looks innocent>
Aug 01 21:32:15 <spr0k3t>       I'll throw the idea on the wiki... if you have a chance, pull together an example for the page.
Aug 01 21:32:18 <nilihanth>     PenguinistaKC, I love it
Aug 01 21:32:28 <spr0k3t>       PenguinistaKC: PERFECT! j/k
Aug 01 21:34:00 <spr0k3t>       ooo, almost forgot
Aug 01 21:34:16 <PenguinistaKC> go ahead
Aug 01 21:34:52 <spr0k3t>       we should look to see if we can find sponsorship for the team... preferrable a state bred organization such as UMB Banks or the like.
Aug 01 21:35:33 <PenguinistaKC> We should talk about that on the list and at our face-to-face. Hand-in-hand with that is formally organizing ourselves.
Aug 01 21:36:09 <spr0k3t>       just a reminder to everyone is all... we can get more information posted on the mailing list.
Aug 01 21:36:12 <PenguinistaKC> Having a sponsor is a great idea, or having more than one is better.}}}
'''Outcome:''' "'''Further Discussion Needed'''"

== Conclusion ==
* Previous issues outlined in the July 18th meeting have been implemented
** IRC Operators
** Ubuntu Forums and Moderators
** Meeting times and places
** Wiki Administration
** Logging IRC Meetings
** Regional Scope of LUGs
* Creation of Documentation and Signing
* Next face-to-face meeting needs further planning
* Team projects initialized
** Wiki Administration to be organized by <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|Kent Seaton]]</nowiki>
** Logo design
** Sponsorship ideas
----
----
CategoryMissouriTeam
