{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="display:block;">
|}

This is for the documentation of the MissouriTeam and the involvement in the community.  If you would like to get involved, please contact <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t]]</nowiki> for project involvement.  Information found covering a greater area than Missouri will be reviewed for relocation.

== Current State ==
Documentation is being written for various projects and information to do with the MissouriTeam.  At this time, we are working on building more information to be found on the Wiki pages.  Currently in progress include documentation and artwork.  Other components of the documentation include Headers, Footers, and Menus for the MissouriTeam Wiki pages.  If you have good editorial skills or would just like to learn more information on editing the Wiki pages, feel free to contact the members of this project.

== Wiki Naming Conventions ==
All documentation of the MissouriTeam must reside under the <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Documentation]]</nowiki> structure.  The minutes created from official meetings will reside in <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki> with the format YYYYMMMDD which will be linked to the parent category page.

----
CategoryMissouriTeam
