{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

With the <nowiki>[[MissouriTeam/Projects/ArtWork/Logo|MissouriTeam Logo]]</nowiki> in process.  It's time to look into the availability of business cards.  This is not to supercede the BusinessCards available to Ubuntu members, but cards you can use to help welcome others to the LoCo.

== Guidelines ==

One again we will be using the guidelines set by Canonical with the logo guidelines but instead of the Ubuntu logo, we will be using the logo created for the team.  An excerpt taken from the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/aboutus/trademarkpolicy|Trademark Policy]]</nowiki>

''Our logos are presented in multiple colours and it is important that their visual integrity be maintained. It is therefore preferable that the logos only be used in their standard form but if you should feel the need to alter them in any way you should keep the following guidelines in mind. It should also be borne in mind that the more you wish to vary our logos from their standard form the smaller is the chance that we will be able to approve your proposed use.''

* ''If presented in multiple colours, the logo should only use the "official" logo colours.''
* ''You may use transparency and gradient/depth tools but should retain the "official" colours.''
* ''A monochrome version may be acceptable in certain situations, if the use requires it (e.g. desktop backgrounds).''
* ''Any scaling must retain the original proportions of the logo.''

Acceptable formats will be SVG and Adobe Illustrator (SVG preferred).  The layout and design of the format will follow close to the existing <nowiki>[[BusinessCards]]</nowiki>.

== Submissions ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%" rowbgcolor="#f0f5fa" style="text-align: center;">'''Logo'''
| <:> '''Submitted'''
| <:> '''Comments'''
| <style="width: 200px;" :> '''Large Format'''
|}

----
----

CategoryMissouriTeam
