{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Approval Application for MissouriTeam Group (ubuntu-foo) ==

We are committed to increasing awareness of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) in general, and Ubuntu in particular, across the Show-Me State. If you are an Ubuntero who lives in Missouri or in a multi-state metropolis such as Saint Louis or Kansas City, you are welcome to check us out and get involved today!

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''list the date of application'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Matthew Copple <john@doh.com>
* '''Membership''' - 20 as of 1st September 2007
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-us-mo on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-missouri on Freenode

=== Roadmap ===

Here you should provide a list of things you plan on doing. Include links to where these are discussed online and on mailing lists.

* ''Install Fest'' - This initially started as a way to get the Team involved across the state, however the idea has grown significantly.  Support has been offered on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=540816|UbuntuForums]]</nowiki> and IRC even before the ink was dry.  The install fest idea is to set up install sites across the areas.  Set up remote support help in IRC for those in areas where they don't have enough help or other means prohibit their face to face involvement.  Details of this project can be gathered at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MissouriTeam/Projects/InstallFest|the InstallFest project page]]</nowiki>.
* ''Another item'' - here is another item on the roadmap.

=== Experience ===

List here acivities that the group has already done. Again provide links to online discussions, reviews, blog entries etc:

* ''Example activity'' - here I am listing an activity.
* ''Another activity'' - here is another item.
----
CategoryMissouriTeam
