{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="display:block;">
|}

The Missouri team <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|IRC channel]]</nowiki> is a place where members of our team can collaborate on projects and meet up with each other in real-time. It is also place where people in Missouri can go to find out about Ubuntu and receive support.

Location of Channel: <nowiki>[[http://java.freenode.net/index.php?channel=ubuntu-missouri|#ubuntu-missouri on irc.freenode.net:6667]]</nowiki>

Operators: <nowiki>[[JoeBrouhard|jbrouhard]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MatthewCopple|penguinistakc]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Spr0k3t|spr0k3t]]</nowiki>

== Help with Common IRC Clients ==
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GaimHowto|How to Use Gaim]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|How to Use Xchat]]</nowiki>

== Guidelines ==
An excerpt taken from <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|The Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>:

'' '''Be respectful.''' The Ubuntu community and its members treat one another with respect. Everyone can make a valuable contribution to Ubuntu. We may not always agree, but disagreement is no excuse for poor behaviour and poor manners. We might all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot allow that frustration to turn into a personal attack. It's important to remember that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one. We expect members of the Ubuntu community to be respectful when dealing with other contributors as well as with people outside the Ubuntu project, and with users of Ubuntu.''
----
----
CategoryMissouriTeam
