{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Mitchell Dzurick, hereby apply for Server package-set.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Mitchell Dzurick
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~mitchdz
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| N/A
|}

<<BR>>

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.
* I'd like to __unblock other people__ & __further help them__ get things done! \o/

== Who I am ==

== Involvement ==

=== Package Merges and Syncs ===

* exim4 (4.96-15ubuntu1) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/exim4/+git/exim4/+merge/443355|MP: 443355]]</nowiki>
* multipath-tools (0.9.4-5ubuntu1) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+git/multipath-tools/+merge/446987|MP: 446987]]</nowiki>
* ruby-dataobjects-mysql (0.10.17-4ubuntu1) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ruby-dataobjects-mysql/+git/ruby-dataobjects-mysql/+merge/448962|MP: 448962]]</nowiki>
* open-vm-tools (2:12.3.0-1) - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/open-vm-tools/+bug/2033687|MP: 2033687]]</nowiki>

=== Bug Fixes & SRUs ===

* spamassassin - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/spamassassin/+bug/1799185|LP: 1799185]]</nowiki>
** (focal) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/spamassassin/+git/spamassassin/+merge/439776|MP: 439776]]</nowiki> 
** (kinetic) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/spamassassin/+git/spamassassin/+merge/439640|MP: 439640]]</nowiki> 
** (jammy) -  <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/spamassassin/+git/spamassassin/+merge/439584|MP: 439584]]</nowiki>
* ec2-hibinit-agent (add IMDSv2 support) - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+bug/1941785|LP: 1941785]]</nowiki>
** (focal) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/443148|MP: 443148]]</nowiki> 
** (jammy) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/443147|MP: 443147]]</nowiki> 
** (kinetic) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/443146|MP: 443146]]</nowiki> 
** (lunar) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/443145|MP: 443145]]</nowiki> 
** (mantic) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/443022|MP: 443022]]</nowiki> 
* ec2-hibinit-agent (Directory created in root) -  <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+bug/2023924|LP: 2023924]]</nowiki> 
** (focal) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445093|MP: 445093]]</nowiki> 
** (jammy) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445092|MP: 445092]]</nowiki> 
** (kinetic) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445091|MP: 445091]]</nowiki> 
** (lunar) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445090|MP: 445090]]</nowiki> 
** (mantic) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445087|MP: 445087]]</nowiki> 
* ec2-hibinit-agent (locale encoding fix) - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+bug/2024505|LP: 2024505]]</nowiki>
** (focal) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445093|MP: 445093]]</nowiki> 
** (jammy) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445092|MP: 445092]]</nowiki> 
** (kinetic) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445091|MP: 445091]]</nowiki> 
** (lunar) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445090|MP: 445090]]</nowiki> 
** (mantic) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/ec2-hibinit-agent/+git/ec2-hibinit-agent/+merge/445087|MP: 445087]]</nowiki> 
* multipath-tools (update fails) - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/focal/+source/multipath-tools/+bug/2000186|LP: 2000186]]</nowiki> 
** (focal) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+git/multipath-tools/+merge/447587|MP: 447587]]</nowiki> 
** (jammy) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+git/multipath-tools/+merge/446796|MP: 446796]]</nowiki> 
** (lunar) -  <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+git/multipath-tools/+merge/446797|MP: 446797]]</nowiki> 
** (mantic) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+git/multipath-tools/+merge/446987|MP: 446987]]</nowiki> && <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+git/multipath-tools/+merge/448287|MP: 448287]]</nowiki> 
* multipath-tools (scsi3 pgr broken) - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+bug/2026881|LP: 2026881]]</nowiki>
** (jammy) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+git/multipath-tools/+merge/446796|MP: 446796]]</nowiki> 
** (lunar) -  <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+git/multipath-tools/+merge/446797|MP: 446797]]</nowiki> 
** (mantic) - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+git/multipath-tools/+merge/446987|MP: 446987]]</nowiki> 
* qemu (qemu-guest-agent does not restart on upgrade) - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+bug/2028124|LP: 2028124]]</nowiki>
** (lunar) <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+git/qemu/+merge/450831|MP: 450831]]</nowiki>
** (jammy) <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+git/qemu/+merge/450829|MP: 450829]]</nowiki>

=== Bug Triage ===

* Postfix <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postfix/+bug/2019195|LP: 2019195]]</nowiki>
* [2023-08-24] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-August/009809.html|Friday bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-08-28] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-August/009811.html|Monday bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-09-01] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-September/009818.html|Friday bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-09-08] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-September/009829.html|Friday Bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-09-15] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-September/009834.html|Friday Bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-09-22] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-September/009841.html|Friday Bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-09-29] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-September/009844.html|Friday Bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-10-06] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-October/009854.html|Friday Bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-10-13] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-October/009858.html|Friday Bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-10-16] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-October/009871.html|Monday Bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-10-27] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-October/009882.html|Friday Bug Triage]]</nowiki>
* [2023-11-03] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2023-November/009886.html|Friday Bug Triage]]</nowiki>

=== Autopkgtest & DEP8 & Testing ===

* DEP8 test for byobu - <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitchdz/ubuntu/+source/byobu/+git/byobu/+merge/442498|MP: 442498 ]]</nowiki>

=== Milestones and Exceptions ===

* open-vm-tools 12.3.0 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/open-vm-tools/+bug/2033687|LP: 2033687]]</nowiki>

=== Proposed Migration ===
* [2023-10-02] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2023-October/042818.html|+1 maintenance]]</nowiki>

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Bryce Harrington ===
==== General feedback ====

I've handed off a number of packaging items to Mitchell and worked closely with him through the process of getting them resolved.  I've been impressed with his diligence and resourcefulness, good questions, and follow-through.

I'm glad to see Mitchell applying for PPU.  It's an established adage that you know you're ready to apply for upload rights once people are surprised that you don't already have them, and well I had thought Mitchell was already PPU and am surprised!

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I had inherited a duty to maintain multipath-tools to offload a co-worker moving on to other tasks, but it was not a package I was familiar with or enjoyed working on, and had some complex packaging issues that I'd worked through about 80-90% on but it needed a bit more work and polish.  Mitchell had just recently started at Canonical but had mastered the onboarding beginner-level work and was looking for something a bit more challenging to seek his teeth into.  I offered to let him take the multipath-tools merge from me, and he enthusiastically agreed.  It turned out very well, since he could follow the work I'd done as a learning exercise as well as a puzzle to ferret out and solve the remaining issue and get the merge successfully completed.

He then used that experience as a springboard to tackle some of the other multipath-tools issues that had been orbiting the server team, and in fact has taken over the package maintenance duty entirely!  Needless to say I feel this worked out perfectly all around; multipath-tools is in much better hands.

Some of the other items I've collaborated on have been smaller in scope but I've been no less pleased in how they have turned out.  He discovered a branding regression in Apache2, solved it in an SRU and added a test case.  He's taken responsibility for several of our team's "Housekeeping" bug work priorities, currently including a MIR for enabling a more modern email authentication functionality (DMARC) in Ubuntu's email servers.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Make sure to participate in doing MP reviews (https://code.launchpad.net/~canonical-server-reporter/+activereviews); even though you may not be able to sponsor uploads I think you have enough packaging experience to be valuable as a reviewer, particularly on things in your areas of familiarity.  Getting MPs through review helps the whole team be more productive, plus reviewing other people's work is a GREAT way to learn and spread tips and techniques.  I'd suggest bookmarking that link and setting aside some specific time(s) of the week to check it as part of your general routine.

If your next step will be MOTU, then that will require a gear shift to look for work OUTSIDE your areas of familiarity, such as desktop or kernel packages, or in programming languages you don't know.  It can be challenging to find ways to make these fit alongside your regular work expectations, all I can suggest is plan ahead and be diligent at carving out time to work on it.  Importantly, for MOTU it's not just the packaging technical work; there is some social aspects to understand the various maintenance communities and the diversity of maintenance practices they've standardized on.  A good MOTU application will show you've mastered a lot of different ways of working on packages, and that you've built relationships with several of these communities.

=== Lena Voytek ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored several packages for Mitchell, including merges and fixes for spamassassin, byobu, exim4, and python2.7. Every time I review something for him it tends to be near perfect from the start, and any updates that are needed happen quickly. He has been incredibly helpful in reducing the amount of server package bugs in Ubuntu, and having package set upload permissions will help him branch out with packaging even more.
==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
When Mitchell joined Canonical I was designated as his mentor for packaging related tasks. He quickly got up to speed started fixing bugs almost immediately. I also worked with him on some initial bug triage runs, and he was able to take over the full process for Fridays which I used to be scheduled for. Now I mostly help with specific technical questions and reviews on package fixes.
==== Areas of Improvement ====
I think it would be a good idea for Mitchell to do more reviews for others. He can further his packaging skills by reviewing specific cases from our team, and with upload permissions he can help sponsor fixes from community members.

=== Athos Ribeiro ===
==== General feedback ====
As per the report in [1], I have only sponsored a single change (across many supported series) for Mitchell. That was one of the first changes submitted by Mitchell in Ubuntu and there were a few rounds of reviews for that patch.

Back then, Mitchell was already quite diligent when submitting patches and making changes. I have been involved in other discussions related to Mitchell patches, SRUs and MREs. It has been really nice to see how fast he has been picking up on all the packaging tasks a core-dev needs to perform and understand and I am glad he is applying for his PPU rights. It will be of great help to the server team and an important step on his road to getting core-dev permissions.

[1] https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=*ribeiro*&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*Mitchell*&sponsoree_search=name

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

Mitchell has shadowed me while performing specific MREs and triaging bugs related to the server packages. He is now quite proficient in doing both as per the records shown in his application. As per packaging changes, the only package I have sponsored for Mitchell is the one linked in the previous section [1].

==== Areas of Improvement ====

It would be nice to see Mitchell working in package transitions so we are sure he understands what it takes to complete one. Maybe getting MOTU right away or in a near future could be a first step towards that goal. Then, I suppose he would have all the experience and knowledge to apply for his core developer rights.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
