{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Contact Information ===
Email: 
MSN: mitch (@at) kci..net

IRC: MitchM @ irc.freenode.net

Website: http://www.devubuntu.com --- Free Ubuntu Hosting!!

Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~mitchm87

=== Computer Skills ===
Programming: Perl (Intermediate), PHP (Intermediate), Bash (Advanced), Sed (Intermediate)

Networking: Cisco -> Deal with Core Switches, PIX/ASA Firewalls, Giga Networks and Core Routers

=== Ubuntu Related ===
Stuff I've done for the community:

==== Meetings/Promotions ====
<nowiki>[[http://mitch.ubuntu-rocks.org/?p=5|BarCamp Boulder]]</nowiki>

* Presented CD's and Stickers (from Jenda) to the Computer Enthusiasts at Bar Camp Boulder

==== Current Endeavors ====
Team Lead for Colorado Local Community Team.
* Plan & host release parties
<nowiki>[[http://joey.ubuntu-rocks.org/blog/2007/10/20/good-job-colorado-team/|7.10 Release Party]]</nowiki> :: {Host}
* Organizing & host IRC Meetings
* Acting as team spokesman to local LUG's.
* Finding location, location, location for upcomming events/parties. :)
* Main Point of CD Distribution for Colorado -> Package and Handout CD's I've received from ShipIt!

==== Notable Ubuntu Contributions ====
I've been providing FREE HOSTING for all Ubuntu related projects for about 1 1/2 years.
Most Noteable Sites:
* http://UbuntuCounter.org / (ubuntucounter.geekosophical.net | Elkbuntu Project)
* http://UbuntuOS.com
* http://diy.DevUbuntu.com (Jenda / Marketing Team Project)
* http://ChristianUbuntu.com
* http://distro.DevUbuntu.com
* http://WhyLinux.com
* Backend portion(s) for http://UbuntuStats.com 

Contribute and help maintain the ColoradoTeam website.
* http://coloco.ubuntu-rocks.org

Assist users in support in #ubuntu on irc.freenode.net

Actively Market/Advocate Ubuntu
* Act as ColoradoTeam spokesperson to other teams and groups.
* Find places to distribute CDs in a friendly fashion (Starbucks | Barnes & Noble | etc.)

==== Future Goals ====
Bring the CoLoCo closer together to improve our current projection->completion ratio.

Organize the CoLoCo team for more frequent meetings/gatherings.
* Bug Days / Unconf's / InstallFests

Do more personal Bug triaging!!!
* Need to find a good time of week to spend strictly for launchpad bugs

Become an Ubuntu member.
=== Testimonials ===
* Please feel free to add your 2-cents concerning your experience with me through Ubuntu related projects!

----
CategoryHomepage
