{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Name: Mitchell Lee
Age: 20
Date of Birth: October 7, 1986
Area of Interest: Programming, Theming

Born in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Mitchell has been a problem solver from day one. One of the first things he did was attempt to take an old Mac computer appart on the first day of kindergarten, and was hooked on computers ever since. He got suspended for 2 weeks in Grade 2 for hacking the the games database to give him and a couple of his friends access to the entire network, mainly for the purposes of installing games.

Recently, after getting extremely frustrated using Windows XP and finding out how much money he had to spend just to be able to keep all his software running at a decent speed, he became upset with all the propietry of Microsoft and began looking for an alternative. After studying Red Hat Linux briefly in College, Mitchell decided to dig out his old Red Hat CD's and give it a shot. Having never really used a GUI for Linux, found Red Hat relatively hard to understand, and eventually swallowed his pride and went crawling back to windows. But he did not lose faith, after a friend of his mentioned Debian linux, Mitchell began his quest to find the perfect distro to suit his needs. He first turned to his familiar, Red Hat which to his surprise found out is Now the Fedora Project, but once again he wasn't too entralled with it. Then he turned his sites to Debian linux, and the magic of apt-get. He instantly fell in love with debian, however felt it would be better if newer releases could be counted on as well as updates. Finding Debian unreliable in these areas, he once again turned to the internet, where he stumbled upon Ubuntu. Ah Ubuntu, the most magnificant OS he had ever seen. Easy to learn and use, as powerful as debian, but far more reliable as well as the excitement of a new release every 6 months. Could this be it? 4 months later I am still a happy ubuntu user with no chance of ever going back to windows.

And as for the question of whether Ubuntu can compete with Vista or OSX? Well now that needs to be clarified better. In terms of market share, it doesn't have a hope in h***. Now in terms of power, ease of use, and functionality? Nope still no chance. For Vista. OSX, I need to use more before passing judgment, but when compared to the power hungry, resource hog, over priced, bloated OS that is Vista.
