{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
I am a Japanese Ubuntu user, and I'm involved in JapaneseTeam.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.9em; width:60%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cosmos-door]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Country / City''':
| Japan / Kawasaki
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''shibata''' on ''irc.ubuntu.com''
|-
| '''GPG''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xD9AABF28&op=index|D9AABF28]]</nowiki>
|}

== My Works ==
=== 2005 - 2011 ===
* My first contact with Ubuntu on Oct 2005.
* I joined JapaneseTeam on Sep 2007.
* I became moderator for Japanese LoCo Team Forum on 2007.
* I wrote "<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics|Ubuntu Weekly Topics]]</nowiki>" from Jan 2008 to Dec 2008. This article aim to report Ubuntu community's action for Japanese users.
* I have written about Ubuntu comunity in Nikkei Linux Aug - Sep issues, which is local magazine.
* I'm translating several documents in wiki, ubuntu-docs, other applications.

=== In oneiric ===
==== Report and research bugs ====
* Couldn't display preedit text in Dash: http://pad.lv/663776
** sent patch, and merged.
** but remain some inconvinience behavior, needs more investigation.

* Samba service is not installable: http://pad.lv/840292
** proposed two option, use apturl or sessioninstaller.
** adopted apturl way in oneiric, but its just only warkaround, because there is not apturl in debian.
** branch to use sessioninstaller is not matured yet.
** for debian and precise, we needs more improvement for samba installer.

* Ghostscript cannot recognize CJK CID fonts: http://pad.lv/853768
** there is a pathname problem in debian/rules.
** fixed in debian too.

* Unity lens button label is too narrow: http://pad.lv/856277
** sent patch, but doesn't fixed yet.

==== Hunt FTBFS ====
* Sync request for gatling: http://pad.lv/831139
* Rebuild request for geotranz: http://pad.lv/831153
* Fix multiarch header file problem for policycoreutils: http://pad.lv/832802
* Fix linkage problem for zsh: http://pad.lv/841489
* Fix multiarch library problem for scenic: http://pad.lv/852540
* Fix ld --as-needed for gnarwl: http://pad.lv/771112

==== Write articles ====
* The lecture of Ubuntu for newcomers: http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0166
* Let's make GUI application easily with Quickly: http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0193

=== In precise ===
==== Write articles ====
* Ubuntu Weekly Recipe:
** UWR 198: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/69R68VmRnmH|Xen finally came to Ubuntu]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 201: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/8UwNHrsbYXR|Arkose - Enjoy Application Sandbox Life -]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 204: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/ei3G5pnwQU3|The Unity Lenses: poweres of ten]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 208: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/2Wq2Jgsv1VA|The Ubuntu TV Show]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 209: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/EG1f4PPz25X|Search NicoNico Videos by Unity Lens]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 210: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/bqwsFavLGph|Setup Storage Service by SparkleShare]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 211: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/ZWxuFbFH8ia|Encrypt mail with GPG]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 212: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/8FfG7qoQot9|List of Git/Bazaar clients]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 215: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/bkjrBWEQd6V|Gandalf gone, Beta2 will come]]</nowiki>"

=== In quantal ===

==== Report and research bugs ====
* Sync request:
** texlive-extra: http://pad.lv/1051276
** lmodern: http://pad.lv/1051318
** tipa: http://pad.lv/1051328
** scalable-cyrfonts: http://pad.lv/1051341

* Failed piuparts at purge because does not remove pyversions.pyc: http://pad.lv/1054442
** sent patch, fixed, and applied in debian's python-minimal

* Please remove morisawa package from quantal: http://pad.lv/1058238
** removed.
* Please remove okumura-clsfiles package from quantal: http://pad.lv/1058234
** removed.

* Adding file to archive, file-roller doesn't load location correctly and then crash: http://pad.lv/1056261
** sent patch, fixed and applied in upstream.
* file-roller crashed with SIGSEGV in g_strdup(): http://pad.lv/1058475
** sent patch, fixed and applied in upstream.
* FTBFS avarice 2.10-3ubuntu1 in quantal: http://pad.lv/1058667
** sent patch, fixed.

==== Write articles ====
* Ubuntu Magazine:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.amazon.co.jp/dp/4048866893/|Vol.08]]</nowiki>: "Technique of Unity and Make Lens"
** <nowiki>[[http://www.amazon.co.jp/dp/4048910671/|Vol.09]]</nowiki>: "How to setup ownCloud with Google Drive/Dropbox"

* Ubuntu Weekly Recipe:
** UWR 226: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/LsV237jM3KJ|LXC: Light weight virtual machine]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 227: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/TVRNu2n8yME|Collect trophies by Ubuntu Accomplishments]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 229: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/Dpcpv4yFbmZ|Use Skype 4.0]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 231: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/fAvP8pBSPSu|ownCloud for my cloud life]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 232: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/6YTqC3gSSQ3|Ubuntu App Showdown]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 236: "<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0236|Try WebApps and Fogger]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 242: "<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0242|Maintain server by Zentyal]]</nowiki>"

* Talked at Open Source Conference Tokyo/Fall 2012
** "Ubuntu loves ARM": <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2012TokyoFall?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=ubuntulovesarm.pdf|PDF]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://youtu.be/EyyUOxI9lBQ|movie]]</nowiki>

=== In raring ===
==== Report and research bugs ====
* Marege from debian:
** avarice: http://pad.lv/1093297

* failed to import snack: http://pad.lv/1092117
** sent patch to fix python3 problem

==== Write articles ====
* Ubuntu Magazine:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.amazon.co.jp/gp/product/B00A6BPIA0|Vol.10]]</nowiki>:
*** "Perfect guide to install and setup Ubuntu"
*** "New knowledges you need to know"

* Ubuntu Weekly Topics:
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics/201212/14|UWT 2012/12/14]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics/201301/11|UWT 2013/01/11]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/Myotk1ft4EF|UWT 2013/01/25]]</nowiki>

* Ubuntu Weekly Recipe:
** UWR 252: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/aDZJtwaLNzL|How to use Ubuntu with convertible PC]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 257: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/8JvMvYLDvUy|Let's instant UI test by Autopilot]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 260: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/5nPZQc4Kbyr|Awesome tablet life with Ubuntu on Nexus 7]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 261: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/hqapUowZTY2|Please tap the Ubuntu on Nexus 7]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 265: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/4M7zSmU6DRe|How to deploy Ubuntu server casually]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 266: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/XijV4drFWnY|Google Reader alternatives]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 269: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/103447471927578663797/posts/HiArLCRFvmB|How to use Unity Next on Desktop]]</nowiki>"

=== In saucy ===
==== Report and research bugs ====
* Bug fix in debian and sync it:
** http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=720071
** http://pad.lv/1216010

* Sync request:
** http://pad.lv/1222455
** http://pad.lv/1222648
** http://pad.lv/1222649

==== Write articles ====

* Ubuntu Magazine:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.amazon.co.jp/gp/product/404891815X|2013 Summer]]</nowiki>:
*** Featured "Ubuntu Touch"
*** "Ubuntu for newbies"

* Ubuntu Weekly Recipe:
** UWR 273: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/HvJ2dShbVtk|New features of Unity 7]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 275: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/EZKRnzABmUm|Searcher Life with Smart Scopes]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 278: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/3vZ8riX2unq|Ubuntu Kernel with You]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 280: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/YG6iJhzrEGx|How to try Mir and XMir]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 282: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/MdWZpHUzEBw|Let's discuss with Discourse]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 288: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/eqbxzr4sdMY|Let's become a wizard of Juju]]</nowiki>"
** UWR 294: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/XXYeb6CEjST|LXC with Juju]]</nowiki>"

* Talked about Ubuntu Touch at "Open Source Conference 2013 Kansai@Kyoto".

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2013Kyoto?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=osc2013kyoto.pdf|PDF]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/ZuaopizhMD9|Movie]]</nowiki>

** By the way, I used Ubuntu Touch as slides controller in the seminar.

=== In trusty ===

==== Organized event ====

* Happy 300th Issue of Ubuntu Weekly Recipe and Topics

** Ubuntu Japanese Team held event to celebrate 300th issue of Ubuntu Weekly
    Recipe and Topics (it's japanese online column and news letter).

** https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/ezYeXAZs2sY

==== Write articles ====

* Ubuntu Weekly Recipe:
** UWR 307: "<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MitsuyaShibata/posts/jBnomuZzp6H|How to use Juju GUI]]</nowiki>"

----
CategoryHomepage
