{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

http://www.tuxgames.net/mixium
https://launchpad.net/~mixium

== My Packages ==

Working on packaging recent HP Ricoh webcam drivers for laptops.

== My Testing ==

I am currently testing Feisty Alpha 5 on Dell and HP laptops.

== My Artwork ==

I have created a few wallpapers for Ubuntu which can be found here:
http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Ubuntu-Wood?content=54737
http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=54125
http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Ubuntu+Marbles?content=54759
http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=54217
http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=54183
http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php/liquid-ubuntu-mixium-03?content=54590
http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php/liquid-ubuntu-mixium-02?content=54582

I have created a few wallpapers for Zenwalk which can be found here:
http://www.xfce-look.org/content/show.php?content=34012
http://www.xfce-look.org/content/show.php?content=43714
http://www.xfce-look.org/content/show.php?content=43713

I have also created some artwork in the past for Foresite (Wallpapers) & Binto (The overall ideas and samples for the logo).

I have done professional artwork for http://on-disk.com/

I have also created/modified the themes for several websites including:
http://www.zenwalk.org/
http://www.tuxgames.net/
http://wiki.zenwalk.org/ (not the big ugly icons)
http://zenlive.zenwalk.org/

== Prior/Present Linux Distribution Involvement ==

I am currently a Zenwalk Gnu/Linux and sub-projects administrator, coordinator, webmaster, packager, package approver, main and secondary repository maintainer, source repository maintainer, public relations contact and CD sales manager.

== Prior/Present Packages ==

Currently I have made several hundreds of packages for Slackware/Zenwalk in regards to Python-2.5, system utilities, Enlightenment DR-017 and 99% of Zenwalk's video games.

== Short Term Goals ==

My short term goals include completing my recent work on packaging drivers for the recent HP/Ricoh webcams installed for HP dv6000* laptops. I also am interested in being part of the either of the development/iso/testing/artwork teams of Ubuntu Linux. I truly believe that my time should be spent with Ubuntu to help promote Gnu/Linux in general rather then working with a Slackware clone at present. I love the philosophy, the stability, the speed and the overall aura surrounding Ubuntu. I think this is where my time and works should be invested. I hope the Ubuntu developers can find a spot for me to contribute.
