{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu One Files for Android ==

=== Available times ===

* 30+hrs weekly
** published and adjusted if neccessary on Google Calendar, shared with supervisor(s)
** 5 x 4hrs Mon-Fri, 2 x 5hrs Sat-Sun
** starting 10th of Feb, call it unlimited plan

=== Planned schedule ===

''testing'' - writing and conducting test scenarios and/or implementing tests<<BR>>

* Make U1F (AU1 re-write) feature-compatible with AndroidU1<<BR>>
** Dec 31<<BR>><<BR>>

* '''Content auto-syncing''' (both upload and download)<<BR>>
** 20 hrs
** 3 hrs testing
* '''Connection settings''' (use 3G / wifi, limit upload/download speeds)<<BR>>
** 30 hrs
** have to look into Client implementation for speed limits
** 3 hrs testing
* '''UI work''' (with help from Canonical designers)<<BR>>
** 25+ hrs
** theming (palettes, fonts), embedding graphics and icons, selectors, any animations
** (widget? 10+ hrs, depending on complexity)
*** sync on demand | sync on/off
*** status / free space
*** last updated element
*** [1 hrs testing]
* '''Disk-space management'''
** 15 hrs
** limit the amount of space the app uses
** cache/meta cleanup utility
** 3 hrs testing
* '''Publishing files'''
** 10+ hrs
** streamlined REST API to be discussed / decided upon
** testing
* '''Sharing folders'''
** 25+ hrs
** pick from contacts
** type the e-mail manually
** decide on access level
** 5+ hrs testing
* '''Service API'''
** 15 hrs
** expose:
*** public void uploadFile(final Uri uri, final String volumeId, final String parentId)
*** public void publishFile(final Uri uri, final String volumeId, final String parentId) // uploadFile + publish
** document, provide a sample app
** 3 hrs testing
* '''Ubuntu SSO'''
** (?) hrs
** use the new auth APIs
** use Authenticator Android components

=== Brainstorming ===

* '''Content auto-syncing'''<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Settings category: Sync policy<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Setting: Sync on:<<BR>>
Options: ''checkboxes''<<BR>>
- WIFI<<BR>>
- Mobile<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Setting: Frequency<<BR>>
Option: ''slider/one item selection list''<<BR>>
- 5min, 10min, 30min, 1h, 3h, 6h, daily, manual (off, i.e. on app start)<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Setting: Sync also my:<<BR>>
Options: ''checkboxes''<<BR>>
- Photos<<BR>>
- Vidoes<<BR>>
- Audio (i.e. voice notes)<<BR>>
<<BR>>
* '''Connection settings''' (limit upload/download speeds)<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Setting: Limit bandwidth<<BR>>
Options: ''slider/one item selection list''<<BR>>
Values: expressed in KB/s<<BR>>
''Note:''<<BR>>
If user has disabled background data, we should stop all background network use.<<BR>>
''Comment:''<<BR>>
Whatever connection is currently available, user can upload and download files. However,sync is invoked only if current connection is valid with Sync policy setting.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
* '''UI work''' (with help from Canonical designers)<<BR>>
* '''Disk-space management'''<<BR>>
<<BR>>
- Number of files, folders<<BR>>
- Number of favourite files<<BR>>
- Total size<<BR>>
- Synced files size<<BR>>
- Size limit in MB /slider/<<BR>>
- Delete cached files [not including synced files] /button/<<BR>>
- Stop syncing: /clickable list of synced files follows/<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Sample screen:<<BR>>
You have A files in B folders,<<BR>>
of total size XXX.<<BR>>
This includes Z synced files,<<BR>>
of total size YYY.<<BR>>
The limit for storage is ZZZ.<<BR>>
/slider/<<BR>>
To free up some space:<<BR>>
Delete unused downloaded files<<BR>>
Here/button/<<BR>>
Alternatively, selectively disable synced files:<<BR>>
/list follows/<<BR>>
* '''Publishing files'''<<BR>>
- publish from context menu (linked saved in the clipboard)
- unpublish from context menu
- list of published files (additional future feature)
* '''Sharing folders'''
* '''Service API'''
* '''Ubuntu SSO'''
