{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== karni's blog ==

=== A decent blog ===
===== Sat May  1 01:43:14 CEST 2010 =====
I really like wiki style writting/editing, but since it doesn't support RSS (anyone?), I should start a regular blog. That's why, I have moved to http://android-u1.blogspot.com/ , you are most welcome to drop by :) !

=== Chitchat at IRC & e-mails ===
===== Fri Apr 29 03:20:16 CEST 2010 =====
Since I had much course work those last days, I have only managed to follow the mailing lists and engage in conversations at #gsoc-pl about how is GSoC from a students point of view, get to know experience of others and their proposals. This is my first time at GSoC, and all guys (and girls) are really incredible. We've got fresh, motivating atmosphere all over the place :)! I have been also e-mailed by Matt, who had some experience on Android platform and will be happy to help (cheers Matt!). Along the schedule, this weekend I'm gonna get a bite of Android SDK.

By the way, <nowiki>[[www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu 10.04 LTS]]</nowiki> is out!

=== Accepted to GSoC 2010! ===
===== Wed Apr 28 02:44:03 CEST 2010 =====
And here we are, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GSoC/2010/MichalKarnicki|AndroidU1]]</nowiki> has been accepted to ''Google Summer of Code 2010''! '''Yay'''! That has actually taken place on 26th of April at 19 UTC, however it's just now that I set up this wiki.

I am happy to have Stuart Langridge as my mentor! Stuart is one of most notable Canonical employees. I was amazed to find him on <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canonical_Ltd.|Canonical wiki page]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stuart_Langridge|this wiki page]]</nowiki>, and read what a talented guy he is. We have already had a few chats on IRC concernig <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GSoC/2010/MichalKarnicki|AndroidU1]]</nowiki> project and did some brainstorming, and I'm already sure I will have great support of his whilst designing and implementing the next killer app for Ubuntu One service ;) !

It so happened, that we are just about the release of Lucid Lynx (Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, '''yay'''!) and Ubuntu One team, including aquarius, are making their best efforts to ship a high quality product really soon. That is the reason I'm not bugging them already to fill me with U1 details, but rather giving them some time to polish their work before release. Anyway, there's tons to read for me ;)

Cheers to whole Ubuntu One team!
