{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Martin Kaufmann aka Riot ==

 I am 24 years old, live in Leipzig, Germany. I complete an Apprenticeship as an Office management assistant but that wasnt my favorite job. Since iam 8 years old i spend much time with my PC (started with an 386/DX 40). I wasn't such a Gamer like some of my friends. I was always interested to find out how Things work. I started with MS-DOS, wrote some line of sourcecode in Turbo Pascal and C. At the  Age of 12 i explore one completly new and free OS names Linux. The beginning of a long friendship. I think i have tried all greater Distribution till the moment i explore Ubuntu at the 5.10 Release. One big love till today. With the 6.06 Release I start active contributions back to the Community, I give support, working for the German Event-Team and organize local Events for the Community.

=== Ubuntu related activities in 2008 ===
* Organize the first Ubuntu BBQ in Leipzig 
* Organize the local Ubuntuusermeeting in Leipzig
* Presenting Ubuntu and Edubuntu at the Chemnitzer Linuxtage and Linuxtag, Berlin
* Leading Tutorial: Introduction in Ubuntu for Newbies
* I am a member of the <nowiki>[[http://verein.ubuntu-de.org|ubuntu german association]]</nowiki>.
* Starting Bugfixing after dholbachs great Lessons at the UDW, upload first debdiffs to Launchpad
* Celebrate the first Anniversary of the Ubuntuusergroup in Leipzig
* give Support, lead newbies through their first Linux (Ubuntu) Installation

=== Ubuntu related activities in 2007 ===
* Organize the local Ubuntuusermeeting in Leipzig (first Meeting in August 2007)
* Presenting Ubuntu at the Chemnitzer Linuxtage and Linuxtag, Berlin
* give local support 

=== Promoting Ubuntu ===
 I distribute Official CDs which I got per ShipIt to many People (there where some times when i didnt have own a Ubuntu-CD for myself cause I have give them all away). I helped by the migrating from Windows to Ubuntu in 2 Companies (small Companies with 5 Workstation each). I install a new PC-Pool (17 Workstations + 1 Server) in the Companie where I currently work for (an Educational provider) with an Dual-Boot Solution Windows/Ubuntu, so that the Participants have the possibilitie to learn both. I was pleased to led a small Ubuntu Introduction in each Course in the near future. 

=== other Activities ===
* Co-Founder of the Leipzig Branch from the Linux4Afrika-Project which sends used Computer from Europe to Tanzania and Mosambique where they where used in Schools in a Terminalserver/Thinclient-Solution based on Edubuntu. Collecting more than 200 PCs in 2007/2008 and send 160 of them to Tansania in Juli 2008

=== Plans for the Future ===
* making Ubuntu more Userfriendly, Providing good HowTos, give Answers on the Questions from Newbies
* growing the local Community with Introductions in Ubuntu for People who have heard about Linux but dont know how they can smoothly migrate to
* learn more about Packagebuilding and Bugfixing to provide own Packages for the community
* Organize a Packaging and Bugfixing Jam in the City where I live
* Try to coorporate with a small Company led by friend of mine to provide PCs and Notebooks with preinstalled Ubuntu

=== Contact ===
* Jabber: riot@ubuntu-jabber.de
* irc: riot_le at irc.freenode.net
* Email:  * Blog: http://www.martin-kaufmann.net/blog (Only German at this time, English maybe later)
* GPG-Fingerprint: DD1D 268A 11CC 8EE9 484E  3173 1F70 E02D 0EC5 0D2E
