{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


----

'''I, Mate Kukri, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Mate Kukri
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mkukri]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[mkukri]]</nowiki>
|}

I am applying because:
* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I am systems programmer, and big believer in free and open source software. I keep an interest in computer and software design down to the hardware level. I strive for a future where our computers are well-designed and secure to the lowest level and respect their users freedom. I mainly enjoy working on systems software such as operating system kernels, bootloaders and firmware. I've been a contributor to the coreboot open source firmware project since 2020.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I've joined Canonical's Foundations Team in September 2023 as a maintainer of early boot software such as shim, and GRUB. I've since then became the primary maintainer of GRUB and shim in Ubuntu. I've also dabbled in fixing bugs in a number of other unrelated packages. (See link to my sponsored uploads below).

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

My previous work includes basically all bootloader uploads since November 2023, security updates, merges, bugfixes, SRUs, MIRs, upstream version updates, and the creation of some new packages (ubuntu-boot-test and python-uefivars). Please see the list below for some examples, or follow the URL to the sponsorship miner.
For signed bootloader uploads there is an explanation below.

Devel:
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/zlib/1:1.3.dfsg-3ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cryptsetup/2:2.6.1-5ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fontconfig/2.14.2-6ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libvpx/1.13.1-2ubuntu1 (soname change)
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tree/2.1.1-2ubuntu3

New packages:
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-uefivars/1.2-0ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-boot-test/4

SRUs:
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mesa/23.2.1-1ubuntu3.1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdb/13.1-2ubuntu2.1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cd-boot-images-amd64/20.4
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cd-boot-images-arm64/16.3
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bpftrace/0.21.2-1ubuntu1.1

MIRs:
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-cssselect/+bug/2048760
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bpfcc/+bug/2052813
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bpftrace/+bug/2052809

There are many more uploads I didn't list that can be seen at https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*kukri*

Signed bootloader uploads in Ubuntu follow a different process from "normal" packages:
* They are initially built in the "Ubuntu UEFI build PPA"
* They are then submitted for signing via ~canonical-signing-jobs, which is done via internal signing PPAs
* Signed binaries get copied to the "Ubuntu UEFI Proposed PPA" (which is private), they get manually checked, then copied to the "Ubuntu UEFI Proposed Public archive"
* Finally, from the "Ubuntu UEFI Proposed Public archive", they get binary copied to the main archive

Based on the above, examples of my boot uploads can be found in the following PPAs:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-uefi-team/+archive/ubuntu/build]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-uefi-team/+archive/ubuntu/ppa]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===

* My main area is the development and maintenance of bootloaders for various platforms.
* As a member of the Canonical Foundations team I also regularly participate in resolving autopkgtest regression, doing merges with Debian, SRU-ing bugfixes, filing MIRs, etc.

=== Things I could do better ===

* Document processes and software in my area so that its more transparent to others.
* Be more proactive at getting my SRUs through.
* Engage more with the community. 

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

* Spend more time on general Ubuntu packaging work outside bootloaders.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
* Popularity means many things are set in stone, so some historical (design) mistakes are hard to fix. (However working on an OS that serves so many is also satisfying).

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

=== Lukas 'slyon' Märdian ===
==== General feedback ====
I have worked with Máté as part of generic Foundations distro work, mostly package merges. Máté is an open source enthusiast and was very fast to pick up the distro work ropes after joining Foundations in 2023.

For all his (sponsored) uploads, he drives them to completion, incl. proposed-migration and keeps an eye out for bug reports after his work landed.

I sponsored 7 uploads for Máté, which can be seen from this list: <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=*rdian&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*kukri*&sponsoree_search=email|sponsored by slyon]]</nowiki>

He worked his way through several "+1 Maintenance" shifts, keeping the archive in good shape and learning about all the relationships between packages and the processes involved. I trust in his skills and decision-making in the best interest of the Ubuntu community.

'''I fully endorse his Ubuntu Core-Dev application.'''

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Besides supporting Máté's distro work (as described above) I've worked with him with my MIR reviewer hat on, when he was driving the MIRs for bpf* packages. The bpftrace situation was especially hairy, as it had to be done on short notice, to get it landed in Noble. He was driving all the MIR paperwork and improved & fixed the conerns raised during that process promptly.

He is usually very quick in his approach, maybe too quick at times. Still, if in doubt, I trust him to reach out for specific review/feedback from domain experts. I saw his proposed uploads getting better and better over time and I now feel very when I come across a sponsoring request from Máté. These days there's usually little feedback to give, besides: LGTM!

==== Areas of Improvement ====
There are always new things to learn in Ubuntu. With new powers comes new responsibilities, so Máté should learn about dput[-ng] and additional helpers, such as https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+git/ubuntu-helpers/tree/cpaelzer/.dput.d/. Furthermore, he should apply a more thorough "self-review", to avoid oversight before pushing out changes quickly. The tools mentioned before can help with that.

 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:slyon]]</nowiki> 
=== Nick Rosbrook ===
==== General feedback ====

I have sponsored several uploads[1] for Mate, including package merges and bug fixes. Mate is quick to learn Ubuntu packaging processes, and his sponsorship requests usually require little to no feedback from me. If changes are requested, Mate is always quick to follow through.

I believe that Mate is ready to be a core dev, and that Ubuntu will benefit from this.

[1] https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Nick+Rosbrook&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*kukri*&sponsoree_search=email

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I work on the Foundations team at Canonical with Mate. In addition to sponsoring some of his general distro work, I have watched him gracefully step into the role of grub maintainer. He has gained the trust and respect of those around him as he demonstrates his expertise in this domain.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Mate is always passionate and eager in his work, which means sometimes he could exercise a bit more patience. As always, there is so much more to learn, and I encourage Mate to remember to always seek ways to improve his skills, tools, and procedures.

 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:enr0n]]</nowiki> 
=== Simon Quigley ===
==== General feedback ====

At the time of writing, I have sponsored 22 uploads for Mate, 7 of which are to Main. While, just in terms of quantity, this is just barely above my standard for an endorsement, the quality and impact of the uploads, and the conversations I have had with Mate, have greatly made up for the lack of sponsored uploads.

During the 24.04 cycle, Mate took time out of his (likely hectic, at that point) schedule to not only pinpoint GRUB debconf pre-sets which Calamares-based flavors did not configure, but he pinged the right people in the right channels, when he noticed it. This interaction stood out to me in a positive way; the Noble cycle was intense, and yet, he still took the time to help us. My perspective here is not only one of an Ubuntu Developer who has sponsored his uploads, but also in my capacity as Lubuntu's Release Manager.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

(Bolded package names correspond to packages in Main, and are directly related to this application.)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Version
| Bugs
| Notes
|-
| '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libvpx|libvpx]]</nowiki>'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libvpx/1.13.1-2ubuntu1|1.13.1-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| Debian merge, only Δ is disabling LTO
|-
| '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libarchive|libarchive]]</nowiki>'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libarchive/3.7.2-1ubuntu1|3.7.2-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| Debian merge, only Δ is ++ dh_auto_test
|-
| '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/anacron|anacron]]</nowiki>'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/anacron/2.3-39ubuntu1|2.3-39ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2006589|2006589]]</nowiki>
| Debian merge, could demonstrate knowledge of cron and maintscript policy
|-
| '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cryptsetup|cryptsetup]]</nowiki>'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cryptsetup/2:2.6.1-5ubuntu1|2:2.6.1-5ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| Substantial Debian merge
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nix|nix]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nix/2.18.1+dfsg-1ubuntu1|2.18.1+dfsg-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| Debian merge
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/phpmyadmin|phpmyadmin]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/phpmyadmin/4:5.2.1+dfsg-2ubuntu1|4:5.2.1+dfsg-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2016016|2016016]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2044817|2044817]]</nowiki>
| Debian merge
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics|xserver-xorg-input-synaptics]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/1.9.2-1ubuntu1|1.9.2-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| Debian merge with many patches
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/imath|imath]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/imath/3.1.9-3ubuntu1|3.1.9-3ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| Debian merge, only Δ is !i386
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/librelp|librelp]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/librelp/1.11.0-1ubuntu1|1.11.0-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| Debian merge, demonstrates dropping part of the delta
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thin|thin]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thin/1.8.1-2ubuntu1|1.8.1-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| Debian merge, only Δ is armhf autopkgtest fixes
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ayatana-indicator-power|ayatana-indicator-power]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ayatana-indicator-power/23.6.1-1|23.6.1-1]]</nowiki>
| 
| forcesync
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ayatana-indicator-datetime|ayatana-indicator-datetime]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ayatana-indicator-datetime/23.6.0-1|23.6.0-1]]</nowiki>
| 
| forcesync
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics|xserver-xorg-input-synaptics]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/1.9.2-1ubuntu2|1.9.2-1ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
| 
| Adding documentation
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fontconfig|fontconfig]]</nowiki>
| ''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fontconfig/2.14.2-6ubuntu1|2.14.2-6ubuntu1]]</nowiki>'''
| 
| Substantial Debian merge
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cunit|cunit]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cunit/2.1-3-dfsg-2.6ubuntu1|2.1-3-dfsg-2.6ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2048086|2048086]]</nowiki>
| FTBFS fix
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kannel|kannel]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kannel/1.4.5-13ubuntu1|1.4.5-13ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| Debian merge, only Δ is MySQL 8 support
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sidplay|sidplay]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sidplay/2.0.9-7ubuntu1|2.0.9-7ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/727573|727573]]</nowiki>
| Debian merge, only Δ is a patch fixing end-user functionality
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ncurses-hexedit|ncurses-hexedit]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ncurses-hexedit/0.9.7+orig-7.2ubuntu1|0.9.7+orig-7.2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2048384|2048384]]</nowiki>
| FTBFS fix
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nat|nat]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nat/1:1.0-6.1|1:1.0-6.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| forcesync
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hiredis|hiredis]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hiredis/1.2.0-6ubuntu1|1.2.0-6ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2049188|2049188]]</nowiki>
| ppc64el FTBFS fix
|-
| '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cryptsetup|cryptsetup]]</nowiki>'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cryptsetup/2:2.7.5-1ubuntu1|2:2.7.5-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2065180|2065180]]</nowiki>
| Substantial Debian merge
|-
| '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cryptsetup|cryptsetup]]</nowiki>'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cryptsetup/2:2.7.5-1ubuntu2|2:2.7.5-1ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2065180|2065180]]</nowiki>
| Small followup to the previous upload
|}

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I wish I could see Mate around more! Many of these uploads seem to be older, so it would be great for Mate to hop into discussions more frequently.

----

'''I, Simon Quigley, fully support Mate Kukri's application to become an Ubuntu Core Developer, and believe he should be granted these rights, unblocking him in his efforts.''' -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tsimonq2]]</nowiki> 
----

=== Julian Andres Klode ===
==== General feedback ====
I have worked with Mate mostly on boot stuff and Mate has a very strong understanding of the boot space. There have also been some rather complex packaging challenges in that space as grub as a postinst script from hell... This also involves a lot of terribly complex SRUs, but also following their own special procedures with signing and getting routed via security eventually.

Mate also undertook the challenge of simplifying our image building process by getting rid of cd-boot-images and integrating it into debian-cd.

Mate also did various +1 shifts, merges, and proposed-migration items as part of the general Foundations distro work.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Every grub and shim upload. I don't have a particular strong insight into the non-boot topics I am afraid, and I can't link all the individual uploads since the sponsorship tracker tool isn't working. Simon Quigley was the opposite of that :D

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I don't see any areas of improvement for the boot work; I found the recent uploads to be flawless. I'll defer to other sponsors for the other packages uploaded.

<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
