{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== About me ==
My name is Marcelo Gutiérrez. I was born in Managua,Nicaragua, on july 26th 1984. I'm a Computer Engineer who loves FLOSS, I use Xubuntu and I know C, Python, Php, VB x), Prolog and Assembler.

=== Contact Information ===

* GPG Key: 2EA7D457
* Email: mmgc84 at ubuntu dot org dot ni
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~mmgc84
* Blog: http://taygon.com/mmgc84
* IRC: mmgc84 @ freenode
* Jabber: mmgc84 at jabberes dotorg
* Identica: http://identi.ca/mmgc84

== What about Ubuntu? ==
I barely used 8.04, I really started using Xubuntu since 8.10 and began contributing to the community in April 2009.

=== My history inside the community || According to launchpad ===

Joined <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ni||Grupo Ubuntu Nicaragua]]</nowiki> in 2008-09-24, became <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ninjas|Miembros oficiales del Grupo Ubuntu Nicaragua]]</nowiki> since 2009-06-25 and was made Admin of <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-centroamerica|Red de Grupos Locales Ubuntu en Centroamérica]]</nowiki> that very same day, 4 days later joined <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-lat|Ubuntu Latinoamérica]]</nowiki>, made Admin of <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ni-cc|Concejo Comunitario Ubuntu Nicaragua]]</nowiki> since 2010-05-30 and recently became <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ni-motw|Ubuntu Nicaragua Masters of the Web]]</nowiki> since 2011-03-23

=== Behind the mic || My lectures ===

* Quick look into the mouse hole, using Xubuntu 9.04 for an everyday use. <nowiki>[[http://mmgc84.taygon.com/?p=99|First Lecture Ever]]</nowiki> <3

* Introducing Xubuntu 9.10 at <nowiki>[[http://linuxtour.org/KarmicReleaseParty|Karmic Release Party]]</nowiki> photos <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/nacross/Krp#|here]]</nowiki>.

* Apt kid, using APT on Xubuntu at <nowiki>[[http://mmgc84.taygon.com/?p=123|Pizza Bash 1.1]]</nowiki>

* Introducing Xubuntu 10.04 at Flisol 2010.

* Introducing Xubuntu 10.10 in <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/MaverickReleaseParty|Maverick Release Party]]</nowiki> at Pizza Bash 1.10.10

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Pizza-Bash-2.1|Pizza Bash 2.1]]</nowiki> Apt kid, using APT on Xubuntu 1010

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Pizza-Bash-2.3|Pizza Bash 2.3]]</nowiki> Linux for everyday life using Xubuntu 1104

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Flisol2011/Jornadas|Linux for everyday life using Xubuntu 1104]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Loyola Linux|Linux Tour Loyola]]</nowiki>, Games & Multimedia using Xubuntu 1104

=== My UBUNTU Life || Things worth mentioning <3 ===

* Atended <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/index.php5?title=Barcamp_1.5|Barcamp 1.5]]</nowiki>

* Atended Loco team <nowiki>[[http://fitoria.net/2009/02/05/segundo-aniversario-ubuntu-nicaragua/|second anniversary party]]</nowiki>

* Atended <nowiki>[[http://emont01.blogspot.com/2009/07/primer-ubucon-centro-americano-en-el.html|First Ubucon Centroamericano]]</nowiki> @ECSL 2009

* Organized <nowiki>[[http://linuxtour.org/Bar-Camp-10.1|Barcamp 10.1]]</nowiki> and cooked Chilaquiles :)
 
* Participated organizing  <nowiki>[[http://linuxtour.org/Ubuntu-ni-tres|Loco team third anniversary party]]</nowiki>.

* Participated organizing <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NicaraguanTeam/JauntyReleaseParty|Jaunty Release Party]]</nowiki>.

* Participated organizing and giving lecture @ <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Krp|Karmic Release Party]]</nowiki>.

* Partcipated in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek_ES/openweekKarmicLog/Xubuntu|first Ubuntu Open Week in Spanish]]</nowiki> introducing Xubuntu 9.10 

* <nowiki>[[http://podcast.softwarelibre.org.ni|POSOL]]</nowiki> Founding Member x)

* Made LoCo Team Contact 2010

* Partcipated organizing Lucid Release Party at <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Pizza-Bash-1.5|Pizza Bash 1.5]]</nowiki>.

* Participated in <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/05/07/%23ubuntu-charlas.html#t01:01|second Ubuntu Open Week in Spanish]]</nowiki>, review Xubuntu 10.04 

* Coordinator of Maverick Meerkat Release Party at <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/MaverickReleaseParty|Pizza Bash 1.10.10]]</nowiki>

* Participated organizing <nowiki>[[http://linuxtour.org/Ubuntu-ni-cuatro|Loco team forth anniversary party]]</nowiki>.

* Participated organizing Natty Narwhal Release Party at <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Pizza-Bash-2.5|Pizza Bash 2.5]]</nowiki>.

* Participated in <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/13/%23ubuntu-charlas.html#t02:01|forth Ubuntu Open Week in Spanish]]</nowiki>, review Xubuntu 11.04 

* Made Loco Team Leader 2011.

=== My work outside the Ubuntu community <3 ===

* Helped volunteering <nowiki>[[http://marcel1983.wordpress.com/2009/04/27/flisol-2009-nicaragua-managua/|Nicaragua's FLISOL 2009]]</nowiki>.

* Helped volunteering and organizing <nowiki>[[http://emont01.blogspot.com/2009/06/resumen-del-primer-ecsl.html|Esteli's First ECLS]]</nowiki>.

* Helped organizing Nicaragua's <nowiki>[[http://mmgc84.taygon.com/?p=81|SFD 2009]]</nowiki>.

* Organized <nowiki>[[http://linuxtour.org/Flisol2010|Flisol Nicaragua 2010]]</nowiki>.

* Helped organizing <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Flisol2011|Flisol Nicaragua 2011]]</nowiki>.

* Organizing <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/SFD2011/Reuni%C3%B3n17-06-2011|Nicaragua's SFD 2011]]</nowiki>.

* Coorganizing Drupaleadas 2011 <nowiki>[[http://groups.drupal.org/node/156049|April]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://groups.drupal.org/node/147209|May]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://groups.drupal.org/node/156049|June]]</nowiki>.

* Volunteering DebCamp & <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf11/Teams#Networking_team|DebConf11]]</nowiki>.

* Organizing <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debconf.org/wiki/DebConf12/Bids/Managua/LocalTeam|DebConf12 Nicaragua]]</nowiki>.

=== My Plans for the Ubuntu Comunity ===

* Support Loco Team members to get approved as Ubuntu Members.

* To contribute alot more for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-ni-website/+topcontributors|Ubuntu Nicaragua Websites]]</nowiki>.

* To extend my work with <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~mmgc84|bugs]]</nowiki>. I've always been attracted to this, but haven't got the time :)

* To start <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mmgc84|coding]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~mmgc84|translating]]</nowiki> more and organize a lot of sprints :).

* To get more people involved in the Loco Community projects such as <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~debian-users|Debian GNU/Linux Users]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~difundeubuntu-ni|Difunde Ubuntu Nicaragua]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pildoras|Pildoras Ubunteras]]</nowiki> and more :)

=== Cheers ===

* Sus aportes han sido valiosos para la comunidad y ha demostrado determinación y empeño en su labor. -JorSol
* Nicaraguan community has played a really important role on Central American integration. Thanks to Marcelo and the rest, some big projects with a huge impact were possible. I fully support his membership; and I know that, with his help, Ubuntu will grow even more in Central America. - <nowiki>[[elopio]]</nowiki>

* Marcelo has worked hard for the promotion of the FLOSS ideas. He's always talking and helping about Ubuntu and free software to new people. <nowiki>[[https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/User:Yaderv|YaderV]]</nowiki> Fedora Ambassador/Package maintainer and Sugar activity developer.

* Marcelo has taken a lot of responsibilities within the Nicaraguan Ubuntu community and worked hard to organize great events, giving continuity to community's activities in general. He is always active on mailing lists, helping people, giving support and helping the community grow. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/xamanu|xamanu]]</nowiki>

* Marcelo is an action person. He does not engage in long talks about what has to be done, he just get things done. He has been in every single one of all the facets of the Nicraguan Ubuntu community for the last two or three years. From making sure there are disc to organizing events, he is doing something at everything. nacross

* If you ask for volunteers at the Community, for sure Marcelo will come up and raise his hand. It was for FLISOL 2009 I saw him for the first time working hard for the community. He has shown great dedication and commitment at the nicaraguan Ubuntu Community. He's well known inside and outside Ubuntu's community for he's always participating and contributing where is needed. In a few words, you can always count on him. <nowiki>[[http://joe74.fedorapeople.org/|joe74]]</nowiki>

* I met Marcelo back in 2009 at ECSL, and I know that he has been working actively in his community, now he is even helping with the organization of DebConf on Nicaragua. He is of great value to the community! <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DiegoTejera|di3gopa]]</nowiki>

* When you say 'ubuntu ninja' you immediately think of Marcelo. He is one of the greatest assets of this community, has been truly involved in all aspects of the community since his first day. Marcelo is not afraid of the hard work or taking on new challenges (in fact, if he lived in Soviet Russia, hard work would be afraid of Marcelo!) :D - <nowiki>[[leogg]]</nowiki> - member of the Ubuntu LoCo Council

* Marcelo is a very important piece of ubuntu-ni engine. He is involved in every aspect of the community, right now I think he is the most active member in our LoCo team. <nowiki>[[Josernesto]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Member

* Marcelo is a element piece in Ubuntu Nicaragua. For their ability, it's like a rook or knight in the Chess :) - <nowiki>[[DexterNica]]</nowiki> - CC member - Sorry for my bad English. XD

* Marcelo knows what it means to be radical, in the use of free software. I had never seen in my life someone who devoted so much love for Ubuntu. In fact, once told me a dream he had with Xubuntu. ;) <nowiki>[[Nomada]]</nowiki>

=== Still working in my info x) ===

----
CategoryHomepage
