{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== MMS context Manipulation Tests ===

* '''Test plan for component''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlans/ofono
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/Common
* '''Trunk URL''': https://github.com/rilmodem/ofono
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ofono
 
----

==== TODO ====

* This page should be re-formatted like the other sections of the test plan. The current formatting appears as if it's one giant test case.
* The tests all are focused on contexts with ''Type=mms'', however Ubuntu's version of ofono allows contexts of ''Type=internet'' to also contain MMS attributes.
* None of the tests try to change Message``Proxy or protocol.
* It should be possible to remove a Message``Proxy from a MMS or Internet context.
* It should be possible to remove a Message``Center or from an Internet context.
* It shouldn't be possible to remove a Message``Center from a MMS context. 

---

==== 1. Verify context modifiability ====

Start phone with SIM card supporting separate MMS context

Run test case List-Contexts to check out the message center of MMS context. (Context with type mms). Store the existing Message``Center to return to the working context at the end. 
<pre>
    [ /ril_0/context2 ]
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Active = 0
|-
| Name = Elisa MMS
|-
| MessageProxy = 213.161.41.57:80
|-
| MessageCenter = http://mms.elisa.fi
|-
| Username =
|-
| Protocol = ip
|-
| AccessPointName = mms
|-
| Password =
|-
| IPv6.Settings = { }
|-
| Type = mms <-- Important value
|-
| Settings = { }
|}
</pre>
Run test case set-context-property <context number> Message``Center FAKEVALUE ( Note that context numbers are 0-indexed, whereas context paths start with 1; ie. /context1 == 0, /context2 == 1, ... ).

Run test case list-contexts to check out that message center is set to FAKEVALUE
<pre>
    [ /ril_0|| /context2 ]
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Active = 0
|-
| Name = Elisa MMS
|-
| MessageProxy = 213.161.41.57:80
|-
| MessageCenter = FAKEVALUE <--important value
|-
| Username =
|-
| Protocol = ip
|-
| AccessPointName = mms
|-
| Password =
|-
| IPv6.Settings = { }
|-
| Type = mms
|-
| Settings = { }
|}
</pre>
Run test case set-context-property <context number> Type wap.

Run test case set-context-property <context number> Message``Center FAKEVALUE. You must get response "Invalid arguments in method call".  This validates that gprs_contexts of ''type=wap'' cannot have a Message``Center'' property set.

Run test case set-context-property <context number> Type internet.

Run test case set-context-property <context number> Message``Center SECOND_FAKEVALUE.  This validates that a Message``Center property can be set for a gprs_context of ''Type=internet''.

Run test case list-contexts to check out that message center is set to SECOND_FAKEVALUE
<pre>
    [ /ril_0/context2 ]
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Active = 0
|-
| Name = Elisa MMS
|-
| MessageProxy = 213.161.41.57:80
|-
| MessageCenter = SECOND_FAKEVALUE <--important value
|-
| Username =
|-
| Protocol = ip
|-
| AccessPointName = mms
|-
| Password =
|-
| IPv6.Settings = { }
|-
| Type = mms
|-
| Settings = { }
|}
</pre>
Run test case set-context-property <context number> Type mms.

Run test case set-context-property <context number> Message``Center <original value you stored in the beginning>.
