{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-vcs

=== Summary ===

The Ubuntu Mobile and Embedded will be integrating a number of new upstream components, and developing some new components.  We would like to maintain all of this source code in a consistent fashion, with distributed revision control capability.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use Cases ===

* Adilson is working on integrating a Maemo component into Ubuntu.  He makes some changes to the code and packaging, commits the changes to revision control, builds and uploads a new source package to the Ubuntu archive.  Later, he merges in new code from the upstream Subversion repository and continues his work.
* Bob is writing a new application for the UME User Interface.  He tracks his changes in revision control, and other UME developers 

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== Work in Progress ===

* `hildon-libs` was imported as a test: https://launchpad.net/hildon-libs/trunk

----
CategorySpec
