{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Goals ==
This wiki covers the bug workflow and policies for the mobile team.  This currently includes Ubuntu Netbook Remix as well as Ubuntu running on ARM processors.

The goals of this document are to:
# Establish clear guidelines for handling the workflow of bugs associated with the mobile team
# Identify relevant bugs
# Prevent missing important bugs
# Track the progress of relevant bugs

Unless otherwise specified in this document, the general <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/WorkFlow|bug workflow]]</nowiki> guidelines should be followed.

== Filing bug reports ==
Whenever possible, bugs should be created using apport.  The easiest way for doing this in graphical applications is by clicking on Help->Report a problem.  For other problems, or when the bug makes this impossible, the ''ubuntu-bug'' command can be used from the command line. For help on using the ''ubuntu-bug'' command and finding the right package to file the bug against, see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|ReportingBugs]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage|FindRightPackage]]</nowiki>.

There are additional packages unique to UNR that may be helpful to know about when filing bugs, so that the bug can be filed against the right package.  Those packages are:
* netbook-launcher
* window-picker-applet
* go-home-applet
* maximus
* desktop-switcher
* humanity-icon-theme
* webfav

Bugs concerning problems with the image would usually go against ubuntu-cdimage

== Bug Triage ==
=== Bug Tags ===
Please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Tags|Bug Tags]]</nowiki> for other general bug tags that may be appropriate.

==== ARM ====
Bugs found running on an ARM processor based systems will be automatically tagged with the '''armel''' tag by apport.  This no longer means that they are specific to Ubuntu on ARM, but could be since they were found there.

Bugs related to ARMv7 / Thumb-2 migration, compiler segfaults, or other obscure compiler internal errors should also be tagged with '''armv7'''

==== Ubuntu Netbook Remix ====
Bugs found running Ubuntu Netbook Remix will be automatically tagged with the '''ubuntu-unr''' tag by apport.  This no longer means that they are specific to UNR, but could be since they were found there.

==== Daily image testing ====
Bugs found while testing against daily builds should be tagged with the '''daily''' tag.  This is not automatically handled by apport and should be done manually.
 
=== Subscription ===
==== ARM ====
All bugs that are determined to be specific to ARM should be subscribed to the '''ubuntu-armel''' team.  For ARM bugs related to compiler issues, also subscribe Matthias Klose (~doko) and Dave Martin (~dave-martin-arm) to the bug.  More information about compiler related issues on ARM can be found on <nowiki>[[ARM-Thumb2]]</nowiki>.

For kernel bugs on imx51 (Babbage) based systems, the appropriate package to open the bug under is '''linux-fsl-imx51'''.  For Marvell Dove based systems, the appropriate package to open the bug under is '''linux-mvl-dove'''.

==== Ubuntu Netbook Remix ====
For __all__ bugs specific to UNR, the bug should be subscribed to the '''ubuntu-unr-qa''' team.  From this list, if a bug is of high, or critical importance, or if it concerns a packaging issue, the bug should also be subscribed to the '''ubuntu-unr''' team.

=== Assignment ===
Generally speaking, if you are opening or triaging a bug, you should not assign it to anyone.  Assignment should be to an individual or team who is taking ownership to ''fix'' the bug.  If you have been assigned the bug and do not intend to work on it, or do not anticipate having time to work on it, you should add a comment to the bug to reflect this and find someone else to take ownership of it, or unassign yourself.

Bugs subscribed to by the ubuntu-unr or ubuntu-armel team will be reviewed by the mobile team and assigned to the mobile team if appropriate.

There are a few exceptions to this policy:
* Bugs against the linux-fsl-imx51 package should be assigned to '''Bryan Wu''' (cooloney)
* Bugs against the linux-mvl-dove package should be assigned to '''Eric Miao''' (eric.y.miao)
* Bugs in UNR that relate to things like design and behavior should be assigned to the '''canonical-ux''' team

<pre>
Potential changes - for discussion
5. Addition of a section for Ubuntu Moblin Remix, similar to the UNR and Armel sections
* should be fairly straightforward, but bugs for now are filed against ubuntu-moblin-remix project
* should we do a ubuntu-moblin tag? Is it even needed at this point?
</pre>
