{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Use cases ===

* Hardware isn't available or is too expensive

* developing without the hardware

* QA / testing without the hardware

==== 2nd priority ====

* Verifying that the software is usable with fingers
   - Can be hiding information with your hand / finger
   - Strength of pressure
   - Might be pressing a larger area than intended

* Check that UI is looking good / sexy / correctly sized
   - mobile devices often have high DPI screens

* Load testing / robustness / continuous testing

* Ensuring that public builds actually start to save the time by developers to download and test daily images

=== Challenges ===

* DPI emulation

* Touchscreen pressure emulation

* Testing finger touches; a mouse is more precise and can be directed to smaller areas

* Probably necessary to demand to have some sort of touchscreen if touchscreen development is involved.

=== Hardware emulation ===

* Most people in the team now have access to some MID device; do we want to work on a hardware emulator like an external screen?  Do we want to have such a screen available to the wider community?

* Mass market devices are becoming available and are a nicer way to test the full stack rather than specialized hardware

* It could be a good target to actually port UME to more devices to stress test the software platform on many types of hardware; even if it doesn't test the target hardware combination, it makes sure all software components are adaptative to changing hardware combinations such as DPI, wifi chip etc.

* Does this help at all: http://www.hongkiat.com/blog/make-your-laptop-touchscreen/

=== Virtualization ===

* GL emulation?
   - Increasing number of GL apps in our builds and in upstream projects (GNOME games, eog etc. clutter enablement in general)
   - Michael found a vm-gl software project to proxy GL commands from a VM such as kvm, xen, and vmware to the host; we should package this software for Debian/Ubuntu to try it out http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~andreslc/xen-gl/
   - Riku mentionned an OpenGL ES implementation which simply send ES commands to the host GL
*** http://www.khronos.org/developers/resources/opengles/ OpenGL ES 1.0 Linux Sample Reference Implementation

* Network management is hard to test in virtual envs

* Power management is also quite hard and interesting to emulate:
   - Suspend/resume/hibernate
   - Battery/AC status
   - Brightness

* Hardware keys could be emulated by qemu or by wrappers around the Linux input system to send fake key events, or we could simply alias other keys

=== Implementation ===

* simple-mobile-builder by mvo based on ubuntu-vm-builder; we want to move to livecd-rootfs for intrepid instead of m-i-c, can we use this with vms?
