{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Installing a Mobile Nightly Build Image ===

This explains how to get one of the nightly Ubuntu Mobile images, write it to a USB drive and install it on a device. 

You will need to:
* Download the appropriate image (it can be quite large - bigger than 300MB) to Ubuntu
* Use the Moblin Image Creator program to write the image to the USB drive
** If you do not have MIC installed in your Ubuntu, find instructions here: http://www.moblin.org/howto_create-image.php
* Boot the appropriate device from the USB

=== Background ===
 
Every night a number of Ubuntu Mobile build images are created, two versions (full and core) for each chipset. The builds are named accordingly.

Currently there are two chipsets: 
* Menlow (used on the Crownbeach platform, a reference design used for development)
* McCaslin (used on the Samsung Q1 Ultra platform)

The "full" image is the more complete image and is typically the more appropriate.

(Each image has a corresponding manifest file you can view that lists all constituent packages.) 

The nightly builds are posted here: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/

This site also contains milestone builds under the "releases" link.

'''Note''': As of 2007 Nov 16, these images are all ''install'' images, not ''live'' images, which means you can't run it from the USB but must install it first.

=== Procedure ===

==== Downloading the image ====

# Open http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/
# Browse to the image you want. Images end in ".img" Manifests end in ".manifest"
# Download the image to your Ubuntu.

==== Writing the image to a USB device ====

# Launch Moblin Image Creator (MIC). 
# Insert the USB device in the Ubuntu system.
# Select Tools > Write USB.
# Browse to the downloaded image and select it to complete the write.

==== Boot from the USB ====
 1. Insert the USB.
** '''Note''': Depending on the device, it may be necessary to ensure the system's USB port is included the BIOS boot sequence.
 1. Follow prompts to install.
 

 