{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Mobile Boot Time Improvements ===
* Pretty much covered in other sessions.  
* Scott reviewed the bootchart performance and said that really the primary ways left to make boot speed faster is to drop initramfs and to make a partially monolithic kernel and blacklist the audio driver that causes a BKL to be held for 4-5 seconds.  It should be installed after X starts.

* Kernel team arrived at very similar ideas in a different session.  Also feeling that a partially monolithic kernel was a more correct answer to the boot speed issue.

==== Expected time savings ====

* 5-6 seconds for removal of initramfs
* 3-4 seconds to blacklist the audio driver and manual install after X starts.
* 3-4 seconds Remove udev settle on device but need to figure out what is breaking on device.

* Total savings 9-12 seconds.

==== Other directions ====

* Perhaps we can look at hildon-desktop or ume-gui-start startup times
 
==== Results from bootchart analyses ====
 
* The bootchart actually starts after the kernel is decompressed
* Keep an eye on the 1 sec delay at start-up
* Theoreticaly the first rc can be moved to the start of the process, with busybox
* udevsettle is not working as it's supposed to. Fixing it can bring rc2 to start about 10 sec earlier.
* Dropping syslog can give 1 to 2 sec gain.
* There's a 2 sec sleep (1 + 1) that needs to be investigated.
 
* Faster usplash (remove some sleeps)
 10:18 < ogra> lool, http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/usplash_0.5.20_i386.deb 
              http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/libusplash0_0.5.20_i386.deb

* disable udev settle

* rm S45waitnfs.sh S13pcmciautils S46mountnfs-bootclean.sh S10acpid S20exim4 S11klogd S10xserver-xorg-wacom S??sysklogd

* rm S36mountall- S37mountoverflowtmp S20checkroot.sh S20check???

* rm /etc/event.d/tty[2-6]
* Disable loading modules in moblin-applets
* Move Xorg earlier in the boot process
* Looks like acpi module is probing twice each pnp device.
* Remove modprobe and load the modules in sequence should improve a lot the boot time; blacklist the modules in /etc/modprobe.d and list them in /etc/modules
   - i915
   - ath_pci
   - usbtouchscreen
   - intelagp
   - evdev
   - snd_hda_intel (only blacklist, load manually later)

* mv S10udev S99udev

* Build modules in the kernel
 
 ----------------------------
 Is there anything common between classmate and Q1 (Same hardware)
 
** Chasing a hunch - udev is limiting itself because we load so much
 	apt-get source udev
	706 calls to modprobe - why?
 	940 devices (Debbie - Most not needed)
 	edited udev - added line about max childs running
 	edited modprobe - sh -c exec -a $@ modprobe.foo
 	named each modprobe process so it could more easily be tracked
