{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobilethemesdk
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

In order to ease the effort of third-parties to develop graphical themes we need to create a themeing SDK which will be part of the larger SDK.

Project will define/document the following:

* what a graphical theme encompasses (all images and icons associated with the desktop and "UME standard apps" except  boot splash)
* how icons differ from other themed images
* how directories are used for themeable images
* how to write/port a themeable application
* how the list of themeable images will be maintained (work flow rules? automation/registration of themed images?)
* the expected tool set and designer work-flow with respect to different types of themeable images
* clarification of the relationship with gtk and matchbox images (they are themeable, overlay approach?)
* relationship of theme approach and SDK to user-settable themes (can user themes be installable packages?)

Current images usage should be cleaned up:
* /usr/share/pixmaps should not be used since it is not themeable
* unused images (not gtk defaults) should be removed

=== Release Note ===

Using the documentation and tools available through this work third parties will find it much easier to create a custom theme for their mobile device.

=== Rationale ===

Currently many tools and tricks are needed to create a complete theme package for a mobile device. Third parties without experience will spend unnecessary time learning the details when such time would be better spent creating an actual theme.

=== Use Cases ===

A company is interested in using the ubuntu mobile platform on their new internet tablet. Naturally, they wish to brand and theme their product according to their own wishes/needs.

=== Assumptions ===

While creating this SDK we will streamline the process and tools as well

=== Design ===

Although the SDK contains mainly information on using existing tools we will also need to tweak these tools during the course of creating the SDK.

=== Implementation ===

Although the SDK contains mainly documentation on creating a theme some other parts will/might be created over time

==== UI Changes ====

Because there are so many different pieces the testing thereof becomes quite complicated. Ideally there would be a GUI app used to create a final theme package which is easily installable and/or testable/previewable. (Note that this is a long term goal)

==== Code Changes ====

The existing tools might need to be tweaked to ease use and/or expand functionality

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

In the first stages documentation will be produced to describe the current processes and note any changes needed.

----
CategorySpec
