{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Mobile Defect Process ==

This document is a basis for the process of entering defects again the various mobile builds. The table below is split into sections to help the mapping and tracking of the QA effort within the mobile teams.

=== Team information ===
'''Please edit the table below so all team information is current.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Tests performed
| Build being tested
| Team
| Results
| Defect entry point
|-
| Baseline Functional
| <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/|: UME Daily Build ]]</nowiki>
| Ubuntu Mobile QA
| <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/|: Ubuntu QA]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile|: UME ]]</nowiki>
|-
| Smoke test
| <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/|: UME Daily Build ]]</nowiki>+ Proprietary
| Intel QA
| Intel/Canonical Wiki
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile|: UME ]]</nowiki>
|-
| Moblin Compliance
| <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/|: UME Daily Build ]]</nowiki>+ Proprietary
| Intel QA
| Intel/Canonical Wiki
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile|: UME ]]</nowiki>
|-
| Unit/Baseline
| <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/|: UME Daily Build ]]</nowiki>+ Proprietary
| MSG
| Internal Wiki
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile|: UME ]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Workflow ===

For defects entered by the Canonical Mobile QA Team, all issues will be entered under the Ubuntu Mobile Edition project. From there, triage teams will research the correct placement of tasks and resources for each defect entered (upstream, also affects, etc). From here development can work on the defect and manage code through the UME project. 

This also allows current and future customers to view the defect status of issues logged against the current builds of UME.

=== Customer ===

Any issues found by customers against any internal release, snapshot, or daily build will be entered under a customer specific project. This will enable the easy separation of the defects from the UME core.

=== Future Direction ===

Once Hardy UME is released, a formal release schedule should be developed, where new builds are released in Alpha and Beta stages.

Defects found against these releases will be logged against the UME project. 

At this point the community will also be involved in the pre-release testing. The UME project will serve as their access point for all information on the UME releases, and the point of entry for all defects.

=== Summary ===
I think this method will enable current and future customers and employees with a defined process that is more easily managed. Please edit this page at will with additional information and ideas. The final copy will become the official process guide for UME.
