{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Not UME flavor, full Desktop.

== To be discussed ==

* Build infrastructure
** Native.
    - Native is safer than cross, but cross works in some cases, we will use native.
* hardware:
	- data center, count TDB depends on compile spees.  Need to test.
	Developer:
		UME Team - 5 machines.
		Kernel Team 2 machine
		Bryce for X 1 machine 
* Launchpad setup (trivial)
* Nokia port ? Looked at but not going to work for a maintainable Debian based distro.
* Toolchain
** Java
* Kernel
* Bootstrapping
* Bootloader: uboot?
* Security updates
* Which ARM flavour(s)? 11, 9, Cortex?  Endianness? (little)
** ARM V4T (ARM9) and V6 (11) would be interesting. V4 to help gather community as it's widespread.
** EABI-only (no-brainer)
** floating point support? VFP? http://tuomas.kulve.fi/blog/2008/05/17/gcc-options-and-floating-point/
** if multiple ARM flavours are to be supported, the userspace implementation should still be written to a least-common-denominator ABI/instruction set, with optimization limited to kernel/glibc builds.  Building multiple armel ports is largely untenable - spreading resources too thin
* What machine/boards?
** Who provides drivers for full SoC support?
** Is JTAG required for initial bringup, or is bringup completed by vendor?

=== Build infrastructure ===

* Number of machines not really an issue, as many as is required to build in same time as X86 based distro.

* Requirement from IS to have at least 512 MB RAM (more is nicer)

* No PPA unless we have some form of replacement for Xen

* New Marvell motherboards go up to 1 GHz / 1.2GHz dual core, should be enough; support
   DDR-2 800 MHz, so likely 
** Available in dual-core varieties as well, assuming kernel support
** not on market yet, still just sampling
** we could try getting some dev boards
** As a reference point, these would be faster by far than our HPPA buildds, which keep up fine
   
   Want as much RAM as machine can handle.
   
   - http://linuxdevices.com/news/NS6658204257.html
   - http://www.marvell.com/
 
* Will need additional porting machine(s) for developers, given lower performance

* TODO: build a package on a target ARM machine, compare build time with the
   same package on i386 and estimate the number of buildds needed
 
* We should be OK if the hardware can compare to our HPPA build systems

=== Developer hardware ===

* Who needs hardware? (Doko and lool have some hardware, may not be correct type.)

* We can consider using qemu; Riku said it gives sensible results

* distcc seems to work, if that would help improve throughput
* We could host some qemu for developers on fast hardware (Fedora is also doing this)

* No cross-compiling; not there yet. Cross compiling might bring some problems to packages like Python, during its "configure" phase.

* Does it need video output?  OpenGL support?
 
* Might need to be careful about the smaller subset of OpenGL (OpenGL ES)

=== Launchpad setup ===

* Need someone from LP

=== Nokia port ===

* Built using the Debian "arm" architecture; built in multiple flavors

* Identified that the Debian way of handling architectures makes it hard to support many ARM subarches / toolchains

* Targetted the smallest number of modified packages

* Could perhaps be a candidate chroot base to start bootstrapping Ubuntu armel, but the Debian armel port looks like a better candidate

* Nokia is doing native compilation: http://mojo.handhelds.org/
   - Feisty Fawn
   - Gutsy Gibbon
   - Hardy Heron (in progress)
 
* ARMv5EL, ARMv6EL-VFP

* CELF presentation (22MB): http://mojo.handhelds.org/files/HandheldsMojo_ELC2008.pdf

=== Toolchain ===

* Mike mentioned floating point issues in the toolchain, pre-eabi

* We need to decide on softfloat, we don't want to build packages twice; vfp gives quite better floating point performance, but is rare and not available on all chips

* Current Debian toolchain builds for ARMv4t

* Nokia has added logic in debian/rules for vfp and thumb, but it's easier for us to just set these via our default LDFLAGS/CFLAGS infrastructure

==== Java ====

  Need some...
  Will require on-going support for this.  Requires on-going support in the rest of the ports.

=== Kernel / ARM flavours ===

* Depends on which SoC we are going to support

* Interest for new and fast ARM hardware, less in older enthusiast hardware

* Likely to only support a single SoC

* ARM11 port is mainline upstream

* Amit suggested tracking Russell's tree and sub-arch tree (e.g. omap, orion)

* Debian has flavors for versatile, orion (orion5x), thecus (iop32x), and slug (ixp4xx)

* As we'll be using qemu, we should have a versatile flavor
** Qemu nowadays supports also pxa and Nokia n8x0 boards
** http://qemu-arm-eabi.wiki.sourceforge.net/ works with new eabi
* Probably still value in having userspace support for older/obtainable hardware, even if we
   never bother to provide kernel support (This would be of special interest in the LTSP community).

=== Bootstrapping ===

=== Installer ===

* Need to check Ubuntu bits in d-i of the partitioner and the bootloader

=== Bootloader ===

* We don't really want to update the bootloader which usually has hardware specific bits by the manufacturer

* If you break the bootloader, you usually break the hardware except on some rare devices

=== Security updates ===
 
* Need hardware, if officially suported no real issue, if not other steps may be required.

=== Community ===

* If we want to grab community attention, we can't focus only on the newest boards available. 
