{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap ===

Source packages need to be checked, that they behave in the same way as for the `i386` architecture; the packaging has to be checked for things like:

<pre>
ifeq ($(DEB_HOST_ARCH),i386)
  ...
endif

ifeq ($(filter $(DEB_HOST_GNU_CPU),alpha i486 hppa ia64 powerpc s390 sparc x86_64),)
  ...
endif

</pre>

have to be changed into

<pre>
ifneq (,$(filter $(DEB_HOST_ARCH),i386 lpia))
  ...
endif

ifeq ($(filter $(DEB_HOST_GNU_CPU),alpha i486 i686 hppa ia64 powerpc s390 sparc x86_64),)
  ...
endif
</pre>

Things to watch:

* debian/control: Architecture attribute. Explicit use of `i386', add `lpia'. Look at the rules file.
* DEB_XXX_ARCH is `lpia' instead of `i386'.
* DEB_XXX_GNU_CPU is `i686' instead of `i486', but better use DEB_XXX_ARCH.
* Use of `uname`
* Use of preprocessor in dpatch
* Use of linux-gnu to influence package behaviour, we're linux-gnulp, use of DEB_XXX_GNU_OS, comparing with `linux-gnu'
* inclusion of architecture specific files (include debian/vars.$(DEB_XXX_ARCH), make Debian-i686)
* building optimized libraries (i686); only one is built for lpia using the default values.
* explicit setting of compiler options -march / -mtune. The defaults should be taken.
* ...

=== List of sources which need checking ===

* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Main/RequiredLpia|main required sources]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Main/ImportantLpia|main important sources]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Main/StandardLpia|main standard sources]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Main/OptionalLpia|main optional sources]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Main/ExtraLpia|main extra sources]]</nowiki>

Universe currently is not a focus ...

* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Universe/RequiredLpia|universe required sources]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Universe/ImportantLpia|universe important sources]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Universe/StandardLpia|universe standard sources]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Universe/OptionalLpia|universe optional sources]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap/Universe/ExtraLpia|universe extra sources]]</nowiki>
