{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-pretendulator
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Document what steps are needed to get a development or test environment set up for Ubuntu Mobile, and cover what limitations there are for the two different methods -- both hardware and software.

=== Rationale ===

When working for another platform, a development and test environment are required. Ubuntu Mobile needs to provide this to make it easier for developers.

=== Use Cases ===

Fred is a developer who has just had his brother, George show him his new MID. Fred likes the look of the platform, and wants to port his FredsFunnyMail program to running on it.

Harry is a free software developer who has heard about Ubuntu Mobile, and would like to try it out. Having no money to buy hardware, he uses the software approach to try it out.

=== Design ===

Document to reasonable level the two solutions of getting and installing a development or test environment, along with the limitations of each of them.

=== Implementation ===

This will be implemented as a set of wiki pages underneath wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/DevelopmentEnvironmentDocs, with /HardwareSolution and /SoftwareSolution hanging below it.

=== Testing ===

Follow the steps for each page, and verify that it is easy to follow, and each step does the right thing.

----
CategorySpec
