{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== Images =====
* This month saw the new 2D launcher UI available in both the Freescale and Marvell images. There was lots of interest, bugs were filed and fixed, and lots of activity was generated in the community, one example can be found at http://www.linuxuk.org/2010/02/the-new-ui-for-arm-based-ubuntu-devices/.
* With the new netbook UI came the 'ubuntu-netbook' image. Support for the ARM desktop image was dropped and the team are now concentrating on a netbook experience.
* The fail to build list got further attention. Breakage that the transition to Thumb2 caused has continued to be worked. The team have arranged and participated in Thumb2 mini-sprint's and will continue to do so.
* A few troublesome packages got major attention this month including Mono and Open Office. Mono got fixes but Open Office continues to cause the team headaches.

===== Blueprint Work =====
* Work on the live-cd boot slowness landed this month. Casper, the set of scripts that are run at boot-up had a reworking which produced an overall boot speed-up of around 35%. Details can be found at http://www.linuxuk.org/2010/02/ubuntu-live-cds-now-33-faster/
* Work started on the web office and web mail integration. Nothing final landed this month but the way forward was decided. The team will support Zoho's online services, at least in the short-term.
* rootstock, the tool to generate custom root file system images got a preliminary GUI frontend.

===== Summary =====
* The team are working towards a rock solid final release and things are definitely coming together. Alpha-3 was ushered out the door and Beta-1 is just around the corner.
