{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:recovery-partition
* '''Created''':2008/12/11
* '''Contributors''': LoicMinier
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Provide a mean to install a partition offering various services such as
recovery of your system.

PROPOSED CHANGES (not discussed yet changes):

Ubiquity will gain an option to copy over the live system in a selected
partition, and copy over key information on the main installed system (e.g.
UUID of the root partition of the installed system).

Live system (casper or a new package) will be able to work in a new way: rescue
/ recovery system.

Rescue / recovery system will allow working on the main host system (perhaps to
reinstall packages, or the bootloader).  It will allow reinstalling the system,
with Ubiquity.

Optionally, Update Manager will be changed to allow updates to the recovery
partition with up-to-date packages, kernels etc. (security, stable fixes...).

Optionally, Update Manager will be changed to allow dist upgrades from this
partition.

Optionally, we will include a new tool to convert an installation from one
architecture to another (i386 -> amd64, lpia <-> i386, arm -> armel ;-).

=== Release Note ===

During installation, you may now create a recovery partition which has a
minimal live Ubuntu system providing tools to rescue or reinstall your main
system.

=== Rationale ===

Systems with Ubuntu pre-installed are shipping!  \o/
People need a way to reinstall their original operating system or do various
other tasks from a clean area: a recovery partition.

=== Use Cases ===

TBD

=== Assumptions ===

TBD

=== Design ===

TBD
You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

TBD
This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

TBD
Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

TBD
Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

TBD
Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

TBD
It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

TBD
This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

TBD
Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
