{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== Highlights =====
* The team welcomed a new platform.
* Images are becoming increasingly stable.
* Web based office support is now available.
* Testing efforts heat up.

===== Images =====
* Images have endured a turbulent time this month with several FTBFS's, packages out of sync and general breakage resulting in image generation being 'hit-and-miss'. Towards the end of the month regular images were being produced and were of good quality.
* Both iMX51 and Dove images have be plagued with sound issues. Investigations into pulse audio are still ongoing but no definitive solution, or even culprit has been identified yet.
* Open Office still caused problems this month. Working closely with ARM, the team produced and tested various fixes.
* Much testing occurred as this month saw a move from Alpha-3 to Beta-1 and Beta-2 was just around the corner. Our testing team did a stellar job of shaking out the major bugs and all images are now pretty stable.
* Big news this month was that we are supporting the OMAP platform. Coming late in the cycle the team didn't expect to have a perfect image come April 29th but efforts began to make a Beagle Board installable image available.

===== Blueprint Work =====
* This month saw the work on web office integration land in the images. This project allows documents (docs, presentations, spreadsheets) to be view online using Zoho's  web API (http://www.zoho.com). To the user, this integration is seamless. When a local document is clicked on it is sent to Zoho and a web browser is launched with the newly uploaded document, ready for editing. When finished, the user clicks the 'export' button and the document is saved back to the local device. This also works with web links and email attachments. The application also has menu entries to launch the service with an empty document. A few little items need to be resolved but essential its working fine.
* A decision was made to not carry Canola as an alternative media player this cycle. Confusion about how the project will progress upstream and some outstanding issues with the software itself meant that this will be re-investigated for the next cycle.

===== Summary =====
* Images are becoming more stable after initial hiccups, we welcomed a new platform and blueprint work is coming to an end, it must be nearly release time.
