{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

This is a list of applications that will be used in the UME release:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''App Category'''
| '''App Name'''
| '''URL'''
|-
| eBook Reader
| FBReader
| http://www.fbreader.org/
|-
| Camera Application
| Cheese
| http://www.gnome.org/projects/cheese/
|-
| Email Client
| Claws
| http://www.claws-mail.org/index.php
|-
| PIM
| Pimlico
| http://www.pimlico-project.org/
|-
| Dictionary
| Stardict
| http://stardict.sourceforge.net/
|-
| Video Conferencing
| Ekiga
| http://ekiga.org/
|-
| Browser
| Mid-browser (Mozilla/Firefox based)
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/Browser
|-
| Remote Desktop Client
| Rdesktop
| http://www.rdesktop.org/
|-
| Media Player
| Helix Based
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/MediaPlayer
|-
| IM/Chat
| Moblin Chat
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/Chat
|-
| Office Doc Viewer
| Open Office
| http://www.openoffice.org
|-
| RSS Reader
| Liferea
| http://liferea.sourceforge.net/
|-
| Clock
| Applet
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/Utilities
|-
| Calculator
| Gcalculator
| http://www.gnome.org/
|-
| Casual Games
| Foobillard, Neverball and Neverputt, Frozen bubble and gnudoku
|}

=== TODO ===

* Review for style, accuracy and completeness.
* Package the applications.
* Add links to the games.

=== Applications ===

==== Browser ====

For the browser, <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.com/en-US/firefox/|Firefox]]</nowiki> will be used. There is already efforts to reduce its footprint and currently we are running an internal version. If we need to fit the browser into a very small profile machine a possible alternative is <nowiki>[[http://www.opera.com/|Opera]]</nowiki>.
In a operational level, both are equivalent and can carry the same plugins.

The Maemo project just released a <nowiki>[[http://browser.garage.maemo.org|new browser]]</nowiki>, based on the gekko engine which is fully integrated into the hildon environment. Need to check it.

===== Plugins to be included =====

* Adobe Flash Player 9
* Adobe PDF Reader
* Java Runtime Environment (JRE)
* Media player. Currently it's being considered <nowiki>[[http://uk.real.com/player/|Helix]]</nowiki>. Possible option: <nowiki>[[http://www.mplayerhq.hu/design7/news.html|mplayer]]</nowiki>.

===== Chosen =====

* Firefox derivative mid-browser.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - No
* Uploaded - Yes
----
==== Dictionary ====

===== Stardict =====

<nowiki>[[http://stardict.sourceforge.net/|Stardict]]</nowiki> seems to be the best option so far:

====== Advantages ======

* Small
* Fast
* Flexible
* Bidirectional
* Lot's of languages available.

====== Disadvantages ======

* The interface needs work for usability and to better fit Hildon.

===== Chosen =====

* Stardict.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - Yes
* Uploaded - Yes
----
==== Email ====

===== Claws =====

The specification asks Thunderbird which is a great email application but I think that a better alternative is <nowiki>[[http://www.claws-mail.org/|Claws]]</nowiki> which is a improved version of <nowiki>[[http://sylpheed.sraoss.jp/en/|Sylpheed]]</nowiki>.

====== Advantages ======

* Lightweight
* Fairly complete
* It's already packed for Maemo so it's easy for us to integrate.
* There's a lot of plugins that we already have packaged like
** news feed
** basian filter
** spamassassin
** acpi notifier (to blink a led if an email arrives, for instance)
** smime
** clamav

====== Disadvantages ======

* None that I can point at this time.

===== Modest =====

Recently we were pointed to a new email client called <nowiki>[[http://modest.garage.maemo.org/|Modest]]</nowiki> which will become (but, as far as I can tell, there's no official position on that) the new email application for Maemo.

====== Advantages ======

* It was created for Maemo so should be fairly easy for us to integrate.

====== Disadvantages ======

* It's still under heavy development;
* It was created to be very light, adequate to a more limited hardware platform;
* Don't have all the possibilities we have with Thunderbird or Claws and I understand that it will never have as it's not the project target.

===== Chosen =====

* Claws.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - Yes
* Uploaded - Yes

----
==== Media Player ====

To be provided by Intel.
It will use a simple frontend that will talk with Helix and gstreamer working as backends.
----
==== Camera ====

There is video capture applications (like xawtv, camE), programs that can read, record and process V4L devices like mplayer and videolan which can also be used to process the stream in realtime using filters and programs like EffecTV, GePhex and snapshot applications like Camorama. I couldn't find a single application that could do what they want, so I think that we could use something like Camorama as base and add continous video processing. Maemo uses gstreammer as the backend and their camera applications (which is closed) talks to it.
* Possible applications: many (xawtv, camE, Camorama, mplayer, videolan).

===== Cheese =====

There is one application being developed for the Google Summer of Code called <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/projects/cheese/|Cheese]]</nowiki> that can be very handy.

====== Advantages ======

* It can capture video streams and stills.
* Have a plugin system that can be used, and already is, to apply effects.
* Uses gstreamer as the backend.
* It's written in GTK.

====== Disadvantages ======

* It's not complete yet but going there fast.

===== Chosen =====

* Cheese.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - Yes
* Uploaded - Yes
----
==== Ebook reader ====

===== FBReader =====

There's one FOSS champion: FBReader which is the one used by Maemo.

====== Advantages ======

* It can read a several formats like:
** fb2 e-book format (style attributes are not supported yet).
** HTML format (tables are not supported).
** CHM format (tables are not supported).
** plucker format (embedded images are supported, tables are not supported).
** Palmdoc (aportis doc).
** zTxt (Weasel format).
** TCR (psion text) format.
** RTF format (stylesheets and tables are not supported).
** OEB format (CSS and tables are not supported).
** epub format (OEB successor) (CSS and tables are not supported).
** OpenReader format (css and tables are not supported).
** Non-DRM'ed mobipocket format (tables are not supported).
** Plain text format.

====== Disadvantages ======

* Can't read DRM'ed books which can be a problem to commercial applications.
** MikhailSobolev: DRM formats are mostly proprietary and their specifications are usually very well closed

===== Mobipocket =====

A proprietary one, Mobipocket, seems to be an interesting option.
They have a closed java lib that needs an UI. That's the way it's used in PepperPad.

====== Advantages ======

* It can handle DRM'ed ebooks.

====== Disadvantages ======

* There's a very limitated number of formats supported. Currently only OpenEBook (OEB) besides itself.

===== Others =====

Only for CHM there is alternatives like xchm and kchmviewer. Not very usefull anyway.
There's others like dotReader but mostly based on its own format or use Palmdoc/plucker only.

===== Chosen =====

* FBreader.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - Yes
* Uploaded - Yes
----
==== IM ====

===== Pidgin =====

<nowiki>[[http://pidgin.im/pidgin/home/|Pidgin]]</nowiki> (formely known as Gaim) covers the specification out of the box with one exception, the Myspace IM protocol. There is a <nowiki>[[http://developer.pidgin.im/wiki/MySpaceIM|plugin]]</nowiki> in the works, still alpha quality but it is already able to:
* Sending and receiving instant messages
* Buddy list support (basic support only)
* Looking up user information (in Get Info and tooltip text)
* (Some) formatting of incoming instant messages

===== Chosen =====

* Intel's own IM application based on Telepathy.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - No
* Uploaded - Yes
----
==== Video Conferencing ====

===== Ekiga =====
<nowiki>[[http://ekiga.org/|Ekiga]]</nowiki> is the preferred application in the specification.

====== Advantages ======

* It covers the specification already.
* It's a gnome application, so should not be difficult to integrate.
* Supports STUN.

====== Disadvantages ======

* It's know to be problematic sometimes.

===== wengophone =====

A current option for Ekiga is <nowiki>[[http://www.openwengo.org/|wengophone]]</nowiki>

====== Advantages ======

* It can also work also as a IM client.
* Using the Wengo service, calls to landlines and cellphones can be done.

====== Disadvantage ======

* Interface is based on Qt.

===== Chosen =====

* Ekiga.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - Partially
* Uploaded - No
----

==== Office document viewer ====

Excluding PDF that can be read by Evince for instance, there is no FOSS software available to this kind of task but some very old filters or format converters that only could be used with very old Microsoft formats. At this moment I can foresee 2 possibilities related to FOSS software.

===== Include the appropriate filters into evince =====

====== Advantage ======

* Evince would become an universal viewer of sorts, handling all the viewing necessities in one place.

====== Disadvantage ======

* It would be quite some work to integrate, say, the Abiword filters into it.

===== Modify the Office package of choice to have a simplified, read only mode, therefor using the same application for view and edit files =====

====== Advantage ======

* I guess that would be an easier task than modify Evince.

====== Disadvantage ======

* It's inconvenient to load the office application just to view a file.

===== TextMaker Viewer =====

There will be a commercial product called <nowiki>[[http://www.officeviewers.com/|TextMaker Viewer]]</nowiki> that fits very nicely but it does not exists yet and looks like to be based on Qt.

===== Chosen =====

* This issue will require, at least for now, a double solution. Evince should take care of the files with exception of MS Office format which will be handled by OpenOffice.

===== Current status =====
* Evince
** Hildonized - Yes
** Uploaded - No
* OpenOffice
** Hildonized - No
** Uploaded - No
----

==== Casual Games ====

The specification asks for more action-packed games. Some suggestions, depending on the profile:

* All-time favorites
** <nowiki>[[http://pingus.seul.org/welcome.html|Pingus]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://supertuxkart.berlios.de/|SuperTuxCart]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://supertux.lethargik.org/screenshots.html|SuperTux]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://planetpenguinracer.com|Planet Penguin Racer ]]</nowiki> - Former Tux Racer and soon-to-be Extreme Penguin Racer
** <nowiki>[[http://www.frozen-bubble.org/|Frozen Bubble]]</nowiki>

* Card games
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pysol.org/|PySol]]</nowiki>

* Educational Games
** <nowiki>[[http://www.gcompris.net/|GCompris]]</nowiki>

* If the machine can handle
** <nowiki>[[http://openarena.ws/|Open Arena]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://tnlgame.net/|Thunder&Lightning]]</nowiki>

* Emulator
** <nowiki>[[http://www.scummvm.org/|ScummVM]]</nowiki>

There is a huge selection available. It is just a matter of choosing.

===== Tested Games =====

As a base for testing a Q1 Ultra was used which gave the opportunity for testing 3D games.

====== 3D Games ======

 All the games were adjusted to run in full screen mode whenever possible.

* BZFlag - Worked very well after reducing a bit the graphical requirements, setting Smoothing to off and Lightning to Fast.
* Alien Arena - Barely playable unless the video features are very reduced.
* Armagetron Advanced - Works very well with the default settings.
* Billard-GL - Works very well with the default settings.
* Foobillard - Works very well with the default settings.
* Neverball and Neverputt (they are two different modes of the same game) - Playable with default settings, much smoother if the textures are reduced to low quality or reflection is turned off.
* Open Arena - Works well with default settings.
* Supertux - Works very well with the default settings.
* SuperTuxKart - Works very well with the default settings.
* Planet Penguin Racer - (former Tux Racer) - Works very well with the default settings.

====== 2D Games ======

* Frozen Bubble - Works very well with the default settings.

===== Chosen =====

* In a first moment the games included will be Foobillard, Neverball and Neverputt (they are the same), Frozen bubble and gnudoku.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - No (not needed).
* Uploaded - Yes
----

==== RSS reader ====

There's plenty of them available. The more suitable ones for our needs are <nowiki>[[http://liferea.sourceforge.net/|Liferea]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/projects/straw/|Straw]]</nowiki>. Both are quite equivalent but Liferea is starting to make incursions to integrate with blogs witch is an interesting feature.
A second option is to use the one integrated into the email reader. Both Thunderbird and Claws suggested above can do it.

===== Chosen =====

* Liferea.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - No
* Uploaded - No
----

==== Clock ====

This item is just a matter of choosing what gadget would fit better into the current home applet environment as the requirements are quite common except for the fact that it requires the clock to run full screen but this should not be difficult to achieve. The original Maemo's panel clock or <nowiki>[[http://www.home.unix-ag.org/simon/files/n770/|this clock applet]]</nowiki> can do that.
Another option is <nowiki>[[http://gpe.linuxtogo.org/projects/gpe-clock.shtml|GPE's clock]]</nowiki> that is be an interesting option if the GPE PIM described below is chosen.

===== Chosen =====

* Intel's applet.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - Yes
* Uploaded - Yes
----

==== PIM ====

The <nowiki>[[http://gpe.linuxtogo.org/|GPE]]</nowiki> can provide all the PIM needs easily. Some of the projects we can make use are:

* <nowiki>[[http://gpe.linuxtogo.org/projects/GPE-Contacts.shtml|Contacts]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gpe.linuxtogo.org/projects/GPE-calendar.shtml|Calendar]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gpe.linuxtogo.org/projects/gpe-sketchbook.shtml|Sketchbook]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gpe.linuxtogo.org/projects/GPE-soundbite.shtml|Voice Recorder]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gpe.linuxtogo.org/projects/GPE-today.shtml|Today]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gpe.linuxtogo.org/projects/GPE-todo.shtml|Todo List]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gpe.linuxtogo.org/projects/gpe-timesheet.shtml|Time Tracker]]</nowiki>

After further consideration, <nowiki>[[http://pimlico-project.org/|Pimlico]]</nowiki> was the chosen one.

===== Chosen =====

* Pimlico.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - Partially. There's still issues with Contacts.
* Uploaded - Yes
----

==== Remote desktop client ====

Currently, we have <nowiki>[[http://freshmeat.net/projects/tsclient/|tsclient]]</nowiki> which is a wrapper that actually runs <nowiki>[[http://www.rdesktop.org/|rdesktop]]</nowiki> and vncviewer on demand. This covers the specification with the exception of the listed functions:

* Scaling an panning: needs to be implemented on the clients but, despite not in the upstream, this has being done before.
* Stylus to Mouse click conversion is a matter of choosing input methods. There is no consensus around this yet and some additional work might be necessary to give to the user a better visual feedback.

Note:  see the VNC viewer project below.

===== Chosen =====

* Combination of tsclient and rdesktop.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - No
* Uploaded - No

==== VNC Viewer ====

Unlike the standard VNC viewer (and rdesktop) projects, which have not been ported to Hildon, the Maemo VNC viewer project is a fully Hildonized VNC viewer that was originally implemented for the Nokia Internet tablets.  It is in the process of being ported for use on MIDs.  A preliminary package for x86-based MIDs should be available shortly.  For more information, go to the <nowiki>[[http://vncviewer.garage.maemo.org/|Maemo Garage site for VNC viewer]]</nowiki>.

===== Current status =====

* Hildonized - Yes
* Working - Yes
* Uploaded - No

=== Other suggestions - TBD ===

==== Learning Remote ====

<nowiki>[[http://www.lirc.org/|LIRC]]</nowiki> is a package that allows you to decode and send infra-red signals of many (but not all) commonly used remote controls. The most important part of LIRC is the lircd daemon that will decode IR signals received by the device drivers and provide the information on a socket. It will also accept commands for IR signals to be sent if the hardware supports this.

The PepperPad Linux UMPC has a <nowiki>[[http://www.pepper.com/forums/showthread.php?t=161|learning remote control]]</nowiki>, and it is popular.

==== Simple image manipulation ====

* Should this be integrated with the media player?

==== Offline blogging client ====

* Simple html-capable wysiwyg editor and posting tool (ftp and common blogging API's)

==== Voip client ====

* Should be the same used for video conference?
** Ekiga
** Twinkle
** OpenWengo

==== GPS software / Navigation software ====

<nowiki>[[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/GeoClue|GeoClue]]</nowiki> seens to be a good starting point and there is a <nowiki>[[http://maemo.org/news/community/view/445e8586dc43867ee22def2915ee04cb.html|Maemo port]]</nowiki> already.

==== Quick voice/audio recorder/audio notetaker ====

==== Image posting client (flickr/windows image posting wizard) ====
