{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== UME Pre-Alpha ==

The pre-alpha can be downloaded from http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/releases/gutsy/pre-alpha/

=== Known bugs, workaround and caveats ===

==== General problems ====

* The SDIO stack is not working correctly.
* Missing icons for many applications.
* Accelerated 3d support is missing leading to some games being unusable

==== Application-specific problems ====

* The system configuration utilities crash on startup.
* Contacts must be started from the command line by using `hildon-contacts` as the command
* Tasks must be started from the command line and seems to be missing hildonisation
* Cheese: requires external webcam and must be started from the command line
* foobillard and neverball must be started from the command line, no accelerated 3d.
* frozen-bubble must be started from the command line, does not display in full screen.
** It does with the command line option --fullscreen
* gnudoku must be started from the command line.
* stardict must be started from the command line.  No dictionaries are installed by defaults and displays an unnecessary icon on the marquee.

==== Missing applications ====

* dates is missing from ubuntu-mobile and must be installed by hand
