{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== General =====
* Many of the team had vacation this month, some longer than others, but none-the-less progress was strong throughout.

===== Images =====
* The start of December saw build failures on all our ARM images. With the switch to supporting the THUMB2 instruction set we saw many build failures but with some great work from the team, bootable images for the Alpha-1 release were available for the first time; a great milestone.
* Hardware failures at the build center slowed down progress initially but the backlog cleared relatively quickly leaving the team to continue on as normal.

===== Blueprint Work =====
* December was the month of spec's. All the spec's that had been agreed on at UDS last month (and a new one that wasn't) were finalized and work towards completing them got well underway. Progress on the mobile team's blueprints can be seen at <nowiki>[[http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid/report.html|this page]]</nowiki>.
* The mobile team adopted a community blueprint for this cycle, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-liquid|mobile-lucid-liquid]]</nowiki>. This spec will track the efforts to bring Ubuntu to more mobile devices.
* A 2D clutter-less netbook-launcher was made public and is available <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~launch-lite|here]]</nowiki>. After some work this was put into REVU and is currently under consideration. All dependencies for this package are in the process of being packaged for Main inclusion.
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-suspend-resume-testplan|One spec's]]</nowiki> work items were pushed out to Alpha-3.
* Progress in speeding up the live-cd boot-time was helped by the inclusion of Bootchart by default on ARM images. Major causes of slowness were <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/CasperSpeedup|identified]]</nowiki> and steps are underway to fix them were possible.

===== Summary =====
* Progress is coming along nicely but its clear that the mobile team have their work cut out to deliver for Alpha-2 and beyond. This cycle has many ambitious spec's which, if delivered, will make the Ubuntu's ARM support stronger than ever.
