{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Summary of problem:<<BR>>
- Xephyr is a root only environment<<BR>>
- Limited test resources<<BR>>
- Community requires access to application stack<<BR>><<BR>>

What is the goal for testing, what do you want to test?<<BR>>
- get testers access to virtual environment for testing<<BR>>
 - non root environment<<BR>>
- test apps like network-manager and opengl<<BR>>
- give developers access to the system for easier porting of application stacks.<<BR>>
- Barrier to access may not be reduced to 0 since UME is not ready for average user.<<BR>>
- I think that testing everything in general terms but confirmation of issues in xephyr (for now) and vm in general are important too :)<<BR>>
- On hw I think the important things to test will be those that can not be tested on vm.  Games, net access, n-m, effects (ie the flash desktop). Plus physical HW touch screen, sound, ports.<<BR>>

Possible solutions:<<BR>>
- Live CD solution suggested that may be a better solution for hardware testing such as Compiz/wifi/etc.<<BR>>
- Qemu is still the quickest and best solution for the short term<<BR>>
- Script to create KVM image is available<<BR>>

(In re virtualized opengl support, anyone know the state of http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~andreslc/xen-gl/?)<<BR>>
- rootfs builder using hooks to create x86 images from UME builds<<BR>>
- Working VM image is available now. Scheduled release for VM enabled needs to be created and organized.<<BR>>
- <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mvo/ubuntu-mobile/simple-image-builder]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<<BR>>

Roadblocks: <<BR>>
Define what can and cannot be done in VM <<BR>><<BR>>

Todo: <<BR>>
- Notify StevenK to build with a different video driver<<BR>>
- Talk to david and matt about getting Davmor2 a Q1 in the meantime<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Next step:<<BR>>
- What are the variants (mvo)<<BR>>
- Once the variants are determined tell Steve to build with different drivers<<BR>>
- Create a new flavor (ume-kvm) Yes please :)<<BR>>
