{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Ubuntu Mobile and Embedded ===

The Ubuntu Mobile and Embedded project aims to derive an operating system for mobile internet devices using Ubuntu as a base.  Sponsored by <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com|Canonical]]</nowiki> and Intel, the project has been launched at <nowiki>[[UDS-Sevilla]]</nowiki> following a <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-May/000289.html|preliminary announcement]]</nowiki> to the Ubuntu community.

We will extend Ubuntu by providing infrastructure for mobile development, with all of the necessary components integrated into the Ubuntu package archive, ready to install and run, or to tailor for custom mobile applications.

=== First MID Release ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mobile/releases/hardy/|MID Release Images]]</nowiki>
(note: the default password for the kvm image user "ume" is "ubuntu")
=== Work in Progress ===
* Mailing list: http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-mobile
* IRC: `#ubuntu-mobile` on FreeNode
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/Meeting|Weekly meeting minutes]]</nowiki>  (IRC meeting every Thursday at 16:00 UTC / 9:00 PDT)
* Technical specifications: http://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mobile
* Testing Resources/Cases: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UMEdesktop <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UMEDesktop-results| //Smoke Test Results]]</nowiki>
* Bug Tracking: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile
* Source code:
** Ubuntu branches: https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mobile/
** maemo upstream code: https://code.launchpad.net/maemo
* Launchpad packages: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mobile/+packages
* Installing UME test environment <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/HildonDesktopManualProcedure|manually]]</nowiki> (DEPRECATED).
* Installing UME test environment using the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/CreatingAnImageForUMEDevice|Image Builder]]</nowiki> (preferred).
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/FAQ|FAQ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UMEGuide|UME Guide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/moblin/|Daily builds]]</nowiki> and corresponding <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/moblin-build-logs/hardy/|logs]]</nowiki>
* How to port applications to use the Hildon framework:
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UMEGuide/ApplicationDevelopment/PortingAnAppToUME|Python example]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UMEGuide/ApplicationDevelopment/GladeWithPythonForUMEHildon|Python with Glade]]</nowiki>
* Info on internationalizing code for mobile. Two pages written independently that need to be merged:
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/I18nMobileCode]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/I18nQuickstart]]</nowiki>
* Generating bootcharts for a UME image <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/GeneratingBootchartsForUMEImage]]</nowiki>
* Reducing Boot Time of UME Image <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/ReducingBootTimeOfUMEImage]]</nowiki>

=== Preliminary Roadmap ===

The current focus is on mobile devices which tend to have a touch screen,
generous amounts of flash storage and RAM, and wireless Internet
connectivity.  These are sometimes called "Internet tablets" or "mobile
Internet devices" (MID).

==== Applications ====

We will be using existing open source applications where it is feasible to
do so, packaging them for Ubuntu where necessary.  We will fill in some of
the gaps by developing new applications if nothing suitable exists.  Our
goal is to have a basic set of applications needed to have a useful mobile
system, such as a browser, media player, system utilities, etc.

==== Kernel ====

The Ubuntu kernel team will be providing us with a suitable kernel build,
and incorporating additional drivers where necessary.  This development will
take place in our kernel git tree in concert with the other kernel activity
underway for Ubuntu 8.04.

MobileKernelSecurity talks about the process of getting CVEs into the mobile kernel.

==== Platforms ====

Our current platform targets are Intel's MID (Mobile Internet Device) platforms, code-named McCaslin and Menlow.  Examples include:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Vendor'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Platform'''
|-
| Samsung
| Q1 Ultra
| McCaslin
|-
| Elektrobit
| MIMD
| Menlow
|}
<nowiki>[[http://www.umpcportal.com/products/compareWindow.php#%5B%5B,119,99,103,97,117,116,121,106,107,108,105%5D%5D|Detailed specs  and images. (UMPCPortal)]]</nowiki>

It's worth noting, though, that everything we produce will be available for
the standard Ubuntu i386 platform as well, and anyone can play along on an
Ubuntu desktop or laptop running Gutsy/Hardy.

==== Development ====

Development tools are available in Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy) Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy) and it should be possible to do most development directly within a
GNOME environment, or with Xnest.  All of the necessary development packages are available directly from the official Ubuntu repositories.

==== UI Framework ====

The framework is based on Hildon, and integrated with Ubuntu as a
first-class part of the package archive, using a combination of packages
from the maemo repository and some snapshots from Subversion. Where we need
to modify the packages, we're importing Subversion into Bazaar and
maintaining a branch there, to simplify tracking upstream changes.

Several engineers from Nokia are helping with this effort (Thanks!).

==== Example UIs ====
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded-EmailUI| Email UI]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded-ImageViewerUI| Image Viewer UI]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded-VideoPlayerUI| Video Player UI]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded-RSSReaderUI| RSS Reader UI]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded-ChatUI| Chat UI]]</nowiki>

==== Desktop Components ====

We are exploring cooperation with the <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/mobile/|Gnome Mobile and Embedded]]</nowiki> initiative to define a set of desktop-derived
components which will be shared between the Ubuntu desktop and the UME
platform.  Our goal will be to maintain an appropriate level of code sharing
and compatibility between these environments, in order to ease maintenance
and provide a fertile base for application development.

==== Build infrastructure ====

We're using a modified toolchain in order to use different optimizations
during compilation.  These packages will be labeled "lpia" corresponding to
http://www.intel.com/technology/systems/lpia/

Daily builds for supported devices are produced, which can be used to flash
Ubuntu Mobile onto a device. More information about the daily builds can be found <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded-DailyBuilds| here]]</nowiki>.

==== Schedule ====

<nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mobile/releases/hardy/|Our first release is out]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://blog.canonical.com/|we started talking about it 24 June 2008]]</nowiki>.  We are targeting our second release with Intrepid (Ubuntu 8.10), following
similar release milestones.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidReleaseSchedule

==== Applications ====

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/UserApplicationCriteria

=== Files ===

* Presentation slides from <nowiki>[[http://embeddedlinuxconference.com/elc2008/|CELF Embedded Linux Conference 2008]]</nowiki>''':''' <nowiki>[[attachment:UbuntuMobileEmbedded.pdf]]</nowiki>

=== Related Projects ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.maemo.org/|maemo]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.moblin.org/|Moblin]]</nowiki> (Intel)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/mobile/|GNOME Mobile and Embedded Initiative]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://tree.celinuxforum.org/CelfPubWiki/FrontPage|CE Linux Forum]]</nowiki> (being merged to elinux.org)
* <nowiki>[[http://new.elinux.org|Embedded Linux Wiki]]</nowiki>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[CategoryDevelopment]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[CategoryTeams]]</nowiki>
