{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== This Page is obsolete.  The Ubuntu Mobile Team was renamed/retasked as the Ubuntu ARM Team ==
See <nowiki>[[ARM|ARM Team]]</nowiki>
== Ubuntu Mobile Team ==
The Ubuntu Mobile Team is responsible for delivering the <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Mobile|Ubuntu Mobile Project]]</nowiki>, This is built from many component projects, most of which are built by free software developers around the world. We select the best available packages for the job, and mold them into a clean, free, well-integrated system, making changes where required to meet our high standards of quality and ease of use. We work with developers in the free software community to support their interests as well as Ubuntu's.
=== Members ===

See the team page on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mobile/+members | launchpad]]</nowiki>

==== Joining the Team ====

All are welcome to join the Mobile Team.  We ask that you first contribute some code, patches, artwork, documentation, or similar to efforts of the Mobile Team, and that these contributions have been accepted into the archives.

At this point, add yourself to the next meeting agenda as a candidate, and the members of mobile-core-dev will discuss your activity, and if all vote positive, you'll be added as a member of the team.

Any work done to assist the Mobile Team is considered as activity towards <nowiki>[[Membership | Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki> as well

=== Meetings ===
Meetings are held every Tuesday at 13:00 UTC. A full list of previous meetings can be found here: <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting| Meetings]]</nowiki>

=== Monthly Reports ===
Monthly activity of the team is summarized here: <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-TeamReport | Reports]]</nowiki>

=== General Information ===
==== Bug Triage ====
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/BugWorkflow|Bug Work Flow]]</nowiki>
==== All Bugs ====
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-armel|~ubuntu-armel]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~canonical-mobile|~canonical-mobile]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-unr|~ubuntu-unr]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

==== Fail to build list (ftbfs) ====
<nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/ftbfs/|Fail list]]</nowiki>

==== Build Farm Status ====
<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/builders|Builders]]</nowiki>

=== Release Targeted Information: Lucid ===
==== Work Items (Roadmap) ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html|Burndown chart]]</nowiki>

==== Bugs ====
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.subscriber=canonical-mobile|~canonical-mobile]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.subscriber=ubuntu-armel|~ubuntu-armel]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.subscriber=ubuntu-unr|~ubuntu-unr]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

=== Obsolete Projects ===
 <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Mobile-| Mobile Project]]</nowiki> (no longer maintained)

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
