{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

----
== Christian Parent ==

I am a 40 years old retired military who served for over 22 years. I have always been into computers starting when we got our powerful TI-99/A. I have learned BASIC and was aiming for a programmer career until I heard the call for adventure and decided to join the Canadian Armed Forces as a crewman.

After 10 years of fun in tanks, I decided to change trade and opt for being an Electronic Technician.

Now that I am retired, I have plenty of time to give to Ubuntu, to learn it, share it and promote it.

=== Contact ===

* IRC: Mobidoy on irc.freenode.net
* Email: christian.parent01 @ gmail dot com
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mobidoy|Mobidoy]]</nowiki>

=== Summary of contributions ===

* Member of Ubuntu Quebec Loco team
* <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/nekohayo/UbuntuMaverickReleasePartyMontreal#5528139663762473522|Maverick Meerkat Release party]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://blog.cyphermox.net/2011/03/this-weekends-geekfest-in-montreal.html|Montréal Geek Fest Ubuntu Table]]</nowiki>
* Participate in (Extended) Ubuntu Hours
* Promote Ubuntu and free/ opensource software to my community and to companies in my area
* Active participant on the <nowiki>[[http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/10/11/%23ubuntu-qc.html|IRC #ubuntu-qc]]</nowiki>
* Active participant on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-qc.124361.n3.nabble.com/template/NamlServlet.jtp?macro=user_nodes&user=300537|Ubuntu Quebec Mailing list]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-qc.124361.n3.nabble.com/template/NamlServlet.jtp?macro=user_nodes&user=232539|also from me]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===

I am an active member of the Ubuntu Quebec loco team and have represented it to computer/software related events. I am also present at the <nowiki>[[Hour|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> in Longueuil (Quebec, Canada) which is held on Wednesday night from 7:00pm to 8:00 pm but I often extend it from 2:00pm to 9:00pm. Most of the time I will also be present at the Outremont Ubuntu Hour held by <nowiki>[[MagicFab|Fabian Rodriguez]]</nowiki> every Friday from 12:00pm to 1:00pm.

I am always willing to help others with their computer/Ubuntu related issues and try to be on the IRC channel (#ubuntu-qc) as often as possible. 

I have promoted the benefits of using Ubuntu at work for all of the needs a company could have. I have managed to get one to switch all of their computers and their server on Ubuntu. I help them learn it and maintain it.

=== Future Plans ===

I am trying to set up an !InstallFest in a local college. I would also like to be able to hold an Ubuntu Quebec tour where we would go to events all over the Quebec Province and show Ubuntu to visitors.

I am learning Python so one day I can help with bug hunting.

=== Testimonials ===

* For the past 6-7 months or so that I have known Christian aka Mobidoy he has always been full of energy and willingness to learn. He is often in #ubuntu-qc helping users with problems. He is the most active Ubuntu Hour participant and is even willing to come pick you up and give you a ride if you need it. Just a great guy. +1 for Ubuntu membership <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:idleone]]</nowiki>
* Christian is an incredible asset to Ubuntu Québec. He's a very good advocate of Ubuntu and free open source software in general. Curious, meticulous and friendly is a rare combination that makes him essential at events, where we often count with his presence. He's also of tremendous help with new users that come to IRC, the mailing list and the forums. Christian knows a lot about hardware which has helped several people choose their Ubuntu rig (including me). I once presented in Quebec city and he came by (6hr round trip) just to hear more about Ubuntu and meet more Ubuntu Quebec fans :) Huge +1 from me - MagicFab
