{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:umehardwareemulator
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Due to the nature of the Ubuntu Mobile and Embedded project, one can't expect to aways have the target hardware available beforehand. A standard but flexible enough emulator is necessary to help developers step up and work without the constant need for new hardware.

=== Rationale ===

When working for another platform, a development and test environment are required. Ubuntu Mobile needs to provide this to make it easier for developers.

=== Use Cases ===

Fred is a developer who has just had his brother, George show him his new MID. Fred likes the look of the platform, and wants to port his FredsFunnyMail program to running on it.

Harry is a free software developer who has heard about Ubuntu Mobile, and would like to try it out. Having no money to buy hardware, he uses the software approach to try it out.

=== Design ===

Take a look at:
* Xoo
* Xephyr
* QEMU

=== Implementation ===

=== Testing ===

----
CategorySpec
