{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== How to better coordinate UM&E and USG efforts? ===
Problem also involves syncing with distro and customer's requirements and schedules. <<BR>>
Idea is to do the next release in sync with Intrepid <<BR>>

USG needs drivers faster: customers see drivers posted by e.g. Intel and want them immediately <<BR>>

Drivers can either be updated blindly, or carefully checked; for USG updates, we would be ok with the former, for Ubuntu we need the later <<BR>>

It would make the work to update Ubuntu faster if we had the history/changelog information around the changes by Intel between releases and in shared components (e.g. libdrm). <<BR>>

Shouldn't update go via xorg instead of being dropped directly on our side?  For example Intel could maintain a tree at freedesktop.org, or a public git tree on their site. <<BR>>

Ideally UM&E provides a qualified base release that Solutions group can layer onto. <<BR>>

Need to coordinate planning around the Hardy dot release <<BR>>

Coordinate schedule after RC for Intel SOW: <<BR>>
* USG team builds on RC and qualifies with customer additions and device <<BR>>
* identify issues to be resolved in conjunction with Hardy dot release update <<BR>>

Use weekly open IRC meeting to escalate USG issues and solutions <<BR>>
Provide more influence based on actual customer needs <<BR>>
Mention ongoing research / work during IRC meetings? <<BR>>

Discussion around Intel graphics  <<BR>>
Changelog / history not made available; not clear which snapshot of e.g. libdrm Intel starts from <<BR>>
Need to test with latest drivers right way conflicts with process to validate the changes <<BR>>

Moblin work to track, connman, power, boot, etc <<BR>>

Reporting on the mobile list by the USG is really a helpful overview of the work in the team <<BR>>

USG to publish more changes directly to public trees, e.g. Launchpad bzr branches <<BR>>
