{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Smaller device than a typical laptop, but not as small as a mobile device -- a la EEE <<BR>>

OEMs using Intel low power chip sets, i.e. Diamondville, Menlow (Centrino Atom) <<BR>>

MSG already started some work on these devices (very early). <<BR>>

Ubuntu desktop with some customisations <<BR>>
Other changes for boot time, boot experience, power management, wwan radios, etc. <<BR>>

Take 8.04 with minimum changes to it for the netbook.  Launcher instead of menus. <<BR>>

3 or 4 packages changing gconf settings. <<BR>>

New windows switcher, "picker" more compact. <<BR>>
Windows are maximized by default but the user can change that (uses Devil's Pie). <<BR>>
Clutter-based launcher <<BR>>
In some cases it can be easier to make a port from maemo than from ubuntu. <<BR>>

Typical screen size is 1024x600 <<BR>>
Many applications do not work inside the vertical space <<BR>>
Should applications be modified and changes submitted upstream <<BR>>
Mobile apps that are better suited for netbook screens? If so, can that effort be promoted out to the community? <<BR>>

Rather than have mobile ports of apps, it would be nice if apps were aware themselves of size constraints and adjusted accordingly. -- That's really bad and will not look good: other than size constraints you'll also get usability constraints that it's not easy to make like that. You'd need to go for Model/View separation and have different views, possible reusing components, of course. <<BR>>

GPE has prior art but it was designed for much more limited resources and would look outdated in something like the presented hardware. Users like bling. <<BR>>

Use of online applications as an alternative. Sync ability would be a requirement (read google gears-like) <<BR>>

Emulation
* create emulator image that download and runs (davidm) <<BR>>
* no problem with changes in DPI for netbook devices (davidm) <<BR>>
* Allow easy-testing through emulation (kvm/qemu/vmware/virtualbox) <<BR>>
* Qemu and kvm use same image format, and those images can be converted to vmware images <<BR>>

Application stacks <<BR>>
* decouple hardware support from application stacks (emmet) <<BR>>
 
Get community (e.g. gnome mobile) interested in helping testing in a screen emulator with issues like screen constraints. <<BR>>

P. Goodall to work with D. Mandala on a Blueprint for UME and UNR device emulation <<BR>>
** Standard applications <<BR>>
** Application considerations <<BR>>
** Target users <<BR>>
** Development Environment <<BR>>
** Device emulation <<BR>>
** File system considerations <<BR>>
