{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

==== Goal ====

Clarify where translation work for UNR will be done and how that work correlates to Karmic (and others)

==== Rationale ====

Current state:
* UNR exists as launchpad.net/unr/* subprojects (each of which corresponds to a package)
* Ubuntu Translators have never officially had a work cycle on these packages/projects
* Meanwhile, the karmic cycle is under way

Desired state:
* Ubuntu Translators have a work period to review/fix lp.net/unr/* translations
* In time for Karmic cycle, including upload to Karmic Rosetta for translation bug fixing

Note: 
* We'd like to focus Ubuntu Translator work on the upstream (lp.net/unr/*) projects, not on these packages in Karmic. This helps all downstream consumers (not just Karmic) and minimizes work to upstream translation changes done in Karmic to lp.net/unr/*
* The expectation is that no strings will need to be changed or added for karmic. If that turns out to be needed, the translation work can occur in the normal karmic translation time period.

=== Design ===
* Packgages imported to karmic but translation templates in Karmic blocked (not 'approved'; UT told to work in upstream 
* UT translation completed upstream (lp.net/unr/*) before the final Ubuntu Karmic import
* Final Karmic import and translation templates unblocked ('approved') in Karmic Rosetta
* Bug fixing in Karmic Rosetta (if needed) followed (at convenient time) by upstreaming 

=== Implementation ===

* The following lp.net/unr projects are to be used in karmic:
** netbook-launcher
** desktop-switcher
** window-picker-applet
** webfav

'''Note''': human-netbook-theme, currently in karmic Main, is to be replaced with some open source pkg Neil mentioned. Its translation status is unknown.

'''Note''': webfav translations:
* will flesh this out at karmic sprint, but here's the current thinking
** import: two possibilities: script to convert xpi to po, then upload po to rosetta. Or, setup pkg correctly and upload to rosetta
** export: rosetta download creates xpipo, then script to convert that to xpi, which you place in source pkg and import to karmic

* all of the listed pkgs are now in string freeze state in lp.net/unr

* to enable Ubuntu Translators to get to work on these, Kyle will do the following:
** update pot files and upload them to rosetta (lp.net/unr/* - upstream)
** merge netbook-launcher trunk pos with rosetta pos, preferring rosetta (community translations done after neil forked) and picking up privately done for Walpole. Then, put them in bzr trunk, then upload to rosetta. (merge for netbook-launcher done, holding off on push to trunk till Aug 7 so Neil can use trunk for another project)
** David Planella email to UT (Aug 10?) saying 'start work'

* Ubuntu Translators work on these until Sept 4
** export rosetta to bzr trunk (Kyle)
** enable pot file creation on build (required by Ubuntu for lang packs) (Kyle) (Kyle has verified all. webfav doesn't work yet. Aug 5)
** src pkgs released (Kyle)
** src pkgs imported (final, hopefully) to karmic (Steve K)

* David P to approve template imprt to karmic rosetta  (for first time)

'''Note''': If Neil needs to make bug fixes (with string changes), he can do so up to Karmic User Interface Freeze (Sept 10). However, this will entail two things:
* new source pkgs imported to karmic
* email to Kyle/David so that Ubuntu Translators are aware of the string change.
 UT will do this translation work in Ubuntu, not upstream (lp.net/unr/*)

'''Note''': Translations done in Ubuntu proejct will need to be upstreamed later.

 
 
 

 
