{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page keeps track of the current release status of the Mobile Team.

=== Weekly summary ===

* 2d-launcher archive uploads/MIRs
** MIR concerns/maybe pre-promote
* uboot imx51 work
** generally works, issues with .img partitioning under investigation
* marvel/fsl kernel update preparations for a2
** verified, pending upload.
* armel-only ftbfs for main
** almost on top
* lsb-lib porting
** required bits are ported; next packaging/deployment
* chromium porting/license review
** chromium runtime issues resolved
** licensing in reasonably good shape.
* getting a2 burndown in better shape
** down to trendline again.

=== Specs ===

https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+specs?searchtext=mobile-lucid

Progress:
* Entire cycle: http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid/report.html
* Alpha-2: http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid-alpha2/report.html

=== RC Bugs ===

Fixed this week:
* Bug:488354: xulrunner-1.9.1: NS_InvokeByIndex in xptcinvoke_arm.cpp is not Thumb-2 safe for Lucid 
* Bug:431963: linux-fsl-imx51: io/fs errors when launching gdm on imx51 with sata
* Bug:453682: linux-mvl-dove: late resume failure on dove
* Bug:458501: gnome-screensaver: screensaver hangs on unlock, eats cpu
* Bug:494667: squasfs-tools: non-ISO-C misaligned pointer punning causes slowness and SIGILLs with thumb2 (currently worked around)

Fix available:
* Bug:456659: linux-fsl-imx51: suspend/resume failure on imx51
* Bug:488267: ffmpeg: "should be built with -marm for lucid on armel"
* Bug:490792: xulrunner-1.9.1: ARM/Thumb interworking support missing from nanojit

Bugs which need better understanding/debugging:
* Bug:458537: linux-fsl-imx51: hibernate does not work
* Bug:462798: ubiquity: "selecting 'new partition table' confuses the partitioning"
* Bug:499881: linux-fsl-imx51 "usb storage with ext4 does not work in lucid" 

=== Blueprint/Activity Status alpha-2 ===

==== Essential ====
* mobile-lucid-arm-gcc-v7-thumb2: most ftbfs issues resolved; review work items will get done at a2; rebuild of missing packages during a3
* mobile-lucid-une-2d-launcher: blocked on MIR and seeding
* mobile-lucid-imx51-debian-cd-to-uboot: issues with partitioning -> unlikely to make a2

==== High ====
* mobile-lucid-bringup-testing: 2 work items will slip into a3 cycle 
* mobile-lucid-arm-lightweightbrowser: benchmark/review/archive upload pending
* mobile-lucid-arm-lib-tests: late; porting done; reassigned packaging, deployment and execution to team to help out.
* mobile-lucid-arm-suspend-resume-testplan: a-2 items DONE.
* mobile-lucid-arm-alternate-images: DONE - verification pending.

==== Medium ====
* mobile-lucid-une-casper-speedup: a-2 items DONE.
* mobile-lucid-efficient-install-testing: DONE. pending QA tracker deployment

=== Planned intrusive changes for Alpha-2 ===

* new upstream/fsl kernel for imx51 and dove

=== Planned intrusive changes for Alpha-3 ===

* move to uboot for fsl
* switch armel images from desktop to UNE seeds
