{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This Page aims to collect Spec ideas to discuss at the next UDS for the Mobile and Embedded team.

* Include Gnome Globalmenu Patch or something like https://launchpad.net/ograsac-desktop in GTK to support screen sizes of 1024x576 on mobile devices with standard gnome apps. (OliverGrawert)
* Inspect patch from https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2008-August/005330.html (drag metacity windows everywhere without using alt key) which could massively improve window handling on touchscreens. (OliverGrawert)
* Review xrandr interfaces, and provide for a simple rotation widget in the default interface: verify that the panels work smoothly with only 600 (or 576) horizontal pixels. (EmmetHikory)
* Performance gains/power savings of lpia: is i386 good enough? (LoicMinier)
* What images to maintain?  UNR versus Hildon/Moblin images (LoicMinier)
* Accessibility needs work. Outside of meaning that this Ubuntu flavour is *not* accessible for all it makes running automated UI testing with dogtail or LDTP impossible. See this <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/moblin-ui-framework/+bug/155927|bug]]</nowiki> . After recent 30/10/2008 IRC discussion it seems dogtail should just work on ubuntu-mobile as it uses a gnome desktop not hildon. This needs to be tested and scripts written for the main applications.  A script run at DIF, one at FF, one at Beta, and one at RC is probably sensible. So, roughly, a dogtail run in late January, late February, mid March and mid April. (IanLawrence) 
* Solve touchscreen calibration once and for all ... currently touchscreen calibration requires a lot of manual fiddling, jaunty should solve that situation for all touchscreen devices and probably even tablets. (OliverGrawert)
* Recovery partition: provide a mean to reinstall/recover/rescue a system from an on disk partition, perhaps similar to a live system; tools to create this partition, modifications to the installer to allow creation and setup of this partition, tools to update/maintain this partition, dist upgrades from the partition etc. (LoicMinier)
* Save a memory image to disk on successful boot ala s2disk each time after system updates have been applied to allow booting directly into it, bypassing the regular userspace startup mechanism/slow init scripts (LoicMinier, suggested by DavidMandala)
* Converting installation from one architecture to another, e.g. upgrading from intrepid/lpia to intrepid/i386, from /i386 to /amd64 or vice-versa. (LoicMinier)
* Hildon 2.2 integration (proposed by LoicMinier)
* UNR integration (proposed by LoicMinier)
* Squashfs initrds discussion and research (proposed by LoicMinier)
* Image bootmenu a la gfxboot (as used on the liveCD), this is including to merge images by architecture and offer a selection of the flavour (-mid, -umpc or netbook) to be installed (proposed by OliverGrawert)

=== Registered Specs for UDSJaunty ===

* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-spec-cleanup
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile/+spec/gfxboot-like-menu-for-mobile-images
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/general-resolution-for-touchscreen-handling
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-applications
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile/+spec/mid-jaunty-launcher
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-team-seed-management
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-setup-wizard
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile/+spec/mobile-iso-images
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubiquity-hildon
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mid-application-switcher
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mid-display-manager
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-hardware-support
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mid-screen-rotation
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lpia-versus-i386
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/recovery-partition
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/squashfs-initrds
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile/+spec/gps-on-mobile
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile/+spec/automated-test-suite
