{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Launchpad Account ===
https://launchpad.net/~mocchi

=== Following mailing lists ===
* ubuntu-jp https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-jp
* ubuntustudio-devel https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-studio-devel
* ubuntustudio-users https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-studio-users
* ffado-devel https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/ffado-devel
* ffado-user https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/ffado-user
* alsa-devel http://mailman.alsa-project.org/mailman/listinfo/alsa-devel
* alsa-users https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/alsa-user

=== Joined Team ===

* Ubuntu Japanese Team https://launchpad.net/~japaneseteam

=== Future plans ===

I'm interested in the side of Ubuntu as a multimedia creation platform. It's my glad to extend Ubuntu's perspective for this aspect.

I can write Perl, Python, PHP but cannot C/C++, and have a little knowledgement related to GNU Makefile and debian packaging rules. So I'm not good at package maintainer or package reviewer.

But I'm good at XHTML, CSS, Java``Script and have a knowledge of website-related technology. So it seems to good for me to website design or administration.

=== Main dedication for Open Source Software ===

Ubuntu Community

** a member of writer team for <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe|Ubuntu Weekly Recipe]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://forums.ubuntulinux.jp/|In Ubuntu Japanese Forum]]</nowiki>, Support mainly for Linux sound system and tablet device
** Following to Ubuntu Studio community discussion and report it to Ubuntu Japanese Community.  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/UbuntuStudioTips|Wiki Ubuntu Studio Tips]]</nowiki> is a part of this action.

Outside
** <nowiki>[[http://alsa-project.org|ALSA]]</nowiki>, working for Firewire kernel streaming and some drivers
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ffado.org/|FFADO]]</nowiki>, improvement for some Echo Audio Fireworks based devices, some BridgeCo BeBoB based devices (M-Audio/Yamaha/PreSonus)
** <nowiki>[[http://qtractor.sourceforge.net/|Qtractor]]</nowiki>, Japanese translation
** <nowiki>[[http://qjackctl.sourceforge.net/|QjackCtl]]</nowiki>, Japanese translation
** <nowiki>[[http://festige.sourceforge.net/|FeSTige]]</nowiki>, to give Japanese Translation file. FYI: FeSTige is a host program for Windows binary based on VST, Steinberg's music processing platform. 
** <nowiki>[[http://japan.nucleuscms.org|Nucleus CMS Japanese Community]]</nowiki>, as a leader of <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.jp/projects/nucleus-jp/|Japanese package release team]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mocchi/+archive/instruments|PPA]]</nowiki>, to give some packages usuful for music processing

=== Contact ===
 Twitter:: @takaswie
 Mail:: By Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mocchi/+contactuser|Contact user]]</nowiki> (Need to get account and log in)
