{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/libapache-mod-auth-kerb]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=modauthkerb|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mod_auth_kerb|Secunia history]]</nowiki> entries.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons running.
** Used with Apache which authenticates users in a kerberos realm.
** No source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The apache module has to be configured against a kerberos realm otherwise the package wont work correctly.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libapache-mod-auth-kerb]]</nowiki>: It doesn't look like it can authenticate against multiple realms (#457341)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/liba/libapache-mod-auth-kerb.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://modauthkerb.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=51775&atid=464524|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>is calm
** Does not need special hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Uses debhelper with dpatch.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, autotools-dev, libkrb5-dev, autoconf, apache2-threaded-dev, dpatch, krb5-config
** All in main except for krb5-config which is in universe.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libapache-mod-auth-kerb/+bug/187021]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
