{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page will hopefully evolve into a generic Howto, but for now it will focus on the acx wifi driver from http://acx100.sourceforge.net

I am working with the hawking_hwp54g – Ubuntu has and older version of the driver, and my card isn't working.  So I thought I would try using the current version of the driver, and make some notes along the way.

Make a dir, get/untar the acx source.
<pre>
mkdir -p src/acx
cd src/acx
wget http://www.cmartin.tk/acx/acx-20060521.tar.bz2
tar xjvf acx-20060521.tar.bz2
</pre>

Warning!  acx-20060521.tar.bz2 is a tar-bomb (drops files and dirs in the current dir instead of creating a single dir)

The Readme says I need to compile a new kernel, but that isn't true.

To build anything, you might as well get the basic build package, and to build a kernel module, you need the KernelHeaders (for the box the module will be running on)
<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-`uname -r`
</pre>

To build, don't follow the acx's Readme (it says you need to compile the whole kernel.)
Following a lines I saw here: http://acx100.sourceforge.net/wiki/ACX

<pre>
make -C /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build M=`pwd`
sudo make -C /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build M=`pwd` modules_install 
</pre>

Thats about it for building and installing. In the case of the acx module, using it takes a few more steps, which are slightly off topic, but I may as well continue them here.  

'''Attention!''' Probably it isn't work well with Ubuntu 5.10.

Trying to install the ACX111 driver I get the following errors:

from '''/usr/src/acx-20060215''' calling
<pre>
make -C /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build M=`pwd`
</pre>
causes

 1) the first message tells me that the directory '''build''' in '''/lib/modules/2.6.12-9-386/''' doesn't exist.
OK! I try '''mkdir build''' to create the build-directory;

 2) the second error is 
<pre>
make: Entering directory `/lib/modules/2.6.12-9-386/build'
make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found.   Stop.
make: Leaving directory `/lib/modules/2.6.12-9-386/build'
</pre>

Do you have any idea?
