{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Mohamed Amine IL Idrissi, apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Mohamed Amine IL Idrissi
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ilidrissi.amine|ilidrissi.amine]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[MohamedAmineILIdrissi]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a 16-year-old high school student who is very interested in new technologies and Ubuntu. I live currently in Morocco, but plan to continue my university studies in France, and hopefully get a good job :)

== My Ubuntu story ==
I began using Ubuntu since 6.06, when I heard from it on a French site. I have been a fervent user of Ubuntu since then, but haven't been contributing until July 2010, when I began doing bug triaging and bug fixing.

=== My involvement ===

I am involved in Ubuntu Development via update-manager and software-center principally. I also do some bug triaging.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Bug fixes:
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/635198
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/625232
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/625252
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/554319
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/update-manager/+bug/624894
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/update-manager/+bug/394608
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-codec-install/+bug/615508

Patches sponsored/accepted upstream:
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/288912
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+bug/621373
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/update-manager/+bug/601127
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rox/+bug/615490
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vifm/+bug/615563
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hal/+bug/597653

New features:
* Implemented the add-ons feature in software-center.
* Implemented alerts in update-manager (by alerts, I mean the download size, the warning when the system is on battery...), fixing in the process:
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/426708
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/426710
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/update-manager/+bug/494772
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/484249
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/387382

=== Areas of work ===
I worked closely with the software-center team to further polish the add-ons feature.
Also, more related to bug triaging, I recently organized a <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay-20100930|Hug Day]]</nowiki> about Jaunty bugs.

=== Things I could do better ===
I could certainly learn more about Debian packaging. Also, I also need more experience in merges and syncs, as I haven't done any.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I plan to contribute a lot more in Ubuntu, be it via coding, bug triaging, packaging, or translating.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I have no comments about Ubuntu itself, it is really great :)

But I would like to get more people interested in bug triaging. What we have now is simply hugdays, which are simply wiki pages with bug numbers. Moreover, you have to manipulate the command line in order to get anywhere.
What would be great is a graphical interface for these hugdays, so people are more interested. Just a suggestion :)
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
