{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Process ===

If you are interested in joining the Ubuntu Beginners Team, follow the following steps. 

 {*} Read the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam|introduction]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/MissionStatement|mission statement]]</nowiki> and familiarize yourself with the current focus groups.<<BR>>
 {*} Subscribe to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-beginners|mailing list]]</nowiki> to ensure that you remain up-to-date with what the team is doing.<<BR>>
 {*} Send an Email to the mailing list introducing yourself and stating your Ubuntu related interests. If you know which Focus Group you wish to work with, include that. If you are not sure which Focus Group you want to work with we can go over your interests with you and find the right one. Be sure to include the names of any Ubuntu teams you have worked with, along with how long you have been working with them.<<BR>>
 {*} Add your name to the ''Seeking Guide'' list <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership#Seeking Guide | here]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>
 {*} Come hang out with us in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|Internet Relay Chat]]</nowiki>  channel '''#ubuntu-beginners-team''' on Freenode, most members are active in the channel and it's a good way to introduce yourself and meet us all quickly. You can also take a look at our irc <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/IRC|guide]]</nowiki> which has a selection of chat clients and reviews our rules for using irc.

If you are not sure about joining the Beginners Team, please <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-beginners-team|come by our IRC channel]]</nowiki> #ubuntu-beginners-team on freenode we would be more then happy to answer any questions you might have.

=== Requirements ===
The following requirements must be met in order to become a member of the Ubuntu Beginners Team. Your BT Guide will help you complete each of these items.

 {*} Sign the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.<<BR>>
 {*} Have an account on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ | Launchpad]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 {*} Have a wiki page describing yourself and your contributions. For help on creating an Ubuntu wiki page <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership/BTWikiGuide|See here]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>

=== Examples ===
==== Introduction Letter ====
<pre>
Subject: Introducing $NAME ($NICKNAME)
To: ubuntu-beginners@lists.ubuntu.com

Hello,

My name is $NAME [1][2], and I have been contributing in the Ubuntu community for $LENGTH with the $TEAM. 
I am interested in joining the Ubuntu Beginners Team. I believe that I can help with the $FOCUS_GROUP, 
and some prior examples of my work related to this team can be found here [3].

Thanks,
$NAME

[1] https://launchpad.net/~$LPNAME
[2] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/$WIKINAME
[3] http://examples.of.work.com
</pre>

==== Application for Vote ====
We value the input of the community. If you are an established member of another team who wishes to become a Guide for a related focus group please have your team leader or two other team members leave a testimonial for you. An example testimonial looks like this:
<pre>
<nowiki>[[$NAME]]</nowiki>I have worked with $CANDIDATE for the past $LENGTH on the $TEAM. He has been doing some terrific work on $STUFF. 
I can support the quality of his work, and believe $CANDIDATE is here to stay.

Some examples of his work can be found:

 n:   link
 n+1: link
  ...
 n+m: link

@ S I G @
</pre>

Please note that @ S I G @ should be written as &#64;SIG&#64; on the page.

{*} If you are new to the Ubuntu Community and not yet a member of another team a recommendation from your Beginners Team Guide must also be included on your wiki page with the other recommendation. An example of this type of recommendation is below:

<pre>
As the Guide of $CANDIDATE I would like to vouch for the effort and work that $CANDIDATE has put into the team. 
He is $DescriptionOfCharacteristics, and would make a great addition to the team. 
He has my support for Beginners Team membership. @ S I G @
</pre>

Please note that @ S I G @ should be written as &#64;SIG&#64; on the page.

{*} After receiving either set of recommendations and placing them on your wiki page you will send an email to the Beginners Team mailing list announcing you wish to be voted on for membership at the next council meeting. You should also update the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki> wiki page to add yourself to the agenda under "New Member Nominations" for the council meeting.

=== Seeking Guide ===
If you would like to join the team and have not yet been sponsored by a Guide please add yourself to this table.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background:#592441;color:#F1F1DD;font-weight:bold;"> #
| Applicant
| Timezone
| Date added
| Contacted by
| Contacted on
|-
| 1
| <nowiki>[[rx007|rx007]]</nowiki>
| UTC +9
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 2
| <nowiki>[[luca-faggianelli]]</nowiki>
| UTC +1
| 
| <nowiki>[[coalwater]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 3
| <nowiki>[[CagriEmer]]</nowiki>
| UTC +11
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 4
| <nowiki>[[simar]]</nowiki>
| UTC +5:30
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 5
| <nowiki>[[igumus]]</nowiki>
| UTC +2
| 
| <nowiki>[[coalwater]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 6
| <nowiki>[[JavierBravoConde]]</nowiki>
| UTC +1
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 7
| <nowiki>[[mortiy]]</nowiki>
| UTC +2
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 8
| <nowiki>[[unict-signorello]]</nowiki>
| UTC +1
| 
| <nowiki>[[coalwater]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 9
| <nowiki>[[sarimura]]</nowiki>
| UTC +2
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 10
| <nowiki>[[skorkmaz88]]</nowiki>
| UTC +2
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 12
| <nowiki>[[loitranduc]]</nowiki>
| UTC +7
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 13
| <nowiki>[[GTRsdk]]</nowiki>
| UTC -5
| 
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 14
| <nowiki>[[INdek]]</nowiki>
| UTC +1
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 15
| <nowiki>[[benny]]</nowiki>
| UTC +10
| 
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 16
| <nowiki>[[frankbooth]]</nowiki>
| UTC +2
| 
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 17
| <nowiki>[[AhmedShams]]</nowiki>
| UTC +2
| 
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 18
| <nowiki>[[ScottSanbar]]</nowiki>
| UTC -5
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 19
| <nowiki>[[eyadof]]</nowiki>
| UTC +2
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 20
| <nowiki>[[philipballew]]</nowiki>
| UTC -7
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 21
| <nowiki>[[Snicksie]]</nowiki>
| UTC +2
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 22
| <nowiki>[[jfussion]]</nowiki>
| UTC +8
| 
| 
| 
|}
=== Comments ===

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
