{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Initial Story ==
To tell about my middle term goal, Its a magic that changed my lifestyle. Firstly I started using ubuntu 8.10 in my desktop at June 2009.From that time I got to know a lot about the linux and It made me feel good whenever I sit before my machine.

== Why I Chose ubuntu ==
All regards to my Pal rraj_be, who made me to know about what ubuntu is. Later I just surfed a lot in the internet and got to know a lot 
about Ubuntu.

=== My Early days ===
When I was in my early days of ubuntu, I just used it for internet purposes. Later I got into IRC where i found a vast exposure to ubuntu.As a beginner, I just walked into the room and found people helping the new comers with a lots of personal interest and that impressed me in a way that added some more liking over ubuntu.

=== Initial Steps In Ubuntu ===
After three months as a normal user, it went ordinary. Then I thought of helping the guys who comes with some problems and I am satified with the work I do now. Later I started a classroom (##learners) with some basic classes. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/tinivole|ibuclaw(Iain Buclaw)]]</nowiki> thought us the basics of LPI101. we got <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PabloRubianes|Pablo Rubianes]]</nowiki> came with a session talking about ubuntu basics. Then we got a Non ubuntu friend Sonicrules1234 and he took some basic classes about Python. Unfortunately all classes are now stumbled and I am thinking of re-constructing it. 

=== Why I lagged for applying for ubuntu Membership ===
Firstly I thought that getting voiced in the channel makes people not to concentrate more in helping the new comers. So i didn't apply for membership. Later I got to know that there is a *Lot more responsibilities* on the shoulders of the members. And today(14/6/2010) I thought of applying for my membership and am waiting for my mentor.

=== Other ubuntu exposure ===
I attended a 5 days workshop on ubuntu and I got to know a lot about the package maintanance and creation. I am thinking of starting a Linux Users Group in the college I studied and I am planning to join hands with <nowiki>[[http://fsftn.org | Tamil Nadu Free Sofware Foundation]]</nowiki> and am fully fledged in spreading Ubuntu in the forthcoming years.

=== Future Of My Middle Term Goal ===
I planned to get into global projects and make my contributions to ubuntu with my basic ideas in C, C++ and Java. And I am a Quick learner and I can do Projects in an language with the help of my mentor. :)

UBUNTU IS HEAVEN............. ENJOY THE DAYS ;)
