{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 25/6/2010 ===
Today My pal rrajbe was talking to me about a network monitoring application in Kaspersky Anti-virus. At that time I thought of doing a project of that network monitoring in Open source.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/duanedesign |Duanedesign]]</nowiki> gave some suggestions regarding that and I am in an oscillation of selecting a language to do that project.

I will find out soon

== Project Overview at the planning stage ==
An application that monitors the bytes sent and received in a network by mentioning each webpage name and the downloads made by it.

It must refresh after a second so that the data transfer must get updated. Same pages must get the transfer amount in a single link

Step 1:

Have to monitor the bytes sent and recieved

Step 2:

Have to monitor which application undergoes data transfer

Step 3:

If it is a download of upload, It must fetch the name of the file involved in it 

Step 4:

If it is a web page, it must update it to the database, first must check whether the link is already present. If not have to add it on the database.

Step 5:

This must update the db per second. And it must get cleared 

 {*} Whenever the internet gets disconnected

 {*} Daily

 {*} weekly

 {*} or per hour

(It must be the choice of the end user)

=== By exact ===

If there is an application, we can run it, find how much it downloaded and can ban sites to never load

If I want to limit the internet usage, My application must let me set limits for a particular website to download data.
It must also temporarily ban the sites that makes un-even data transfer. Each data sent and received must store the source/destination IP to have monitoring.

It must find the scripts running on each loads of a page, must check the redirections and must report.

As said earlier, the database about the transfer must be updated to the user automatically to the user.
(will add more if i think :D)

=== Links ===

Here are some projects you can look into as they may allow to do a portion of what you are trying to do.

* http://www.snort.org/
* http://www.cacti.net/
* http://www.squid-cache.org/
* http://www.ntop.org/overview.html
* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMonitorInternetTrafficTotals
* http://www.linux-noob.com/forums/index.php?/topic/3036-bandwidth-quotas-using-iptables/
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M0n0wall
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PfSense
* http://tuxguardian.sourceforge.net/
** http://debian.zaubberer.net/repos/pool/sid/main/tuxguardian/

==== 14/10/2010 ====

Analysis of the project begun. Initial plans are 

{*} Starting a channel ##net-watcher in IRC, under freenode network for discussion about the project and development.

{*} It is planned to develop project in both Java along with C# and with python too. 

{*} Project will be soon announced in the Ubuntu Beginners dev and for Ubuntu community, once the development is started.
