{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== 7/6/2010 ====
I attended a workshop in Ubuntu with some basic classes over python, Drupal, LAMP and about packages. Thanks to the <nowiki>[[http://fsftn.org | Tamil Nadu Free Sofware Foundation]]</nowiki> who organised the classes and It made me involve in spreading ubuntu in my college and the surroundings.

==== 15/6/2010 ====
My channel, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/learners |##learners]]</nowiki> is getting its life back. We got two classes now for C# by juju2143 and PHP by lenswipe. One of my friends is going to present a speech on a topic "A talk on how to decide which *buntu is best for YOU" and I am waiting for it :)
Now <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/bgs100 | bgs100 ]]</nowiki> teaches C. We are looking forward for many sessions :) 

20/6/2010: Updated logs in wiki pages itself ;)
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/learners | link]]</nowiki>

==== 25/6/2010 ====
Thinking of doing an open source project regarding the monitoring of downloaded bytes by each webpage or a an application. My basic Ideas are in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mohi/NetworkMonitoringProject |link]]</nowiki>

28/6/2010: First work is finding and clearing bugs in the Orphaned pages. Doing them =]

29/6/2010: I installed Kubuntu today. The third OS in my machine :P I will look at the atmosphere in it and will learn ;)

==== 01/07/2010 ====
We are conducting a two days ''' workshop ''' about linux in Velalar Engineering College, Erode and on that day we are inaugurating our District Committee. And in the upcoming week, We will start an Ubuntu Club in our college (First club too :D). 

==== 05/07/2010 ====
Today I am going to my ex-college to get volunteers for our LUG and am going to take some sessions about what to do in that LUG. I think I ll move these daily updates to another page xD(moved to this page on 7th July). It extends :P

==== 08/07/2010 ====
1) Today I went to Velalar Engineering college. Spoke with nearly 400 students about Free Softwares and about ubuntu. The two days Workshop will be conducted there and I learned a lesson today that I don't have to point other OS directly. 

2) Applied for Beginners Team Membership. and Yay

13/07/2010: Got Ubuntu Beginners Team Membership yay.:D
Have to contribute a lot regarding the help to the new comers(like I did for the past 10 months :D).

16/07/2010: ''' Workshop '''
Registration stopped at 371. Man I am expecting a huge crowd in our first free software awareness program.

==== 18/07/2010 ====
Classes went awesome and we got 300+ on both days. The sessions like python, Tamil computing, SQL and free software movement was made clear to the people gathered.

24/07/2010: I started <nowiki>[[http://pythondevil.wordpress.com|Python blog]]</nowiki> in wordpress along with <nowiki>[[http://infodevils.wordpress.com|my oldie]]</nowiki>. I started learning PHP and designing the webpages as I know the overview of Joomla

==== 08/08/2010 ====
We FSFTN people conducted a workshop in Kovilpatti and we got good response from the remote areas too :). I updated it in my old <nowiki>[[http://infodevils.wordpress.com/2010/08/08/two-days-foss-workshop-at-national-engineering-college/ | blog ]]</nowiki>

==== 18/08/2010 ====
Today I created a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~linuxdevils |group]]</nowiki> in launchpad for our college students and started a mailings list for posting their doubts. We are going organize classes on every sundays and We got about 250 people interested in those classes. I think I will bring them up soon. But the management of my Ex-College is not responding properly. I have to ask them to look for the students' future.

''' 22/08/2010: '''
We Inaugurated Nandha Linux Users Group by today morning and 50 People came there. We spoke for three hours and We created a launchpad group for future use. I think more people will come forward to learn. 

''' 12/09/2010: '''
From today I am mentoring <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JoeMaverickSett |JoeMaverickSett  ]]</nowiki> and I am happy to do that. I started giving him assignments. He is like "me before an year". I will do my best to teach him to a greater extent and will check his abilities.

14/09/2010: I am thinking of applying for Ubuntu Membership. I am asking for suggestions about me to my team members. I will apply soon :)
