{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ubuntumd.org sitemap (proposal) ==

Mostly taken from ubuntu.ro.

The website was said to be in 2 languages: Romanian and Russian.

Mostly taken from ubuntu.ro.

The website was said to be in 2 languages: Romanian and Russian.

* Homepage
* About Ubuntu
** Desktop edition
** Server edition
** Kubuntu
** Edubuntu
** Xubuntu
** Ubuntu story
** Phylosophy
** License
** Components
** Relationship with Debian
** Ubuntu Foundation
** Get Ubuntu
** Local mirrors
** Official webpage (external link to http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download)
** Ask for a free CD (external link to https://shipit.ubuntu.com/)
** Uprade Ubuntu (small how to to get your system upgraded)
** Release Notes
* Get Support (about how to use system's docs) 
** Community (where to find docs and support including Mailing lists, IRC, Forum, Jabber)
** Documentatation (links to wiki's in Romanian, Russian and Official)
** Doing events and how to get support from us
** Courses and Learning (links to official ubuntu courses in Romanian, Russian and Official)
* Get in (describing in small how to become part of it)
** Code of conduct
** For leadership
** Using mailing lists (netiquette)
** Promoting
** Web badges
** Digital stuff (posters, logo and etc)
** Official shop (link to it)
** Help documenting
** Help localizing 
** Help bugtracking
** Mailing list
** Support through donations
* Contact
* About Ubuntu Moldova
* Legal notes
* Blog/News
* Forum link
* Planet link

== To Do ==
* Define important parts and start commiting.
* Get in touch with Ubuntu-Ro and Ubuntu-Ru and find out if they can offer for us some translated stuff
* Get a logo
* Get a poster
* Get banners like here http://ubuntu.ro/participa/promovare/banere
* Find blogs for planet
