{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Overview ==

=== This is the home page for Ubuntu Mon translation ===

Our intention is to maintain a central communications channel for Mon languages. Generally, this includes the people translating in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-mnw|launchpad Mon Language]]</nowiki>.

These variants are almost identical in their written forms, so it makes sense for some communication and co-operation to take place. We hope to eliminate the duplication of effort that is currently taking place in regards to translations.

Our translations are based on <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/eoan/+lang/mnw|Mon Language]]</nowiki>. That effort is headquartered <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-mnw|here]]</nowiki>. Essentially, we are producing a know-how form of Mon Language version.

We do not intend to restrict the activities of local translation groups, but rather to provide a common base for everyone to build upon. Through co-operation, we hope to strengthen rather than weaken localised versions of Mon Language.

== How to Participate ==

Joining the Ubuntu MonTranslators team allows you to commit translations and vote on policies. If you are not a member, your contributions will need to be approved by a member. The procedure for joining is as follows.

# Sign up for a <nowiki>[[https://login.launchpad.net/+login]]</nowiki>.
# Make your e-mail address visible on your Launchpad homepage so that we can get in touch with you. If we cannot contact you, you cannot join.
# Apply to join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-mnw|Ubuntu Mon Translators team]]</nowiki>
# An Administrator should e-mail you. Reply to their message.

The team is moderated, meaning that you need to be approved by an Administrator before you are allowed to join. Membership is dependent upon:

* adequate command of both English and Mon language to qualify as a translator
* ability to contribute constructively and work as a team under the leadership of the Administrators
* following established guidelines and directions
* remaining contactable via the mailing list

Don't let these requirements scare you off, though. Provided you have decent written English language skills, you will likely be admitted.

== Communication ==

Our primary communications channel is our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-mnw|Ubuntu Mon Translation Team]]</nowiki>.

== Translation Guidelines ==

Unless they conflict with the information given below, translations should be based on the proper vocabulary. You can check the following online dictionaries for some vocab.

* the <nowiki>[[http://glosbe.com/en/mnw//|Mon-English-Mon Online Dictionary]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[http://software.sil.org/padauk/|Font]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[http://www.sealang.net/mon/dictionary.htm|SEAlang Library Mon Dictionary]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[https://code.google.com/archive/p/mon2uni/ |Mon Unicode]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[http://keymagic.net/|Unimon Keyboard]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/TaoMonLae/mon_keyboard_linux |Mon Keyboard for Ubuntu]]</nowiki> by Tao Mon Lae

=== Dialectical/Contextual Differences ===

Since our goal is to provide a common base for Mon, one must be mindful of the use of words in translation, and the differences between dialects and contexts (nouns/verbs, computing/non-computing, etc.).  We will use the mailing list or webchat to discuss such matters.

=== Translation Tools ===

Highly recommended:

* <nowiki>[[https://m.apkpure.com/mondict/com.jamonrott.memd|English to Mon Dictionary]]</nowiki>, by JaMonRott
* <nowiki>[[https://glosbe.com/en/mnw |English to Mon Online Dictionary]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://apps.apple.com/app/moneng-dictionary/id1509441935?src=AppAgg.com | MonDict Ios]]</nowiki>

Other useful resources:

Coming Soon!!
----
CategoryHomepage CategoryTranslations CategoryTranslations
