{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I help to translate Launchpad´s projects to Spanish like Ubuntu, I´m member of Ubuntu Spanish Translators.
I test, report, and confirm bugs of Ubuntu Alpha, Beta and Release. 
Also I´m member of developer team of IDE for Vala and Genie language, Val(a)IDE 
http://www.valaide.org/
I´m learning C++, Vala, Python, Ruby, and GNU/Linux commands.
I help University´s proyects of Science (http://www.ibercivis.es/ and http://boinc.bakerlab.org/rosetta/) with Boinc http://boinc.berkeley.edu/index.php

Ayudo a traducir los proyectos del Launchpad al español como Ubuntu, soy miembro de Ubuntu Spanish Translators.
Compruebo, informo y confirmo fallos de Ubuntu Alpha, Beta y Release.
También soy miembro del equipo de desarrolladores de IDE para el lenguaje Vala y Genie Val(a)IDE
http://www.valaide.org/
Estoy aprendiendo C++, Vala, Python, Ruby, y órdenes de GNU/Linux.
Ayudo a proyectos universitarios de ciencias (http://www.ibercivis.es/ y http://boinc.bakerlab.org/rosetta/) con Boinc http://boinc.berkeley.edu/

BugSquad Mentorship Program
I´m interested in applications which are the most used by casual users like the installer ('''ubiquity''') web browser ('''firefox'''), desktop applications ('''GNOME'''), default Ubuntu applications ('''Update manager''', '''Ubuntu software center''', '''Ubuntu One''') and update problems of any package ('''broken dependencies''' and other conflicts).
My '''Time zone''' is: ''Europe/Madrid ''

'''''More''''':
Computing Engineering Degree; itinerary: Specific Computer Technology (second year)

=== Testimonials ===
* Monkey's been a valuable and constant translator. He cares about quality, an has been constant in his work. I want to thank him for being such a nice team mate! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:fitoschido]]</nowiki> , Ubuntu Member and Spanish Translator
