{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Approval Application for Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro Team ==

This is an approval application page for <nowiki>[[MontenegroTeam | Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro Team]]</nowiki> (ubuntu-me). 

=== Key Details ===
* '''Date''' - ''16 October 2011''
* '''Team Contacts''' 
** <nowiki>[[IvanBlažević | Ivan Blažević]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[TomoPopović | Tomo Popović]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MladenRadović | Mladen Radović]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[StevanŠandi | Stevan Šandi]]</nowiki>
* '''Membership:''' 7 active core members (103 users registered on our <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/groups/73079246420/ | Facebook group]]</nowiki> ) as of 14 October 2011 
* '''Team Mailing List:''' ubuntu-me [at] lists.launchpad.net
* '''Official Page:''' http://www.ubuntu-me.org/ 
* '''Email:''' loco [at] ubuntu-me.org<<BR>>
* '''Forum:''' http://forum.ubuntu-me.org/ 
* '''Wiki:''' http://wiki.ubuntu-me.org/ 
* '''IRC:''' #ubuntu-me @ irc.freenode.net, also accessible through our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/irc/ | IRC web page]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-me | Ubuntu Loco Montenegro Team]]</nowiki>
* '''Image gallery:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-me/ | Ubuntu-me gallery]]</nowiki>
* '''Youtube:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/user/UbuntuCG | UbuntuCG Channel]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===

* '''To become Approved LoCo Team'''<<BR>>To get the <nowiki>[[MontenegroTeam | Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro Team]]</nowiki> approved as an Approved LoCo Team. <<BR>>
* '''Spreading Ubuntu''' <<BR>> To spread the Ubuntu's spirit to all people of Montenegro as well as to strengthen presence of Ubuntu and other open source and free software in Montenegro businesses, education, and government. <<BR>>
* '''Provide local support''' <<BR>> To provide support to Montenegrin users through forum, IRC, e-mails, meet ups, etc. <<BR>>
* '''More Ubuntu activities''' <<BR>> To organize more events and activities such as Ubuntu release events, Ubuntu hours, workshops, trainings, and meet ups not only to members but to the public as well.<<BR>>
* '''Get involved in Ubuntu Projects''' <<BR>> To encourage involvement in Ubuntu Project such as packaging, translations and localization, and documentation. This is especially challenging as Montenegro is a multi-ethnic society, which just recently made some official changes in the language. 
* '''Streamline LoCo Activities''' <<BR>> We have recently launched new LoCo website, forum, wiki, planet, which will help us better streamline LoCo activities and provide variety of communication channels to local users.

=== Experience and Effort ===

==== Website and Infrastructure ====
* Active collaboration and support via <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/groups/73079246420/ | Facebook group]]</nowiki> since 2009<<BR>> 
* Registered new domain ubuntu-me.org<<BR>>
* Web site, forum, wiki creation and launch on 17 September 2011<<BR>>
* Blog RSS aggregation into Ubuntu-ME <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/planeta/ | Planet]]</nowiki> (cooperation with Ubuntu Serbia)<<BR>>
* Set up of other communication channels such as LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr<<BR>>

==== Events ====
* Ubuntu hour and presentation on 24 November 2011 (tentatively, University of Montenegro)<<BR>>
* Monthly IRC team meetings (last held on 16 October 2011)<<BR>>
* Ubuntu 11.10 Release Event and presentation at University of Montenegro on 13 October 2011, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/10/13/ubuntu-11-10-release-prezentacija-u-podgorici/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org | Website]]</nowiki>, forum, wiki launch on 17 September (Software Freedom Day)
* Ubuntu 9.04 Release Event in Bar on 24 April 2009, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2009/04/24/ubuntu-9-04-release-prezentacija-u-baru/ | here]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu 8.04 Presentation in Podgorica on 24 May 2008, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2008/05/24/ubuntu-prezentacija-u-podgorici/ | here]]</nowiki>

==== Education ====
* Ubuntu has been used in lab classes for subjects Computer Systems Administration and Operating Systems (Department for Electrical Engineering at University of Montenegro) for more than two years. We plan to introduce Ubuntu to people throughout the university and expand its use to other subjects and departments.<<BR>> 

==== Collaboration ====
* Creating good relationship with other Ubuntu teams in the region (Sebia, Croatia, Romania, Bosnia)<<BR>>
* Stenghtening relationship with University of Montenegro to promote Ubuntu and open source to students as well as to obtain support and help needed to reach out to educational and gouvernmental entities<<BR>>
* Contacting local media in order to get better visibility. Daily newspaper Vijesti published  <nowiki>[[http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/u-podgorici-prezentovana-nova-verzija-ubuntu-os-clanak-42896|this article]]</nowiki>.
 
==== Translation and Localization ====
* The team implemented initial draft for Montenegrin keyboard layout (with two new letters)<<BR>>
* There is a big challeange ahead due to recent official changes in Montenegrin language and need to even add the language to list of ISO codes. The good side is that all of the languages in the region (Serbian, Croatian, and Bosnian) are very similar<<BR>>
