{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* 20 Decembar 2011 - We organized an Ubuntu presentation in Pljevlja, probably the first one of that kind in North Montenegro. More info can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/12/20/ubuntu-prezentacija-u-pljevljima/ | here]]</nowiki>.

* 17 December 2011 - Ubuntu Hour event organized in student dorm at University of Montenegro in Podgorica. We distributed Ubuntu 11.10 CDs, installed Ubuntu on laptops, and discussed open source alternatives vs students needs. More info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/12/17/ubuntu-hour-u-studentskom-domu-u-podgorici/ | here]]</nowiki>.

* Daily newspaper Vijesti reported on our activities and distribution of Ubuntu 11.10 installation disks, which was extremely helpful to increase our visibility and promote Linux and open source in Montenegro. Here is the <nowiki>[[http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/podijeljeno-250-instalacionih-ubuntu-11-10-diskova-clanak-51535|link]]</nowiki>.

* November/December 2011 - We established a very good relationship with Montenegrin online magazine <nowiki>[[http://www.bit.me | BIT]]</nowiki>, which covered all of the recent activities of Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro. They announced all of our LoCo events and kept their readers informed on the progress and plans.<<BR>>

* November/December 2011 - We had an action of distributing 250 Ubuntu 11.10 installation CDs. The disks were given out on the presentations, as well as distributed by hand among friends and family. The disks were mainly distributed in Podgorica, but we sent some to Bar, Niksic, and Pljevlja. More info can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/12/01/u-toku-je-podjela-ubuntu-11-10-cd-ova/ | here]]</nowiki>.

* 7 December 2011 - Ubuntu presentation at University Donja Gorica in Podgorica (UDG). Another presentation on a same day!! We presented activities and plans of Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro team and invited visitors to join us. The presentation included a live demo and there was a nice discussion related to Ubuntu features and business model. All attendees got a free Ubuntu 11.10 installation CD. More info can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/12/07/prezentacija-na-univerzitetu-donja-gorica/ | here]]</nowiki>.

* 7 December 2011 - Ubuntu presentation at Faculty of Sciences in Podgorica (PMF). In a room full of people we presented the latest Ubuntu 11.10 and discussed how to migrate from Windows to Ubuntu and use Open Source software. We discussed activities and plans of Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro team and invited attendees to join us. All attendees got a free Ubuntu 11.10 installation CD. More info can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/12/07/prezentacija-na-pmf-u/ | here]]</nowiki>.
