{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Approval Application for Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro Team ==

This is an approval application page for <nowiki>[[MontenegroTeam | Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro Team]]</nowiki> (ubuntu-me). 

=== Key Details ===
* '''Date''' - ''13 January 2012''
* '''Team Contacts''' 
** <nowiki>[[IvanBlažević | Ivan Blažević]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[TomoPopović | Tomo Popović]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MladenRadović | Mladen Radović]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[StevanŠandi | Stevan Šandi]]</nowiki>
* '''Membership:''' 17 active core members (~280 users registered on our <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/groups/73079246420/ | Facebook group]]</nowiki> ) as of 12 January 2012 
* '''Team Mailing List:''' ubuntu-me [at] lists.launchpad.net
* '''Official Page:''' http://www.ubuntu-me.org/ 
* '''Email:''' loco [at] ubuntu-me.org<<BR>>
* '''Forum:''' http://forum.ubuntu-me.org/ 
* '''Wiki:''' http://wiki.ubuntu-me.org/ 
* '''IRC:''' #ubuntu-me @ irc.freenode.net, also accessible through our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/irc/ | IRC web page]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-me | Ubuntu Loco Montenegro Team]]</nowiki>
* '''Image gallery:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-me/ | Ubuntu-me gallery]]</nowiki>
* '''Youtube:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/user/UbuntuCG | UbuntuCG Channel]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===

* '''To become Approved LoCo Team'''<<BR>>To get the <nowiki>[[MontenegroTeam | Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro Team]]</nowiki> approved as an Approved LoCo Team. <<BR>>
* '''Spreading Ubuntu''' <<BR>> To spread the Ubuntu's spirit to all people of Montenegro as well as to strengthen presence of Ubuntu and other open source and free software in Montenegro businesses, education, and government. <<BR>>
* '''Provide local support''' <<BR>> To provide support to Montenegrin users through forum, IRC, e-mails, meet ups, etc. <<BR>>
* '''More Ubuntu activities''' <<BR>> To organize more events and activities such as Ubuntu release events, Ubuntu hours, workshops, trainings, and meet ups not only to members but to the public as well.<<BR>>
* '''Get involved in Ubuntu Projects''' <<BR>> To encourage involvement in Ubuntu Project such as packaging, translations and localization, and documentation. This is especially challenging as Montenegro is a multi-ethnic society, which just recently made some official changes in the language. 
* '''Streamline LoCo Activities''' <<BR>> We have recently launched new LoCo website, forum, wiki, planet, which will help us better streamline LoCo activities and provide variety of communication channels to local users.

=== Experience and Effort ===

* As one of our members suggested the best way to get a feel for our activities is to visit <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/vijesti/ | News page]]</nowiki> on our website. The summary is listed bellow.

==== Website and Media ====
* Active collaboration and support via <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/groups/73079246420/ | Facebook group]]</nowiki> since 2009.<<BR>> 
* Registered new domain ubuntu-me.org.<<BR>>
* Web site, forum, wiki creation and launch on 17 September 2011.<<BR>>
* Blog RSS aggregation into Ubuntu-ME <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/planeta/ | Planet]]</nowiki> (cooperation with Ubuntu Serbia).<<BR>>
* Set up of other communication channels such as LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr.<<BR>>

==== Events ====
* Monthly IRC team meetings (next one scheduled for 17 January 2012).<<BR>>
* Published a two-page article "Montenegro must not miss on the Open Source opportunity" in daily newpaper <nowiki>[[http://www.vijesti.me | Vijesti]]</nowiki> (online and printed issues). The article can be read <nowiki>[[http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/open-source-je-prilika-koju-crna-gora-ne-smije-propustiti-clanak-55530 | here]]</nowiki>.
* Established a good relationship with Montenegrin online magazine <nowiki>[[http://www.bit.me | BIT]]</nowiki>, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/12/09/saradnja-sa-bit-online-ict-magazinom/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* Our Wiki grew to close to 50 pages in less than 3 months.<<BR>>
* Distributed 250 Ubuntu 11.10 installation CDs in November/December 2011. That was both announced and reported in local news media (BIT, Vijesti), article from daily newspaper Vijesti can be seen <nowiki>[[http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/podijeljeno-250-instalacionih-ubuntu-11-10-diskova-clanak-51535|here]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu presentation at Faculty of Science (PMF) on 7 December 2011 (two presentations on same day), more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/12/07/prezentacija-na-pmf-u/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu presentation at private University Donja Gorica (UDG) on 7 December 2011, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/12/07/prezentacija-na-univerzitetu-donja-gorica/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu hour and presentation on using Ubuntu and open source tools for software development on 28 November 2011 University of Montenegro (CIS/UCG), more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/11/28/jos-jedno-uspjesno-okupljanje/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu hour by students from Faculty of Sciences in Podgorica on 18 November 2011, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/11/18/kolege-sa-pmf-organizovali-ubuntu-hour/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu used at EE Department in lab classes (Operating Systems) in October/November 2011, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/11/12/ubuntu-u-nastavi-na-etf-u-u-podgorici/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* Local newspaper Vijesti had an article on activities of our LoCo team both in online and printed issues, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/10/19/evo-nas-u-vijestima/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu 11.10 Release Event and presentation at University of Montenegro on 13 October 2011, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/10/13/ubuntu-11-10-release-prezentacija-u-podgorici/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org | Website]]</nowiki>, forum, wiki launch on 17 September (Software Freedom Day)
* Ubuntu 9.04 Release Event in Bar on 24 April 2009, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2009/04/24/ubuntu-9-04-release-prezentacija-u-baru/ | here]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu 8.04 Presentation in Podgorica on 24 May 2008, more info available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2008/05/24/ubuntu-prezentacija-u-podgorici/ | here]]</nowiki>.

==== Education ====
* Ubuntu has been used in lab classes for subjects Computer Systems Administration and Operating Systems (Department for Electrical Engineering at University of Montenegro) for more than two years. We plan to introduce Ubuntu to people throughout the university and expand its use to other subjects and departments.<<BR>> 

==== Collaboration ====
* Created excellent relationship with Montenegrin online IT magazine BIT, which was announcing all Ubuntu-ME LoCo events and helped promoting our CD distribution action.<<BR>>
* Contacted former members of Linux Users Group of Montenegro (LUG-ME) with the idea of bringing it back to life.<<BR>>
* Creating good relationship with other Ubuntu teams in the region (Sebia, Croatia, Romania, Bosnia).<<BR>>
* Stenghtening relationship with University of Montenegro to promote Ubuntu and open source to students as well as to obtain support and help needed to reach out to educational and gouvernmental entities.<<BR>>
* Creating good relationship with privately held school University Donja Gorica (UDG). Participated in their first IT panel event.<<BR>>
* Contacting local media in order to get better visibility. Daily newspaper Vijesti published  <nowiki>[[http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/u-podgorici-prezentovana-nova-verzija-ubuntu-os-clanak-42896|this article]]</nowiki> and later <nowiki>[[http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/podijeljeno-250-instalacionih-ubuntu-11-10-diskova-clanak-51535|this report]]</nowiki> on our activities.
 
==== Translation and Localization ====
* The team implemented initial draft for Montenegrin keyboard layout (with two new letters).<<BR>>
* There is a big challeange ahead due to recent official changes in Montenegrin language and need to even add the language to list of ISO codes. The good side is that all of the languages in the region (Serbian, Croatian, and Bosnian) are very similar.<<BR>>
