{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Monty Taylor ==

=== Contact info ===

Name: Monty Taylor

Location: Seattle, WA, USA (PST -0800 GMT)

E-mail: mordred at inaugust dot com

Website: <nowiki>[[http://inaugust.com|inaugust.com]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://inaugust.com/resume.html|resume]]</nowiki>

GnuPG public key: 52B54601, 917E436B, 6E1E884E

Presence: mtaylor on irc.freenode.net
=== Bio ===

I'm a System Architect for Rackspace Cloud. I'm also a core developer on Drizzle.

I've been building Debian packages for myself for years, and hack on packages and backports quite frequently. I'm the maintainer of <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=mordred%40inaugust.com|several packages]]</nowiki> in Debian, although I'm not a Debian Developer and uploading bugfixes is always a pain. 

I hack in Python and C++ by choice, although I can do whatever. 

I'm a very vocal advocate of both bzr and launchpad. 

=== Ubuntu interests ===

I would like to add support for/maintain/contribute to: 

* Drizzle
* rackspace cloud
* libdrizzle
* gearman 
* haildb
* drizzle-python
* libmemcached
* vapour

=== Time Available ===

I am the primary person upstream involved in packaging all of our software, so I pretty much have as much time as is needed. The more I'm involved, the more I tend to contribute.
----
CategoryHomepage
