{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Contact Information ===

* '''Email'''
* 
* '''Launchpad Page'''
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~montezf]]</nowiki>

* '''IRC'''
** montez @ irc.freenode.net

=== Who Am I ===
Greetings! Welcome to the Montez Fitzpatrick Wiki Page.  I am a Network Security Engineer and perennial student.  I have always held a passion for all things technical.  I love working with my hands and have always had an aptitude for computers.  Early in life it wasn't my first love.  When I was a youngin' I wanted to be a chemist in the worst way.  After one experiment in my grandma's attic which threatened to reduce the house to cinders, I figured that I needed another outlet.  I got my degree in Computer Information Systems from the University of Central Missouri in 2003.  

I am currently working on obtaining my CISSP and trying to become proficient in Ruby.  Afterwards I am hoping to obtain my Masters of Science in Information Assurance.  But we'll have to see where that takes me.  

I have been a GNU/Linux dabbler since 1995.  It was an on again, off again relationship.  I tinkered and even joined my local college LUG and was the event coordinator.  But it just never stuck.  I really became entralled in 2005 and recently I have ditched Windows as my OS of choice.  I believe I've learned more within the last year than I've learned since 95.

----
CategoryHomepage
