{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* November 2011 - We initiated a relationship with Montenegrin online magazine <nowiki>[[http://www.bit.me | BIT]]</nowiki>, which covered all of the recent activities of Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro. They announced all of our LoCo events and kept their readers informed on the progress and plans.

* November 2011 - We started an action of distributing 250 Ubuntu 11.10 installation CDs. The disks were given out on the presentations, as well as distributed by hand among friends and family. The disks were mainly distributed in Podgorica, but we sent some to Bar, Niksic, and Pljevlja. More info can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/12/01/u-toku-je-podjela-ubuntu-11-10-cd-ova/ | here]]</nowiki>.

* 28 November 2011 - Ubuntu Hour and presentation at University of Montenegro (ETF/CIS). The presentation was focused on use of open source tools and Ubuntu for software development. It also included general topics related to agile programming (SCRUM) as well as the ongoing activities of Ubuntu LoCo Montenegro. All attendees got a free Ubuntu 11.10 installation CD. More info can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/11/28/jos-jedno-uspjesno-okupljanje/ | here]]</nowiki>.

* 17 November 2011 - Ubuntu hour organized with students from Faculty of Sciences in Podgorica. We gathered and installed Ubuntu on 5 computers. Went over initial introduction and features. We played with LAN settings and networking. We also successfully used Eclipse for the school related work. More info can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/11/18/kolege-sa-pmf-organizovali-ubuntu-hour/ | here]]</nowiki>.

* 12 November 2011 - helped organized use of Ubuntu at EE Department at University of Montenegro. Ubuntu derivative Lubuntu was installed on VMs and used for lab demo and teaching of Terminal commands (Operating Systems). More info can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/2011/11/12/ubuntu-u-nastavi-na-etf-u-u-podgorici/ | here]]</nowiki>.
