{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by Ddorda at 22:01 ==
 <''''''> yep

 <''''''> do you have a mootbot-uk PM now

 <''''''> and progress report is something mootbot doesn't have

 <''''''> [topic] using a bot @ ubuntu-il

=== using a bot @ ubuntu-il ===
 <''''''> yea, I do :D

 <''''''> [idea] using MootBot

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' using MootBot''
|}

 <''''''> Ddorda, you have to use the brackets

 <''''''> []

 <''''''> oh sorry missed that

 <''''''> doh!

 <''''''> [idea] using MootBot-uk

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' using MootBot-uk''
|}

 <''''''> Ddorda, so just use all the commands so you can see how the output looks on the log

 <''''''> [vote] using MootBot-uk (if not, using the regular one)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion:  using MootBot-uk (if not, using the regular one)''
|}
 <''''''> arm.. let me thing of it a moment... ermm....

 <''''''> +1 Id say!

 <''''''> _marx_, et all Ddorda is from the Israel LoCo tea, and they had their 1st meeting today

 <''''''> team even

 <''''''> ah outstanding Ddorda :)

 <''''''> so we had a short mootbot class in the scribes channel and I wanted him to see mootbot-uk as well

 <''''''> _marx_: :D

* '''''' saw the loco-contacts post

 <''''''> ^^

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> _marx_, just vote so he can see how the voting work

 <''''''> someone from the Mars team sent a welcome mossage

 <''''''> yea, I know! that's so funny! :D

 <''''''> uh, what am i voting on?

 <''''''> and if someone else like internalkernel could vote through a private method that would be great

 <''''''> _marx_, nothing we are just demoing the bot

 <''''''> _marx_: like.. read the logs?! doh -.-

 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> how?

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> [endvote]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 3 in favour, 0 against, 0 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 3
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:  using MootBot-uk (if not, using the regular one)
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Denied:  using MootBot-uk (if not, using the regular one)
|-
| <#55FF55>Deadlock. If someone has a casting vote now is the time to use it
|}
 <''''''> internalkernel, E.g. /msg Mootbot-UK +1 #ubuntu-us-nc

 <''''''> internalkernel: msg the bot

 <''''''> internalkernel, nevermind :-P

 <''''''> to late - I just tried... it yelled at me  :/

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> internalkernel, better it than me :-)

 <''''''> [agreed] we will use the the UK one...

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' we will use the the UK one...''
|}

 <''''''> oh.. we got to the end of the agenda so fast? wow that was quick

 <''''''> Ddorda, see you have the hang of it - that is exactly the way to use agreed

 <''''''> well you aren't finished

 <''''''> link

 <''''''> you have to end the meeting :-) but

 <''''''> but yes they are instant

 <''''''> [link]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Mootbot-UKHowTo

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Mootbot-UKHowTo''
|}

 <''''''> are we in a meeting?

 <''''''> lmao

 <''''''> internalkernel: demo run

 <''''''> internalkernel, we are demoing

 <''''''> cool... I thought I missed something

 <''''''> great meeting guys.. cya you next time :P

 <''''''> internalkernel, you are always missing something :-P

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 22:09 ==
=== People Present ===
* akgraner

* _marx_

* Ddorda

* internalkernel

=== Actions Recorded ===
