{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ashton van Niekerk ==
=== About me ===
I've loved computers since I was 4 years old. Throughout the years have honed my computer skills (mostly by breaking mine and then having to fix it), and often use my skills helping other people mostly by fixing their computers, but also by building databases and websites for small businesses. In spite of my passion for computers, my calling lies elsewhere. Already at the age of 3 I decided to one day become a pastor. Currently I am studying theology to fulfill this calling.

I'm a very curious person, living in an abstract world. Possibility matters more to me than reality. As such I often have very rich dreams and ideas, but fail to see the physical limitations preventing those dreams from becoming reality. In a team, I'm not very good as a leader. I prefer roles where I can serve freely without too much responsibility. Additionally I like to suggest fresh ideas, and think outside the box.

==== My Philosophy ====
During my studies I have encountered the philosophy of Ubuntu. Ubuntu says what we are is based upon what we are to other people. In other words, the essence of our being lies not in the individual self, but in humanity as a whole. This can be contrasted with the western philosophy of cogito ergo sum - I think therefor I am. 

According to Ubuntu I can only be a good person, by being a good person to other people. This means the moral goal of life is to be as much an asset for humanity as you can (Rom 13:10). Consequently we all have a responsibility to serve one-another. 

Jesus said:  "Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse those who have leprosy,[a] drive out demons. '''Freely you have received; freely give'''" (Mat 10:8). He was referring to the powers he gave to His disciples. He ordered them to use those powers to serve humanity - '''Freely'''. Our talents, skills and abilities are not our own. It belongs to society. Each of us have different talents to serve not just ourself but each other.

It is this philosophy which brought me to the Ubuntu OS and community. Ubuntu is not about replacing Windows or Mac, it is about a group of people each using their own talents and skills to serve humanity freely. The Ubuntu project is not about serving a project (as if we owe loyalty to it). Instead it is pointed outwardly, the project and community serving people. If I could best serve someone by installing Windows on their computer, I would. In some situations, I have done just that. 

==== Interests ====
In addition to my passion for computers, open-source and the Bible, I have a wide range of interest, including: Mathematics, Chemistry, Philosophy, Anthropology and Psychology. 

=== Future Goals ===
To start a genuinely free alternative to the current educational system - based on voluntary Internships, government support, the current MOOC system, free books and an interactive computer program that learns what you know (and do not know) and understand, and dynamically adjusts the lessons to best explain the lesson.

To start a free and web-based Church-database project.

To get more people to join the Ubuntu community.

=== Contact Info ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC (freenode)
| 
| mopkop
|-
| Email
| 
| prysdieheer@gmail.com
|-
| Launchpad
| 
| https://launchpad.net/~prysdieheer
|}

=== Contributions ===

=== Testimonials ===
