{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': 
* '''Created''': 2006-10-28
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': nautilus, libnautilus (?)

=== Summary ===
This specification described proposed information additions when a user is asked whether a file should be overwritten or not.

=== Rationale ===
A user may need to know more information about the two files in question when he is deciding if one should be overwritten by the other or not.

=== Use Cases ===
** Bob copies his documents to a memory stick for backup purposes and to be able to edit them at work.  A lot of times he has two files that have the same name and he can't remember which one is the most recent. If he could know the modification date, it would really help.

=== Scope ===
Gnome, probably mostly nautilus code.

=== Design ===
When the dialogue inquiring whether a file should be overwritten or not, it should show the modification date and the sizes of the two files so a user can make a choice which file to keep

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
Why not also show a thumbnail for known filetypes (e.g. jpeg/gif/png/etc)? That would really help. <nowiki>[[DavidDjstTenser]]</nowiki>

Yeah, good idea. <nowiki>[[Che Guevara]]</nowiki>
