{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MorganCollett ==

Hi, I am Morgan Collett.

I'm located in Cape Town, South Africa.

I've used Debian since 1998, including sysadmining http://www.thawte.com on Hamm, Slink, Potato and Woody. I have run Ubuntu as my primary OS since Warty preview.

During 2005 I was a Launchpad developer.

Currently I work for <nowiki>[[http://wiki.laptop.org|One Laptop Per Child]]</nowiki> as a developer on <nowiki>[[http://sugarlabs.org|Sugar]]</nowiki>, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Presence_Service|collaboration stack]]</nowiki> and some Sugar <nowiki>[[http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Activities|Activities]]</nowiki> including <nowiki>[[http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Chat|Chat]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Read|Read]]</nowiki>.

Launchpad Profile: https://launchpad.net/~morgan

=== Current Ubuntu Activities ===

==== Sugar Team ====

I lead the SugarTeam, which packages and maintains the <nowiki>[[http://sugarlabs.org|Sugar]]</nowiki> learning environment in Ubuntu. I am not a universe contributor or MOTU yet, but through the course of this I aim to become one.

==== Ubuntu-ZA LoCo Team ====

I co-lead Ubuntu South Africa with JonathanCarter.

=== Contact information ===

* Email me: firstname.lastname@gmail.com (use my first name and last name...)
* IRC: morgs on irc.freenode.net (usually in #ubuntu-za, #ubuntu-locoteams)
* Jabber: morgs``@``jabber.org
* Mailing Lists I read: ubuntu-devel, sounder, ubuntu-za, launchpad-users

----
CategoryHomepage
