{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This team develops (new, merge,syncs) packages related to the peer-to-peer protocol called BitTorrent, working closely with upstream. It's also the bug report for all torrent packages in launchpad.

Launchpad Homepage: https://launchpad.net/~motu-torrent 

IRC Channel: '''#ubuntu-motu-torrent''' on irc.freenode.net

== Members ==

If you are interested to join, please read the membership section. If you'll get approved, propose yourself to the motu-torrent Team. 

The members can found at the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~motu-torrent/+members|launchpad team member's page]]</nowiki>.

=== Team Membership ===

People who are interested in joining have to work closely with existing team members to learn basic procedures related  both to new packages policy and bugs triaging. 
Any new proposed member will be assigned to a specific bug (needs-packaging or needs-triaging) using the mentoring feature in launchpad and if the contribution and the support is constant and continuous, it will be approved into the team. 

== TODO ==

 - checking and fixing bugs that will be reported here https://bugs.launchpad.net/~motu-torrent/+packagebugs
 
 - introducing new packages into universe and main

 - packaging bitstorm into universe  (bluekuja) --> uploaded in Debian (Fix released)

 - packaging libtorrent-rasterbar(a lot of bittorrent clients depends on this library) (bluekuja)

 - updating gnome-btdownload to upstream version 0.0.28 (with bug fixes) (bluekuja) --> uploaded (Fix released)

 - packaging qbittorent (needs libtorrent-rasterbar) (bluekuja) 
 
 - packaging linkage (http://zeflunk.googlepages.com) into universe (pochu)

 - packaging torrentbubbles (http://freshmeat.net/projects/torrentbubbles/) (dktrkranz)

== Testing and triaging ==

The team is really interested in getting more support from the testing/bug triaging side. Actually new packages committed into the archive providing bug fixes need to be tested into gutsy (using a gutsy chroot for example).
Packages that need testing:

** gnome-btdownload
                   - upstream url   : http://gnome-bt.sf.net

                   - .deb file (ubuntu-new) : <nowiki>[[ftp://gnome-btdownload.alioth.debian.org/pub/gnome-btdownload/gnome-btdownload_0.0.28-0ubuntu1_all.deb|here]]</nowiki>

                   - .deb file (debian-new) : <nowiki>[[ftp://gnome-btdownload.alioth.debian.org/pub/gnome-btdownload/gnome-btdownload_0.0.28-1_all.deb|here]]</nowiki>

                   - .deb file (ubuntu-old) : <nowiki>[[ftp://gnome-btdownload.alioth.debian.org/pub/gnome-btdownload/gnome-btdownload_0.0.25-1ubuntu1_all.deb|here]]</nowiki>

                   - .deb file (debian-old) : <nowiki>[[ftp://gnome-btdownload.alioth.debian.org/pub/gnome-btdownload/gnome-btdownload_0.0.25-1_all.deb|here]]</nowiki>

                   - launchpad bugs : https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-btdownload

                   - packaging project homepage: http://alioth.debian.org/projects/gnome-btdownload/

                   - mailing list: http://lists.alioth.debian.org/mailman/listinfo/gnome-btdownload-devel

   
== Packages bug contact ==

We take care of every torrent-related package. Feel free to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~motu-torrent/+packagebugs|take a look at them]]</nowiki>. If you think that we're missing any package, please let us know.

== Bazaar branches ==

In order to easily manage torrent packages, our team will manage source code of the maintained package using Bazaar branches on Launchpad. You can view such branches here: https://code.launchpad.net/~motu-torrent/.

Team members can upload directly into branches, non-members can only view and download them using `bzr branch` application.

If you are not confident with Bazaar, take a look here: http://bazaar-vcs.org/.

== Package List ==

All packages that will be done by any team member will be listed here:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package Name
| Maintainer
| Version in Ubuntu
| Latest Upstream Version
| Available in Debian
|-
| ctorrent enhanced
| Andrea Veri
| 1.3.4-dnh3-0ubuntu1
| dnh3
| yes
|-
| gtorrent-viewer
| Andrea Veri
| 0.2b-0ubuntu1
| 0.2b
| yes
|-
| bitstormlite
| Andrea Veri
| 0.2k-1
| 0.2k
| yes
|-
| gnome-btdownload
| Andrea Veri
| 0.0.28-0ubuntu1
| 0.0.28
| yes
|-
| clutch
| JohnDong
| 0.4-0ubuntu1
| 0.4
| no (TODO)
|}

<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[MOTUTeams]]</nowiki>
