{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Ubuntu MOTU Meeting, 7th of September 2005

Present at the meeting were: <nowiki>[[DanielHolbach]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[OliverGrawert]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[StephanHermann]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[BarrydeFreese]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[AndrewMitchell]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[StefanPotyra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LoicPefferkorn]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[SebastianDröge]]</nowiki>

==== Agenda ====
 
 1. Status of Transitions 
** C++ transition has gone well, http://cerberus.0c3.net/~adconrad/frozenapps.txt lists very few packages 
    The major remaining work is <nowiki>[[UniverseUnmetDeps]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MOTUGLUTransition]]</nowiki>
** As for <nowiki>[[MOTUGhc6Transition]]</nowiki>, Lamont has been busy fixing & it is now working again. Packages Build-Depending on it will be uploaded ASAP
** Packages with install dependencies/build dependencies not already in breezy will be ignored unless it's an easy fix. Some may be <nowiki>[[MorgueCandidates]]</nowiki>
 1. Malone bug policies
** We discussed <nowiki>[[MOTU/Bugs/MaloneUsage]]</nowiki>
** In summary - when working on a bug, universe bugs are assigned to 'MOTU', bug status is set to 'Accepted', with a comment.
** The other main issue is handling of bugs in 'main'
*** < ogra> so until malone is for main too, i'd propose to close them with a predefined note
*** The submitter will be notified by this close notice to submit their bug in bugzilla if it still exists
*** We plan to discuss this issue on the ubuntu-devel mailing list
  
 1. Malone Bug Love Day 
** This is going to be a day (or 48 hours, as usual) in #ubuntu-bugs, where we make a concerted effort to help users file bugs, and to close bugs that are on Malone.
** The Bug Love Day is scheduled on Saturday 17th September, for all timezones.
** We will announce this on the mailing lists & call for people to help out where they can.

 1. Rotating of time for meeting
** Meeting times will alternate between Wednesday 22:00 UTC & Thursday 12:00 UTC

 1. '''Next meeting is 22nd September, 12:00 UTC'''

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings]]</nowiki>'''.[[BR]
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
