{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== wx2.4 Migration ===

wxwindows2.4 is not built with Unicode support in Ubuntu, does not work with python2.5, and depends on the now aging GTK+ 1.2.  There are only a few packages that still depend on wxwindows2.4, all of which depend on libwxgtk2.4-1 or python-wxgtk2.4.  If these can all be migrated, wxwindows2.4 may be removed from the repositories, the affected applications will suffer fewer internationalisation and interface bug reports, and the final migration away from python 2.4 will be easier.  A snapshot list of packages and status follows:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Notes
| Claim
|-
| audacity
| SYNC from Debian requested
| Done
|-
| ctsim
| Needs debugging: package builds with wx2.6, but crashes
| Done (latest version uses wx2.8)
|-
| ecos
| Removed from the archive
| Done
|-
| freqtweak
| Patch accepted upstream
| Done
|-
| gnue-deisgner
| Uses wx in some complex ways, upstream hasn't hacked on it for a long time
| Removed
|-
| gnue-forms
| New upstream being uploaded to debian
| Removed
|-
| jugglemaster
| wxString issues
| Done
|-
| newpki-client
| Needs coordination of gettext and wxWidgets
| Done
|-
| plucker-desktop
| -desktop binary package dropped
| Done
|-
| sooperlooper
| Build-Depends change only
| Done
|-
| survex-aven
| Needs patch & upstream coordination
| Done
|-
| thuban
| SYNC from Debian requested
| Done
|-
| trustedqsl
| Build-Depends change only
| Done
|-
| wstools
| Removal requested
| Done
|}

If anyone wants to help, feel free to patch any of the packages unclaimed above.  The conversion mostly consists of the following:

# wrap all character and string literals in wxT() (e.g. foo = wxT("Hello");)
# use converters in wxString constructors (e.g. foo = wxString(cString, wxConvUTF8);)
# properly convert back to C strings (generally (const char*) bar.mb_str)
# Modify event handling to separate wxScrollEvent, wxSpinEvent, and wxMenuEvent from wxCommandEvent.

If you are working on a patch, please put your name or handle above, so someone else (probably me) doesn't start working on the same patch.

From Karmic, wx2.4 has been removed from the repositories.
