{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Welcome to the MOTU Science team. We are responsible for the upkeep of science packages within the Universe repository. Check out the <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/science/|Science]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/math/|Mathematics]]</nowiki>, and the <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/electronics/|Electronics]]</nowiki> sections of the repositories for packages that might fall under this category.

=== Members ===
* <nowiki>[[JordanMantha]]</nowiki> (Laser''''''Jock)
* <nowiki>[[MichaelRimbert]]</nowiki> (tritium or mrimbert)
* <nowiki>[[MingHua]]</nowiki> (minghua)
* <nowiki>[[ChrisPeterman]]</nowiki> (Kyral)
* <nowiki>[[KevinGoldstein]]</nowiki> (parktownprawn)
* <nowiki>[[EricBarron]]</nowiki> (macgyver2)
* <nowiki>[[SethKinast]]</nowiki> (seth)
* BaishampayanGhose (G0SUB)
* <nowiki>[[Aanjhan]]</nowiki> (tuxmaniac)
* WilliamGrant (Fujitsu)
* MortenKjeldgaard (mok0)
* AndreaColangelo (warp10)
* <nowiki>[[TimShaggyBielawa]]</nowiki> (tbielawa)
* <nowiki>[[NickEllery]]</nowiki> (nellery)
* <nowiki>[[BhavaniShankar]]</nowiki> (coolbhavi)
* <nowiki>[[ScottHoward]]</nowiki> (showard314)
* <nowiki>[[KamalMostafa]]</nowiki> (kamalmostafa)
* <nowiki>[[VibhavPant]]</nowiki> (vibhavp)
* and you...
** See <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/motuscience|this]]</nowiki> Launchpad team page, and join us in #ubuntu-motu on irc.freenode.net.

* MOTUScience mailing list (ubuntu-science) can be found at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-motu-science

=== Goals ===

* Make sure science packages are synced from Debian.
* Make sure Debian knows what packages are in Ubuntu but not in Debian.
* Make sure Ubuntu science packages actually work. Some need to be tested and bug reports need to be filed.
* Package some of the programs found at <nowiki>[[http://www.gnomefiles.org/category.php?cat_id=6|gnomefiles.org]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.kde-apps.org/index.php?xcontentmode=280|kde-apps.org]]</nowiki> and UbuntuScience for inclusion into Ubuntu/Debian.

=== Ubuntu and Debian Packages ===

Lists of source packages with their Debian and Ubuntu versions.

==== Ubuntu Natty ====

* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/science.html#outdatedinB|Outdated in Natty i.e SID > Natty]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/science.html#outdatedandlocalinB|Outdated in Natty, and Natty has local changes]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/multidistrotools/science.html#notinB|Not in Natty. Available in SID]]</nowiki>

=== Packages we would like to include in Universe ===
These are programs that are not yet packaged for Debian/Ubuntu but would be nice to have:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php?soft_id=1123|FlowDesigner]]</nowiki> - "Flow''''''Designer is a free (GPL/LGPL) data flow oriented development environment. It can be used to build complex applications by combining small, reusable building blocks. In some ways, it is similar to both Simulink and Lab''''''View, but is hardly a clone of either." (Kyral is looking into this) -- Its in REVU now - (Kyral)
* <nowiki>[[http://frsl06.physik.uni-freiburg.de/privat/stille/kpl/|Kpl]]</nowiki> - a program for two- and three-dimensional graphical presentation of data sets and functions.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.openclinica.org/|OpenClinica]]</nowiki> - is a web-based Clinical Data Management Software (CDMS) platform.
* <nowiki>[[http://opencircuitdesign.com/magic/|Magic VLSI]]</nowiki> - a venerable VLSI layout tool. [Tracked via <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/185434|bug #185434]]</nowiki>]
* <nowiki>[[http://www-asim.lip6.fr/recherche/alliance/|Alliance VHDL]]</nowiki> - a complete set of free CAD tools and portable libraries for VLSI design. (Package in revu already and review points closure in progress. <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?package=alliance|REVU Link]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.toped.org.uk/index.html|Toped]]</nowiki> - open source cross-platform IC layout editor, based on openGL and wxWidgets.
* <nowiki>[[http://opencircuitdesign.com/netgen/|Netgen]]</nowiki> - Netgen is a tool for comparing netlists, a process known as LVS, which stands for "Layout vs. Schematic". This is an important step in the integrated circuit design flow, ensuring that the geometry that has been laid out matches the expected circuit. ''Note: This could cause a namespace pollution problem with another package with similar name already available.''
* <nowiki>[[http://opencircuitdesign.com/irsim/|IRSIM]]</nowiki> - Switch level simulator. (Uploaded already to Debian Mentors. Package link http://mentors.debian.net/debian/pool/main/i/irsim)

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[UbuntuScience]]</nowiki> has a good intro to science related packages.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=29919|UbuntuForum]]</nowiki> thread
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/?DebianScience|DebianScience]]</nowiki> wiki
* <nowiki>[[http://debian.wgdd.de/|Daniel Leidert's Chemisty repo]]</nowiki>

-----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryScience
