{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Becoming a Mentor ===

So you're sure about helping others to join effectively our community?

* Be sure to specify if you just want to help new contributors or if you think you have what its needed to help prospective MOTUs.
* Be sure about how many mentoring slots you offer and for which program.
* If you want to help new contributors, be prepared to answer many questions, be patient and don't be disappointed if your mentee will give up. Ubuntu development is not for everybody and it takes time and a serious commitment.
* Be prepared, set-up a working plan and how you want to coordinate the work of your mentee (IRC, email, Launchpad). Try to setup a dedicated time of the day/week to review the status with him and decide about his near future activities.
* For new contributors, have easy tasks at hand you can give your mentee to start off with. These might be:
** easy merges,
** easy bugs (use the +mentoring option in LP for that),
** easy fixes for ftbfs, unmet deps, etc.
* For expert contributors, try to have your mentee to work on as many different aspects of development as possible.
* Encourage your mentee to keep a detailed record of his work on his wiki page.
* Email the Mentoring Reception (motu-mentoring-reception@reponses.net).

=== Updates ===

Please notify the Reception in case:
* you have a free slot again,
* your contributor loses interest,
* you don't want to be mentoring anymore,
* you need help.

=== Best Practices ===

* Ask the contributor you take care of to take notes on a personal wiki page. This page can 
** list his contributions,
** point out what (s)he is working on,
** collect notes, which are useful for others,
** be useful for the MC once (s)he applies for MOTUship.
* Ask new contributors to subscribe to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-motu-mentors|MOTU Mentors mailing list]]</nowiki>.
* Add a request to <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide/Wishlist]]</nowiki> if you or your mentee have problems with documentation.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU/Mentoring]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
