{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Security Team ==
The Ubuntu Linux Security Team takes care on the vulnerabilities within the universe repositories packages, and also on the deployment of so-called proactive security technologies and intrusion prevention technologies in a right (user friendly, well tested and developed...) manner.

=== Goals ===
* Security updates.
** We want to make sure that Universe packages are not vulnerable, therefore we review fixes and integrate them into Universe packages.
** https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-cve-tracker
** http://lists.debian.org/debian-security-announce/debian-security-announce-2005/threads.html
** Some useful Debian links:
** http://security-tracker.debian.net
** http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/secure-testing/data/NMU/list?op=file&rev=0&sc=0
** http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/secure-testing/data/CVE/list?op=file&rev=0&sc=0
* Ubuntu Security Notices (USNs).
* Hardened Debian deployment
** SELinux support and deployment.
** ProactiveSecurity technologies implementation.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Security/HardeningWrapper|HardeningWrapper]]</nowiki> implementation and deployment.
* Support and usability improvement.

=== People ===

https://launchpad.net/~motu-swat

https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-whitehat

=== More information ===
* Hardened Debian: http://www.debian-hardened.org
* Hardened Debian Wiki: http://wiki.debian-hardened.org

=== Status ===

=== Future ===

<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
