{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


MOTU meeting, 10. March 2006

Full log can be found at <nowiki>[[http://tiber.tauware.de/~sistpoty/motuminutes/motu_minutes_2006_03_10.log]]</nowiki>.

==== People present ====
* StefanPotyra aka sistpoty 
* SzilveszterFarkas aka phanatic 
* CoreyBurger aka Burgwork (who lurked)
* OliverGrawert aka ogra (who watched from a distance)
* AnthonyMercatante aka Tonio_
* BrandonHale aka tseng (who watched less than ogra)
* RaphaelPinson aka raphink (who joined a bit later)

==== Agenda ====

 1) Short introduction to the new MOTU workflow tool (sistpoty)

==== Discussion ====

 1) citing sistpoty: "You can find this list at <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/~sistpoty/MoM/wip.py]]</nowiki>. It works pretty simple: you file a bug with a title with "accepted work" in it and assign it to universe-bugs or motu-reviewers and it should pop up in the list. If you mark a bug as "fix released" or "rejected", it should vanish from the list again." Burgwork suggested to display the IRC-nick (and maybe link to the wiki-page) in the list. sistpoty stated, that he'll look into this. [A short discussions of technical details followed, which I'll skip here].

==== Other business ====

* The next time and date for a MOTU-Meeting will be handled via the ubuntu-motu ML. 
* Since sistpoty was a little bit disappointed for the short meeting and few people being there, raphink stated, that most MOTU's are focusing on main right now and there is no big work in universe to do apart from bug fixing.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
