{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Haskell ===
Haskell is an advanced purely functional programming language. An open source product of more than twenty years of cutting edge research, it allows rapid development of robust, concise, correct software. With strong support for integration with other languages, built-in concurrency and parallelism, debuggers, profilers, rich libraries and an active community, Haskell makes it easier to produce flexible, maintainable high-quality software.

(taken from <nowiki>[[http://www.haskell.org]]</nowiki>)

=== Language Reference/Standards ===
* Homepage: http://www.haskell.org
* Haskell98 Report: http://www.haskell.org/definition/
* Tutorials: http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/Meta-tutorial

=== Compilers/Interpreters ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.haskell.org/ghc/|ghc]]</nowiki>
** Optimizing native-code compiler and bytecode interpreter. The implementation used by the vast majority of the Haskell community.
** Conforms to Haskell '98 and supports <nowiki>[[http://www.haskell.org/ghc/docs/latest/html/users_guide/ghc-language-features.html|many extensions]]</nowiki>.
** Debian package: ghc
* <nowiki>[[http://www.haskell.org/nhc98/|nhc98]]</nowiki>
** Compiles haskell to small executables that run in small amounts of memory.
** conforms to haskell98, excepting these <nowiki>[[http://www.cs.york.ac.uk/fp/nhc98/98.html|deficiences]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.haskell.org/hugs/|hugs]]</nowiki>
** Interpreter for haskell
** conforms to haskell98
** debian package: hugs

=== Packaging Haskell ===
* There is a debian policy for packaging haskell: http://pkg-haskell.alioth.debian.org/haskell-policy/
* Mailing list debian-haskell: http://lists.debian.org/debian-haskell/
* DebianWiki page: DebianWiki:Haskell
* TODO: notes about haskell-utils
* TODO: notes about cabal
* TODO: notes about haskell-devscripts

=== Which MOTU has knowledge? ===
* IainLane (laney)
* SebastianDröge (slomo)
* StefanPotyra (sistpoty)

<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
