{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

MOTU Meeting Minutes for Friday, September 21st, 2007, 12:00UTC.

=== Sponsorship process and PPAs ===
Scott Kitterman (ScottK) wanted the sponsorship process, particularly the alternative process of using a PPA for sponsored uploads clarrified. He felt it was necessary, at least for him, to have a debdiff attached to a sponsorship bug for reviewing of a package, and felt it was more time consuming to have to grab a .dsc file, download the package, and manually create a debdiff. It was decided tht atht ppaput tool, which is part of ubuntu-dev-tools, should have an option to generate a debdiff, and while users could use their ppa, debdiff should still be requested. Daniel Holbach (dholbach) stated that he would work on adding the needed functionality to ppaput.

=== The TODO ===
Dholbach pointed out that https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/TODO has now got additional content to draw attention to bugs needing attention for new contributers. The lists are easy to update, but they require people to tag bugs as packaging or bytesize, if the person reviewing the bug doesn't have time to fix it themselves. Everybody is requested to help with this effort.

=== Wiki reorganisation ===
Dholbach has started working on cleaning up the wiki, once and for all, as seen on the MOTU Mailing List. He intends to make lists of pages that need work, through taggint them. They will be then up for comment. Once again, he requests others to help getting the pages sorted, particularly the documentation, which has een known to be confusing or out of date on many occasions.

=== Next meeting ===
It was decided that two weeks from this meeting is appropriate, but a time wasn't agree upon. Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) offered to post to the MOTU Mailing List, requesting suggestions on what time the meeting should be held.

=== Universe Hug Day ===
Since these tend to not occur, or only a few peope participate, it was decided to role the Universe hug days into the general hug days, that are announced on most mailing lists, and occur regularly. The option is still open in the future for universe hug days to be a separate event.

=== MOTU Q&A Sessions ===
dholbach intennds to run a Q&A session on Friday, September 28th, at 12:00UTC, in #ubuntu-motu. All who can help out, or who have questions, are free to come along and participate.
