{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== The MOTU Java Growers ===

The <nowiki>[[MOTUJava]]</nowiki> team (aka "The MOTU Java Growers") are the people who take care of all the Java-related packages in the Ubuntu Universe.

=== Goals ===
 
* Take care of all Java packages in Universe
* Brew ''kaffe''-ine for the Ubuntu community ;)
* ...

=== TODO ===

* Merge Java packages in Universe, see <nowiki>[[http://merges.ubuntu.com/universe.html|Universe pending merges]]</nowiki>
* Reorganize the team
* open ppa for members to host various java packages (ie experimental, snapshot versions etc) : suggested by <nowiki>[[rzr]]</nowiki>
* ...

=== Getting Involved ===

If you are interested to join, don't hesitate to contact ZakElep (zakame).  Also, if you're in Launchpad, add yourself to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~motujava|motujava]]</nowiki> Team.

=== Online Meetings ===

There's a new IRC channel on FreeNode (#ubuntu-motujava) to coordinate MOTUJava work.  Don't hesitate to stop by and chat!

=== Roadmap ===

MOTUJava aims to maintain Java packages in the Ubuntu Universe, as well as to introduce new Java packages to Ubuntu.  Still, we need directions for our work; any ideas on how to do this would be nice!

=== More Information ===

* http://wiki.debian.org/Java
* <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/debian-java-faq/ch7.html|Debian Java FAQ]]</nowiki>

=== Status ===

'''INITIAL STAGE'''.  Please help me! :)

We now have several interested members in the Launchpad team, so coordination is needed.

=== Future ===

We hope that someday we'll have a completely free Java system in Ubuntu.  Help us realize it! :)

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[MOTUTeams]]</nowiki>
