{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Information for Experienced Contributors ==

=== What is a Mentor ===

* A mentor will
** help you to fine tune your skills and cover areas where you are weak,
** help you to widen your knowledge spectrum,
** help you to prepare your application,
** support you in your application.

* What a Mentor is ''NOT'' (unless he is willing to do so):
** your personal reviewer,
** thinking for you,
** providing patches or code,
** your dedicated contact point.

=== So you're serious about becoming a MOTU? ===

E-mail the Mentoring Reception (motu-mentoring-reception@reponses.net) to request a mentor. In your application please include the following:

1. General information about you.
2. Information about your technical background, since how long you have been contributing, what areas you have been working on and what you think are your weak spots.
3. Your main area of interests, if there is a particular package or group of packages that you are interested in helping out with, or particular aspects of development you would like to focus on.
4. Links to your launchpad and wiki pages.
5. A detailed list of your contributing activities, including a list of bugs which you have been working on with particular attention on bugs you are particularly proud of (please use urls in your list).

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU-Mentoring]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
