{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page gathers information for the "Reduce the Delta with Upstream" effort by the MOTU Science Team.  This is answering Sebastien Bacher's <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2006-October/022121.html|proposal]]</nowiki> to the ubuntu-devel list.  The Desktop Team has started working and has a <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam/UpstreamDelta|wiki page]]</nowiki> for their progress, this page should become similar once the work on the MOTU Science front starts.

There is an important difference between the desktop packages and the science packages though: while the upstream of most desktop packages are either GNOME or KDE, the upstream of science packages are quite diverse.  In my (MingHua) opinion it is probably a good idea to report our changes to Debian first, and let the Debian maintainer contact the upstream.  We can deal with the packages without active Debian maintainer by ourselves later.

The starting point is the <nowiki>[[http://tiber.tauware.de/~laserjock/motuscience/feisty/all.html|status page]]</nowiki> about the version difference between Debian and Ubuntu for science packages (note some of the packages listed are in main, though).  It would be nice if everyone working on this can record his/her intention and progress on this page, so that duplicated effort can be avoided.

=== Progress Tracking ===

Just to show who is working on what, to avoid duplicate work.

MingHua:  working on "same version, but Ubuntu has local changes" list, from bottom up, starting at ygraph.

WilliamGrant:  will take care of python-scipy.

=== Status ===

===== alps-light1: =====
** Added conflicts/replaces on *c2a packages. Debian never had them, but Dapper did.

===== avida: =====
** Added .desktop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/avida/+bug/36364|LP bug 36364]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== bugsx: =====
** Added .desktop <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/bugsx/+bug/30110|LP bug 30110]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== cernlib: =====
** Added .desktop.

===== chemtool: =====
** Added .desktop.
** Moved openbabel to Depends.

===== circ-tex: =====
** Changed fmtutil to fmtutil-sys in postinst. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/circ-tex/+bug/39914|LP bug 39914]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== dx: =====
** Added .desktop.

===== edenmath.app: =====
** Fixed typo in description. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/circ-tex/+bug/55799|LP bug 55799]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== electric: =====
** Added .desktop and icon. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/circ-tex/+bug/44734|LP bug 44734]]</nowiki>

===== euler: =====
** Change CLK_TCK to CLOCKS_PER_SEC to fix FTBFS.

===== g3data: =====
** Added .desktop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/36374|LP bug 36374]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== gbase: =====
** Added .desktop.

===== gcx: =====
** Added .desktop and icon. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/33662|LP bug 33662]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== gdpc: =====
** Added .desktop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/36377|LP bug 36377]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== geda-gschem: =====
** Install .desktop file.
** Install print and image scm files.

===== geomview: =====
** Install .desktop file. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/47434|LP bug 47434]]</nowiki>

===== glpk: =====
** -fPIC in CFLAGS for 64-bit arches, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/glpk/+bug/6162|LP bug 6162]]</nowiki>.
** -D_GLPLIB_HUGEMEM in CFLAGS for 64-bit arches, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/glpk/+bug/46617|LP bug 46617]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=363514|Debian #363514]]</nowiki>, still in discussion.

===== gperiodic: =====
** Cleanup .desktop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/33577|LP bug 33577]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== gwave: =====
** Added .desktop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/44806|LP bug 44806]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== labplot: =====
** Added dh_iconcache.

===== liblip: =====
** Remove {foo,bar} bashisms in debian/rules.

===== magnus: =====
** Added .desktop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/49761|LP bug 49761]]</nowiki>

===== maxima: =====
** Comment out backward-delete-char-untabify in maxima.el. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/5273|LP bug 5273]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== oleo: =====

** '''TODO'''

===== python-scipy: =====
** Python 2.5-compatibility fixes:
*** Move __future__ imports to start of maxent{tropy,utils}.py, otherwise the installation fails.
*** debian/rules: Moved removal of x86 shared objects to inside loop. Fixes FTBFS.

===== qtdmm: =====
** Install .desktop and icon into correct locations.

===== scigraphica: =====
** Python 2.4 transition:
*** Dump 2.4 in python2.4-{dev,numeric}.
** debian/scigraphica.files: Remove desktop entry, we use dh_desktop.
** debian/scigraphica.menu: Lintian clean-up: use quoted strings.
** Tighten some build dependencies.

===== starplot: =====
** Added .desktop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/starplot/+bug/36441|LP bug 36441]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== survex: =====
** Added .desktop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/survex/+bug/36442|LP bug 36442]]</nowiki> ''Unforwarded''

===== tkgate: =====
** Added .desktop and icon.

===== vipec: =====
** Added .desktop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/vipec/+bug/45530|LP bug 45530]]</nowiki>

===== x10-automate: =====
** Added .desktop, install icon in correct place. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/x10-automate/+bug/46456|LP bug 46456]]</nowiki>

===== xeukleides: =====
** desktop file, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xeukleides/+bug/49668|LP bug 49668]]</nowiki>, sent upstream according to the LP bug.

===== xtide: =====
** desktop file, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xtide/+bug/36449|LP bug 36449]]</nowiki>.

===== ygraph: =====
** desktop file, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ygraph/+bug/36450|LP bug 36450]]</nowiki>, reported to Debian as <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=396673|bug 396673]]</nowiki> and fixed.
** a bunch of build system changes, should be residue of improperly cleaned build and unintentional, and should be removed on next merge.
** sync requested at <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ygraph/+bug/72354|#72354]]</nowiki>.
