{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== People present ==

Took part in the meeting:

RaphaelPinson (raphink), StefanPotyra (sistpoty), DanielHolbach (dholbach), JonathanRiddell (Riddell), JordanMantha (Laserjock), GustavoFranco (stratus), PatrickDavies (jpatrick), sivang, LukasFittl (lfittl), psusi, Nafallo

== Agenda ==

* '''add your agenda points (and your nick) here'''  
* RaphaelPinson : Introducing REVU-Tools (<nowiki>[[MOTU/Packages/REVU/REVU-Tools]]</nowiki>). Future of it : be linked to/merged with mdt ?
* StefanPotyra: allegro4.1 to allegro4.2 transition? (see mail to -motu).
* StefanPotyra: some coordination of work (who works on what package, what syncs are requested)... wiki for that?

== Full log ==

The full log can be found on <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/MOTU_2005-12-15]]</nowiki>

== Discussion ==

=== REVU-Tools ===

Raphaël Pinson introduced REVU-Tools, a set of bash scripts to help reviewing packages. It has been uploaded to Dapper and is waiting to be taken in.
Plans are to use MultiDistroTools to improve its features. Gustavo Franco proposed to move it to bzr. Inclusion in REVU2 has been talked about too.

=== Allegro transition ===

Stefan Potyra proposed to take an allegro4.1 to 4.2 transition, which has already been taken in Debian. This is a small transition, and Stefan proposed to take it alone.

=== Coordination of the MOTU work ===

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
