{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Friday, February 23rd, 10.00h UTC

=== New source package policy ===
  Proposal: drop current requirement of 2 ACKs for new source packages from ubuntu-dev members

  Decision: unanimous approval

=== Exceptions for new source packages during Feature Freeze (FF) ===
  Proposal: have motu-uvf LP team consider FF exception requests up until <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeistyReleaseSchedule|beta freeze]]</nowiki> (~Mar 15)

  Decision: unanimous approval

=== 'Hard freeze' for universe in the last week of the Feisty development cycle ===
  Proposal: during the last week of feisty cycle, require 1 ACK from an motu-uvf member prior to uploading source

  Decision: unanimous approval

=== motu-uvf LP team maintenance ===
  Proposal: expand motu-uvf to 5 members (from its current 3)

  Decision: 4 in favor, 1 neutral

  Additional notes: Andrew & Daniel C. will join motu-uvf.

=== MOTU LP team cleanup ===
  Proposal: turn ownership of the MOTU LP team over to the Ubuntu Technical Board (TB)

  Decision: 4 in favor, 1 neutral

  Additional notes: Stefan will initiate the cleanup. Later, discuss adding a universe-bugs LP team.

=== Gracefully handling developer (MOTU) "timeout" ===
  Proposal: ask inactive developers every half a year (if they have not been sufficiently visible)

  Decision: unanimous approval

  Additional notes: Daniel H., Andrew, and Gauvain will process ubuntu-dev (soon to migrate [back] to motu) as proposed above.

=== Scheduling the next MOTU meeting ===
  Proposal: Mar 6th 20.00h UTC

  Decision: 4 in favor, 1 absent (Gauvain had prior commitment)

=== Scheduling the next MOTU Council meeting ===
  Proposal: Mar 16th 10.00h UTC

  Decision: 4 in favor, 1 absent (Gauvain had prior commitment)

=== MOTU/TODO updates ===
  Review Universe/Multiverse bugs with patches attached (add link here)

  Review Debian RC fixes

  Look at UnmetDeps list (maybe file bugs again)

  Ask for rebuild test - ask for transitions that have not happened yet -> ubuntu-devel-discuss@

  Review packages that FTBFS (list from lucas)

  Generally fix universe/multiverse bugs

  Tag bugs as 'bitesize' and 'packaging'

=== Next MOTU meeting ===
The next MOTU meeting will take place on
Tuesday, Mar 6th, 20.00h UTC.

=== Next MOTU Council meeting ===
The next MOTU Council meeting will take place on
Friday, Mar 16th, 10.00h UTC.
