{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by tumbleweed at 16:09:16 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-09-06-16.09.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

Review of previous action items

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings/2012-08-23
* No action items

Update from DeveloperAdvisoryTeam
 
* coolbhavi gave a session on DAT this UOW/UDW

Killing off sqlite 2 (src:sqlite)

* Tracker says down to ~25 packages, a large chunk being the gpe stack (palm stuff)
* ACTION: xnox to speak to the debian gpe maintainers about dropping it (it depends on sqlite)

Review UbuntuDevelopment/BugFixingInitiative

* dholbach wrote an article for the packaging guide to make it easier to make a decision where a specific bug fix should go, to ease concerns about the sponsorship queue filling up with things that should go to Debain

Meeting ended at 16:26:25 UTC.

=== Action items ===

* xnox to speak to the debian gpe maintainers about dropping it (it depends on sqlite)

=== Action items, by person ===

* xnox
* * xnox to speak to the debian gpe maintainers about dropping it (it depends on sqlite)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* tumbleweed (28)
* dholbach (13)
* xnox (10)
* micahg (8)
* coolbhavi (6)
* meetingology (4)

=== Full Log ===

 16:09:16 <tumbleweed> #startmeeting weekly MOTU meeting

 16:09:16 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Sep  6 16:09:16 2012 UTC.  The chair is tumbleweed. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:09:16 <meetingology> 

 16:09:16 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:09:28 <tumbleweed> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings

 16:09:40 <coolbhavi> tumbleweed, I missed the previous meeting though I have news from DAT side

 16:10:08 <tumbleweed> #topic review of previous action items

 16:10:13 <tumbleweed> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings/2012-08-23

 16:10:43 <tumbleweed> hrm, there were none

 16:11:00 <tumbleweed> #topic Killing off sqlite 2 (src:sqlite)

 16:11:00 <coolbhavi> yes

 16:11:03 <tumbleweed> micahg: around?

 16:12:30 <tumbleweed> oh, well, if he turns up...

 16:12:49 <tumbleweed> #topic Update from DeveloperAdvisoryTeam

 16:12:53 <tumbleweed> coolbhavi?

 16:13:37 <micahg> o/

 16:14:25 <tumbleweed> we can come back to that, after this

 16:14:31 <dholbach> I'm here too :)

 16:14:47 <dholbach> not many news from the DAT, business as usual :)

 16:14:57 <coolbhavi> yep tumbleweed there was one of action items this UDS to give a session on DAT this UOW/UDW I took a session this UDW reg the same logs are here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/devweek1208/DevAdvisoryTeam

 16:15:18 <coolbhavi> apart from that no other news

 16:15:22 <dholbach> ah yes, good job coolbhavi

 16:15:24 <tumbleweed> thanks

 16:15:39 <tumbleweed> #topic Killing off sqlite 2 (src:sqlite)

 16:15:47 <tumbleweed> micahg: all yours

 16:15:48 <micahg> nothing new yet

 16:16:13 <micahg> well, xnox fixed the tracker a little more to get us down to ~25 packages

 16:16:29 <tumbleweed> that sounds doable, with some effort

 16:16:46 <xnox> there are decisions to be made. There is the whole stack for working with Palm phones (original Palm)

 16:16:54 <xnox> if we drop that, porting the rest should be easy

 16:17:00 <micahg> yeah, I probably won't be able to do much with it until the end of the month though, so if someone else wans to, feel free

 16:17:04 <xnox> was it like half of those 25 packages?

 16:17:13 <micahg> xnox: have you spoken with Debian at all?

 16:17:24 <xnox> micahg: that is the next action to do

 16:18:56 <tumbleweed> xnox: you taking an action for that?

 16:19:08 <xnox> sure =)

 16:19:33 <tumbleweed> what's the plam stack called?

 16:19:47 <micahg> gpe*

 16:20:08 <tumbleweed> #action xnox to speak to the debian gpe maintainers about dropping it (it depends on sqlite)

 16:20:08 * meetingology xnox to speak to the debian gpe maintainers about dropping it (it depends on sqlite)

 16:20:24 <tumbleweed> moving on

 16:20:31 <tumbleweed> #topic Review UbuntuDevelopment/BugFixingInitiative

 16:20:53 <dholbach> I had a chat with a couple of people in #ubuntu-devel and wrote about it to the mailing list

 16:20:54 <tumbleweed> anything this week? I think not?

 16:21:04 <tumbleweed> oh, yes saw that

 16:21:07 <dholbach> there were concerns that some fixes would better be sent to Debian

 16:21:08 <xnox> yeah.

 16:21:21 <xnox> I added fontfixing & seems like some/most have been sponsored now.

 16:21:24 <dholbach> and also that the sponsoring queue might fill up with trivial fixes, which I feel is a lesser issue

 16:21:26 <dholbach> thanks xnox!

 16:21:39 <xnox> Do we need to check remaining  $font packages to see if they are ok or not?

 16:21:50 <dholbach> I wrote an article for the packaging guide to make it easier to make a decision where a specific bug fix should go

 16:22:01 <tumbleweed> have we seen a reasonable influx since UDW?

 16:22:07 <micahg> xnox: well, someone should probably :), perhaps an archive scan?

 16:22:12 <dholbach> I hope that will help solve the issue of debian fixes going to ubuntu

 16:22:21 <tumbleweed> I've certainly noticed some trivial things in the queue that could have come from UDW

 16:22:38 <dholbach> tumbleweed, yes - there's a lot of interest - next week I hope to start hangout sessions, etc to help get more people involved

 16:22:45 <xnox> micahg: meh. Grep Contents, install it and either run font-config over them & launch some app =)

 16:23:27 <micahg> xnox: is the problem only visible at run time, or should a regex detect it? (think lintian lab scan)

 16:24:00 <dholbach> that's all I have for now

 16:24:25 <tumbleweed> that's all we have on the agenda

 16:24:30 <tumbleweed> #topic any other business?

 16:25:01 <dholbach> not from me

 16:25:08 <coolbhavi> dholbach, timings of the hangout please? I'd love to join :)

 16:25:20 <dholbach> coolbhavi, not sure yet, but I'll let you know :)

 16:25:21 <xnox> micahg: lintian can, not sure if it already does.

 16:25:32 <coolbhavi> dholbach, sure thanks!

 16:26:19 <tumbleweed> ok, let's wind this up

 16:26:25 <tumbleweed> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
