{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting Minutes for 2008-02-01 ==
'''Start:''' 20:04 UTC <<BR>>
'''End:''' 21:39 UTC <<BR>>
'''Log:''' http://kryten.incognitus.net/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-meeting.log.20080201_2004.html <<BR>>
'''<nowiki>[[ScribesTeam/MootBot|MootBot]]</nowiki>:''' http://kryten.incognitus.net/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-meeting.20080201_2004.html

== Members Present ==
* <nowiki>[[RichardJohnson|Richard Johnson]]</nowiki> - meeting chairperson
* <nowiki>[[ScottKitterman|Scott Kitterman]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[StefanPotyra|Stefan Potyra]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LucaFalavigna|Luca Falavigna]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MichaelBienia|Michael Bienia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RainCT|Siegried Gevatter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[superm1|Mario Limonciello]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[JordanMantha|Jordan Mantha]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PatrickDavies|Jonathan Patrick Davies]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[JoaoPinto|Jo√£o Pinto]]</nowiki>

== Agenda Items ==
=== Rename motu-uvf ===
Agenda item added by <nowiki>[[ScottKitterman|Scott Kitterman]]</nowiki>.

Seeing as the Universe Freeze has now been combined into the feature freeze, Scott provided the idea that the team name for <code>motu-uvf</code> should change to reflect this, also limiting the confusion that may take place since there will no longer be a <code>uvf</code>. With that, Scott provided 3 ideas for names:
* <code>motu-ff</code>
* <code>motu-release</code>
* <code>motu-freeze</code>
After further discussion a vote was called to order with the following question to be answered: "''Do we change the name of motu-uvf to motu-release?''". The following are the results:
* For: '''6'''
* Against: '''0'''
* Abstained: '''0'''
With this vote and its results, the <code>motu-uvf</code> team will now look at taking on the name of <code>motu-release</code> from this point forward.

=== Switch from Interdiff to .diff.gz ===
Agenda item added by <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki>.

Seeing as the process of utilizing an Interdiff for new upstream releases didn't receive a warm response and created some confusion between MOTU and future MOTU candidates, Emmet proposed that the process for creating a diff between the old package and the new upstream release, be created using .diff.gz instead. <nowiki>[[ScottKitterman|Scott Kitterman]]</nowiki> took over the topic from the beginning as Emmet was ''afk''. Scott started off by communicating the reasoning above. After about 10 minutes into the briefing, Emmet joined the meeting and took it from there.

After further discussion a vote was called to order with the following question to be answered: "''Switch from Interdiff to diff.gz for new upstream candiadtes?''". The following are the results:
* For: '''6'''
* Against: '''0'''
* Abstained: '''0'''
With this vote and its results, the preferred process, which is not a policy, will be to create and link to a .diff.gz for new upstream releases which are not yet in Debian.

=== Meeting Times Rotation ===
Agenda item created during the meeting by <nowiki>[[JordanMantha|Jordan Mantha]]</nowiki>

Jordan proposed that the meeting rotation be changed on 8 hour rotations such as 04:00 UTC, 12:00 UTC, and 20:00 UTC. After a brief discussion, a vote was called to order for this rotation with the following results:
* For: '''6'''
* Against: '''0'''
* Abstained: '''2'''
With this vote and its results, the new meeting rotation for MOTU meetings will be 04:00 UTC, 12:00 UTC, and 20:00 UTC.

=== Next Meeting Time ===
Due to the new rotation listed above, the next meeting will occur '''February 15, 2008''' at '''04:00 UTC''' in <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on Freenode.
