{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting minutes for Friday, August 24, 12:00 UTC.

This was a relatively short meeting, with the agenda items being fixed items, however a discussion about current UVF 
workflow was discussed. See below.

=== UVF Workflow and policy ===
A recent discussion was started on IRC in the #ubuntu-motu channel about upstream version freeze (UVF) requests, and native packages for derivative distros, such as UbuntuStudio, Mythbuntu, etc. Since these derivatives have several packages in the archive that contain settings, artwork, and seeds for packages that would be included on CDs, these projects were wondering whether they need to file an UVF exception request for these packages. The concensus was that for such derivatives, infrastructure/native packages should be given an immediate waver. That is, no UVF exceptions requests need to be filed.

Some decisions were also made concerning UVF exception request workflow. These are as follows:
1. The motu-uvf team should be subscribed, not assigned for UVF exception request bugs.
2. Blanket UVF exception for ubuntustudio/mythbuntu/xubuntu (if any) only packages, as mentioned above.

Finally, The UVF team also request that you please seriously consider the reasons of requesting a UVF exception for a package. Stupid requests, and/or dangerous newer versions of packages will be dealt with accordingly.

=== Next meeting time ===
The next MOTU meeting will be held on Saturday, September 8, at 00:00 UTC.

=== Next hug day ===
The next universe hug day will be held this Friday, August 31. The plan is for a list of packages with important bugs to be made available, so that people have something they can turn up, and get working on right away, without having to trawl Launchpad to find them. It would be great to see as many of you there as possible.

=== REVU days ===
Since new package freeze is this Thursday, August 30, every day should now be considered a REVU day. MOTUs, please consider spending your MOTU time on package reviewing. Those who have uploaded new packages to REVU, please request a review in #ubuntu-motu on irc.freenode.net, to ensure your package gets attention.

=== Next Q&A sessions ===
Daniel Holbach (dholbach) has offered to run the Q&A sessions. The next session will be on Friday, September 7, at 12:00 UTC. Volunteers are welcome to also run a session on Saturday, September 8, at 00:00 UTC.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
