{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Responsibility is the price of greatness.'' - Winston Churchill

=== MOTU Leaders ===
MOTU Leaders coordinate various efforts within MOTU, and update the <nowiki>[[MOTU-ReportingPage|Monthly Report]]</nowiki> indicating activity in that area.

==== MOTU School Dean ====
* '''Responsibilities:''' Coordinates <nowiki>[[MOTU-School]]</nowiki> topics and presenters. Sends announcements and maintains wiki pages.
* '''Currently:''' James Westby (james_w)

==== MOTU SWAT Director ====
* '''Responsibilities:''' Lead MOTU efforts to bring prompt and high-quality security fixes to users and consult with MOTUs on security concerns.
* '''Currently:''' William Grant (wgrant)

==== Mentoring Facilitator ====
* '''Responsibilities:''' Ensure that contributors and mentors are well matched and keep track of the <nowiki>[[MOTU-Mentoring|mentoring]]</nowiki> process.
* '''Current Members:''' Christophe Sauthier (huats)
 
==== Launchpad Liaison ====
* '''Responsibilities:''' Provides Launchpad developers with prioritized bugs/specs relevant to MOTU and MOTU with information on Launchpad changes and progress.
* '''Currently:''' William Grant (wgrant) and Morten Kjeldgaard (mok0)

==== Canonical Liaison ====
* '''Responsibilities:''' Point contact for MOTU-Canonical relations.
* '''Currently:''' Daniel Holbach (dholbach)

=== MOTU Leadership Teams ===
MOTU Leadership teams provide guidance and direction for MOTU activities.

==== Council Members ====

* '''Responsibilities:''' The MOTU Council is the central place for approving new MOTU members and helping to find consensus and has a final say in conflicts. It reports to the CommunityCouncil and the TechnicalBoard. (See <nowiki>[[MOTU-Council]]</nowiki> for more info)
* '''Current Members:''' Daniel Holbach (dholbach), Emmet Hikory (persia), Michael Bienia (geser), Richard Johnson (nixternal), Soren Hansen (soren), Jonathan Davies (jpds), Nathan Handler (nhandler)
* '''Contact:''' <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/motu-council|motu-council]]</nowiki> mailing list
* '''Launchpad Team:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~motu-council/|motu-council]]</nowiki>

==== Release Managers ====
* '''Responsibilities:''' Approval of Feature Freeze exceptions.
* '''Current Members:''' Scott Kitterman (ScottK), Stefan Potyra (sistpoty), Iulian Udrea (iulian), Nathan Handler (nhandler)
* '''Contact:''' Individual members, or use <nowiki>[[FreezeExceptionProcess]]</nowiki> for filing exceptions.
* '''Launchpad Team:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~motu-release/|motu-release]]</nowiki>

==== Stable Release Update Supervisors ====
* '''Responsibilities:''' Approval of Stable Release Updates (SRU)
* '''Current Members:''' John Dong (jdong), Cody Somerville (cody-somerville), Devid Antonio Filoni (devfil)
* '''Contact:''' Individual members, or use <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates]]</nowiki> to file SRU requests
* '''Launchpad Team:''' <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~motu-sru/|motu-sru]]</nowiki>

==== Sponsor Queue Admins ====
* '''Responsibilities:''' Ensure that the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-universe-sponsors/|ubuntu-universe-sponsors queue]]</nowiki> is being processed in a timely manner and approve new members.
* '''Current Members:''' Luke Yelavich (TheMuso), Emmet Hikory (persia)

=== Adding a new position or team ===

* Requests for the identification of a new MOTU Leader Role or Team should be discussed at a MOTU Meeting
** Send a summary of the role including responsibilities and requirements to the ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com mailing list
** Add an item to the <nowiki>[[MOTU-Meetings|meeting agenda]]</nowiki> linking to the mail
** Role applicants are encouraged to add their names to the agenda for consideration
* Approval of the role/team and the holder/members will be determined separately.
