{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

  

Universe and Multiverse contain several thousand packages. A valuable contribution to Ubuntu is fixing their bugs. Bugs tagged as `bitesize` are specially suited for new contributors.

# Try to confirm the bug.
# Get the source for it.
# Get it fixed with help of 
** PackagingGuide
** UbuntuDevelopment and
** people of <nowiki>[[MOTU-Contact]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Recipes-Debdiff|Generate a debdiff.]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[SponsorshipProcess|Get it sponsored.]]</nowiki>

=== Bug Lists ===

* http://harvest.ubuntu.com/opportunities/

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.owner=&field.component=4&field.component=3&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.status_upstream=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=&field.has_no_package.used=&search=Search|All open universe/multiverse bugs]]</nowiki>
* Bug related:
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2leltj|Universe and Multiverse bugs]]</nowiki>. There are a lot of bugs, some might even be easy to fix.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_cve.used=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY|Confirmed security bugs]]</nowiki>. Fixing a security bug in a community-supported Ubuntu package is a great way to learn about Ubuntu, packaging and bug fixing in general.
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/39w2p3|Universe and Multiverse bugs with patches attached]]</nowiki>. If you can help to review the patches, we'd probably get some good fixes in. (Check out http://daniel.holba.ch/temp/no_attention to find bugs with patches that are not in the sponsors queue yet.)
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/34njoy|Universe and Multiverse Incomplete bugs]]</nowiki>. Some of the `Incomplete` bugs have been in that state for a long time, let's review them.
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2oay6v|Universe and Multiverse bugs that need forwarding Upstream]]</nowiki>. These bugs need to get forwarded upstream.
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2s2yer|Universe and Multiverse Fix Committed bugs]]</nowiki>. Make sure that these `Fix Committed` bugs are really in the process of getting fixed.
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2ulotw|Universe and Multiverse crasher bugs]]</nowiki>. Let's forward them upstream and check for dups.
** Tagged bugs:
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2szf29|Universe and Multiverse bugs marked as packaging]]</nowiki>. These bugs are all packaging related.
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/3cbrps|Universe and Multiverse bugs marked as bitesize]]</nowiki>. These bugs are for new contributors.
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2pwln3|Universe and Multiverse bugs marked as upgrade]]</nowiki>. Bugs that request new upstream versions - please help reviewing them carefully.
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2tqg3u|Universe and Multiverse bugs marked as ftbfs]]</nowiki>. Bugs describing build failures of packages.
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/3y7ch2|Universe and Multiverse bugs marked as unmetdeps]]</nowiki>. Bugs that indicate packages not being installable due to missing dependencies.

However you contribute to Universe bug squashing, you are welcome to come and join the Universe bug squashers in <code>#ubuntu-bugs</code> and <code>#ubuntu-motu</code> on IRC. In these channels we have a bug bot called <code>ubotu</code>, that can give us more information on bug numbers.

=== Filing Bugs ===
For general information about bug fixing and helping with bugs, please read ReportingBugs and HelpingWithBugs. Before filing bugs, consider reading <nowiki>[[http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html|How to Report Bugs Effectively]]</nowiki>. Also search for the bug in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs|Launchpad]]</nowiki>: somebody might have found it before you!

=== Tagging Bugs ===

To make bugs easier to find for new contributors and to group them into helpful classes, you can help by tagging bugs on launchpad as:
* `packaging` if you think that the bug lies only in the packaging.
* `bitesize` if you think that it's suitable for a beginner.
* `upgrade` if the upgrade of a package is suggested and the request should be carefully checked.
* `ftbfs` if the bug described a problem to build the package.
* `unmetdeps` if the package is not installable due to missing dependencies.
* `needs-packaging` if it's a request for an application which isn't in the repositories.
* `patch` if there is a patch attached to the bug.

=== Fixing Bugs ===

If you DO NOT have upload permissions, check out SponsorshipProcess on how to get your changes included in Ubuntu.

If you DO have upload permissions, check the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-sponsors/+subscribedbugs|bugs that u-s is subscribed to]]</nowiki> from time to time: if the package was uploaded and built on all architectures, you can close the bug by marking it as "Fix released".

=== Contributing Upstream ===

Try to check if your report or your fix could be sent to Debian as well. Read ContributingToDebian for more information.

=== Teams ===

We already managed to build teams, whose launchpad IDs can be found in the comprehensive list: <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams]]</nowiki>

=== Unassigned Bugs ===

Some bugs, however, are still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=datecreated&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&assignee_option=none&field.assignee=&field.owner=&field.component=4&field.component=3&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.status_upstream=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=&field.has_no_package.used=&search=Search|unassigned]]</nowiki> and will have to be assigned to the right people/teams.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU-TODO]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryDesktopTeam
