{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 
Meeting started by asomething at 16:18:58 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-07-12-16.18.log.html
.
 
 
 
=== Meeting summary ===
 
* MOTU School Doodle poll results update and discussion
** ''ACTION:'' coolbhavi, merge https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/School  (asomething, 16:29:00)

** ''ACTION:'' asomething, help blog about the next motu school session  (asomething, 16:33:36)

** ''LINK:'' http://doodle.com/w9p6hh43hfwk8xmp   (asomething, 16:42:14)

** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2012-June/007267.html   (asomething, 16:42:26)

** 27th July will be the MOTU School next class, still needs an instructor  (asomething, 16:43:41)
 
* Next MOTU meeting
** ''ACTION:'' asomething, send out meeting minutes  (asomething, 16:49:42)

** ''ACTION:'' asomething, update wiki headers and send out reminders for next meeting  (asomething, 16:50:10)
 
 
 
Meeting ended at 16:51:42 UTC.
 
=== Action items ===
 
* coolbhavi, merge https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/School
* asomething, help blog about the next motu school session
* asomething, send out meeting minutes
* asomething, update wiki headers and send out reminders for next meeting
 
 
 
=== Action items, by person ===
 
* asomething
** asomething, help blog about the next motu school session
** asomething, update wiki headers and send out reminders for next meeting
* coolbhavi
** coolbhavi, merge https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/School
 
 
 
=== People present (lines said) ===
 
* asomething (29)
* coolbhavi (22)
* meetingology (7)
* tumbleweed (1)
 
 
 
=== Full Log ===
 
 
 16:18:58 <asomething> #startmeeting "MOTU Meeting"
 
 16:18:58 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Jul 12 16:18:58 2012 UTC.  The chair is asomething. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
 
 16:18:58 <meetingology> 
 
 16:18:58 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
 
 16:19:26 <asomething> Hi all! Any one around for the motu meeting?
 
 16:20:13 <asomething> looks like we have one agenda item besides our standing ones
 
 16:20:17 <asomething> MOTU School Doodle poll results update and discussion
 
 16:20:24 <coolbhavi> m there!
 
 16:21:29 <coolbhavi> asomething, one good news is we had a good response for the 1st school session on restart yesterday
 
 16:21:50 <asomething> #topic MOTU School Doodle poll results update and discussion
 
 16:22:25 * tumbleweed waves from debconf
 
 16:22:45 <asomething> coolbhavi, great, how'd the session go? good attendance?
 
 16:23:19 <coolbhavi> asomething, yes there was a reasonable turn up yesterday
 
 16:23:45 * coolbhavi searches his bookmarks for the poll link
 
 16:23:48 <asomething> are the logs up one the wiki somewhere?
 
 16:24:54 <asomething> coolbhavi, http://doodle.com/w9p6hh43hfwk8xmp
 
 16:25:32 <coolbhavi> thanks asomething  the logs are linked by nhandler today I believe on the wiki
 
 16:27:07 <asomething> one thing I've noticed is that we have https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/School
 
 16:27:16 <asomething> i wonder if these should be merged
 
 16:28:04 <coolbhavi> yes asomething I'll do that over the next week
 
 16:28:30 <asomething> great
 
 16:29:00 <asomething> #action coolbhavi, merge https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/School
 
 16:29:00 * meetingology coolbhavi, merge https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/School
 
 16:30:19 <coolbhavi> asomething, based on the timings feedback I got here is the post I posted on the mailing list: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2012-June/007267.html
 
 16:30:29 <asomething> is there anything that could go better for the next class? was there some kind of help you could have used that you don't feel you got?
 
 16:30:59 <coolbhavi> asomething, yes there is a streamlining process in my mind
 
 16:32:04 <coolbhavi> basically to sustain the school we need to have a team who co ordinate with various people and setup sessions
 
 16:32:27 <coolbhavi> fitting across most time zones
 
 16:33:03 <coolbhavi> doing a bit of blogging about the sessions just a week before the sessions
 
 16:33:36 <asomething> #action asomething, help blog about the next motu school session
 
 16:33:36 * meetingology asomething, help blog about the next motu school session
 
 16:33:37 <coolbhavi> and sending a remainder to the list 2 or 3 days before the sessions
 
 16:34:15 <coolbhavi> asomething, any views on the same welcome!
 
 16:34:31 <asomething> ya, in the past we've struggled to have trainings on a regular basis. I think you're probably hitting the same issues
 
 16:35:53 <asomething> has anyone stepped up to lead the next class?
 
 16:36:35 <coolbhavi> hmm I see a https://launchpad.net/~packaging-training-coordinators team on LP maybe we can open up a new team and merge the same as in the case of d-a-t
 
 16:37:31 <coolbhavi> asomething, I got a lukewarm response for handling sessions on the list so I took the first session
 
 16:37:56 <coolbhavi> keeping in mind the audience turnout
 
 16:41:36 <asomething> so from your email, it looks like 27th July will be the next class, right?
 
 16:42:14 <asomething> #link http://doodle.com/w9p6hh43hfwk8xmp
 
 16:42:15 <coolbhavi> yes
 
 16:42:26 <asomething> #link https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2012-June/007267.html
 
 16:43:41 <asomething> #info 27th July will be the MOTU School next class, still needs an instructor
 
 16:45:45 <asomething> so is there anything else to discuss? I don't think we have any thing new for the ARB to report back
 
 16:46:41 <coolbhavi> no I am done from my side
 
 16:47:17 <asomething> #topic Next MOTU meeting
 
 16:47:44 <asomething> so turn out was a bit low =)
 
 16:47:46 <coolbhavi> ll catchup on the list on motu school
 
 16:47:53 <coolbhavi> :)
 
 16:48:28 <asomething> if we're going to keep the every other week pace, that put's us on 26 July
 
 16:49:13 <coolbhavi> +1
 
 16:49:23 <asomething> I can't commit to chairing the next meeting, but I'll send out the minutes from this one and commit to sending the reminder mails to the list
 
 16:49:42 <asomething> #action send out meeting minutes
 
 16:49:42 * meetingology send out meeting minutes
 
 16:50:10 <asomething> #action asomething, update wiki headers and send out reminders for next meeting
 
 16:50:10 * meetingology asomething, update wiki headers and send out reminders for next meeting
 
 16:50:32 <asomething> guess that's all for today
 
 16:51:02 <coolbhavi> same here but I can chair i think next
 
 16:51:42 <asomething> #endmeeting
 
 
 
Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
