{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

MOTU Meeting Minutes for Friday, October 5th, 2007, 20:00UTC.

=== Mentoring Program ===
Cesare Tirabassi (norsetto) stated that it is intended to have a meeting to clarify the Mentoring program, what is its current state, and how it can be improved. It would be a meeting specific for that topic, though it hasn't been scheduled it. Anyone interested in the mentoring process is more than welcome to help improving it, and joining the meeting.

=== MOTU Meetings Schedule ===
Emilio Pozuelo (pochu) asked whether we still want to make the meetings every two weeks, given the low attendance and the small agenda. It was thought that it should change once the Hardy cycle starts, since there will be then more topics to raise, and more activity without any freezes.

=== Next MOTU Meeting Time ===
It was agreed to schedule the next meeting on October 19th, at 12:00 UTC, unless anyone on the mailing list propose a different time. Emilio Pozuelo (pochu) volunteered to send an announce to the mailing list.

=== Next REVU Day ===
Since we are in FeatureFreeze, and it isn't possible to get new packages into the archive, it was decided to postpone the next REVU day until the Hardy cycle starts.

=== Next Q&A Session Time ===
Since nobody volunteered to run a session, it was agreed that none would be set up, unless anybody volunteers in the mailing list. So raise your hand and run one!
