{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by dholbach at 16:03:34 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-08-09-16.03.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

Killing off sqlite 2 (src:sqlite)
* Micah Gersten brought up the topic and mentioned that it was something he wanted to do for precise, but ran out of time, he has repeatedly requested for the removal from Debian without success, so he figured we can push things forward by JFDI in Ubuntu and pushing up patches.
* He describes the work as: sometimes it's a flag, there might be a little porting work, but that he'd be fine with dropping anything that requires porting until it's done upstream (I would venture that most upstreams probably have already done this, it might not be packaged yet though).
* The packages involved are http://paste.ubuntu.com/1138024/ and around 10 python-sqlite rdeps.
* Dmitrijs Ledkovs said he'd look into setting up a tracker.(?)
* Daniel Holbach wanted to work with Micah to get something up on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/BugFixingInitiative

Review of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/BugFixingInitiative
* Dmitrijs Ledkovs asked if the boost1.50 transition was suitable target for Q, and Scott Kitterman replied that it'd be something being looked into for R.
* Micah Gersten wants to invited every MOTU (or everyone with the sufficient upload rights) to help with
   http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/transitions/ghc.html
* Also he mentioned that it'd be good for everyont to help fix Debian RC bugs so wheezy can release.
* Daniel Holbach agreed to have a look over the Bug fixing initiative again to remove stale content and update it to blog about it.

Update from Developer Advisory Team
* Daniel Holbach had little to report as he just came back from holidays, but he's happy to report that we have a bunch of new contributors in quantal already who the DAT is reaching out to.
* Also did he mention that the DAT is still looking for new contributors, so if you're interested in the social aspects of Ubuntu Development just ping him.

Notices:
* Micah also brought up a reminder that backports is a great way to get newer software into old releases without having to fiddle with PPAs, get the version you want into the dev release and run the requestbackport script from ubuntu-dev-tools (12.04+), the script will let you know what testing needs to be done.

Other business:
* Iain Lane brought up the Plus One Maintenance team who tend to come up with little projects to get done. He said that it'd be great if those small projects were shared more publicly as "this is what we're going to work on this week".
=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* dholbach (46)
* micahg (25)
* Laney (7)
* xnox (6)
* ScottK (6)
* meetingology (3)
* cjwatson (3)
* jtaylor (2)

=== Full Log ===

 16:03:34 <dholbach> #startmeeting

 16:03:34 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Aug  9 16:03:34 2012 UTC.  The chair is dholbach. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03:34 <meetingology> 

 16:03:34 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:03:39 <dholbach> welcome everybody to the MOTU meeting

 16:03:47 <dholbach> we have our agenda over here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings

 16:04:01 <dholbach> #topic Killing off sqlite 2 (src:sqlite)

 16:04:24 <dholbach> anyone here to discuss the topic? :)

 16:04:28 <micahg> o/

 16:04:33 <dholbach> awesome

 16:05:13 <jtaylor> I can probably help out to but I'm not familiar with the situation

 16:05:19 <dholbach> micahg: can you enlighten us about what's planned?

 16:05:25 <micahg> So, this is something I wanted to do for precise, but ran out of time, I've repeatedly requested for the removal from Debian without success, so I figure we can push things forward by JFDI in Ubuntu and pushing up patches

 16:05:54 <micahg> we have to fix up the remaining reverse dependencies to drop sqlite 2 support as was done for applications in main for precise

 16:06:52 <dholbach> micahg: does this involve major porting work or is it something we could make part of our bug fixing initiatives?

 16:07:46 <micahg> sometimes it's a flag, there might be a little porting work, I'd be fine with dropping anything that requires porting until it's done upstream (I would venture that most upstreams probably have already done this, it might not be packaged yet though)

 16:08:04 <jtaylor> how many packages are affected?

 16:08:19 <Laney> can we get a tracker?

 16:08:23 <micahg> http://paste.ubuntu.com/1138024/

 16:08:47 <micahg> Laney: sure, sounds like a good idea

 16:08:58 <Laney> nice

 16:09:11 <micahg> the list is much smaller than it was in precise FWIR

 16:09:25 <dholbach> the python-sqlite rdeps would likely need to go too?

 16:09:29 <dholbach> or rather be updated

 16:10:04 * xnox is testing ben tracker file locally

 16:10:13 <Laney> good old xnox

 16:10:17 <micahg> yeah, updated to use python-pysqlite2

 16:10:18 <dholbach> old?

 16:10:19 <dholbach> :-P

 16:10:28 <Laney> who still doesn't love motu enough to hang around in our channel :(

 16:10:39 <dholbach> good old public shaming

 16:10:48 <micahg> only about 10 rdepends on python-sqlite

 16:10:52 <Laney> now that /is/ old

 16:11:49 <dholbach> micahg: I'm happy to advertise the initiative as part of the bug fixing initiatives - maybe not for new contributors, but still it'd be good to get some eyeballs on it - maybe we should talk after the meeting about what we need to do for this

 16:12:19 <micahg> ok

 16:12:42 <dholbach> it doesn't look like anybody has major objections to getting this done :)

 16:13:09 * xnox rumbles something about DD and motu

 16:13:48 <dholbach> micahg: do you feel we have a good enough way forward to getting sqlite out of the archive?

 16:14:23 <micahg> dholbach: I think so

 16:14:27 <dholbach> fantastic

 16:14:37 <dholbach> moving on then

 16:14:47 <dholbach> #topic update from Developer Advisory Team

 16:14:54 <dholbach> I don't have much to report, as I was on holidays

 16:15:10 <dholbach> but I'm happy to report that we have a bunch of new contributors in quantal already who we're reaching out to

 16:15:38 <dholbach> we are still looking for new contributors to the DAT, so if you're interested in the social aspects of Ubuntu Development just ping me

 16:15:49 <dholbach> any questions about the DAT?

 16:16:33 <dholbach> ok, moving on :)

 16:16:41 <dholbach> #topic review https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/BugFixingInitiative

 16:17:15 <dholbach> it looks like it hasn't been updated in a while, so it'd be good to review it and see what we might want to add or replace on there

 16:17:36 <dholbach> micahg and I will add something about the sqlite situation - anyone else who would like to advertise some necessary work in the archive?

 16:17:52 <micahg> well, I've got something else, but not for the list

 16:18:08 * xnox boost1.50 transition quantal or R-series?

 16:18:15 <dholbach> now is a probably a good time to get new or reemerging contributors involved as quantal is likely less daunting to run on a regular basis :)

 16:18:40 <dholbach> micahg: an initiative you'd like to propose or a new/separate topic?

 16:18:58 <micahg> dholbach: initiative, but only for existing MOTUs

 16:19:13 <micahg> not to be exclusive

 16:19:27 <dholbach> which one is that?

 16:19:31 <micahg> ghc rebuilds :)

 16:20:01 <dholbach> xnox, I can't give you a proper answer on this, but I could imagine that ScottK might know more - wasn't this discussed at some stage on the ubuntu-devel@ list already?

 16:20:19 <dholbach> micahg: I'll do the minutes later on and am happy to mention it in there if that suits you

 16:20:25 <ScottK> xnox: R.

 16:20:31 <micahg> xnox: I think we have enough cleanup for quantal without starting another boost transition

 16:20:40 <xnox> ScottK: micahg: agreed.

 16:20:50 <dholbach> ok, that's settled then :)

 16:21:02 <ScottK> Pick your boost at release open and don't change without a very good reason.

 16:21:13 <micahg> dholbach: yeah, if anyone wants to help, just link to the tracker: http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/transitions/ghc.html , I think we're coordinating in -motu for it

 16:21:16 <xnox> ScottK: micahg: where/how do we add tasks for R archive opening? it would help to have boost-defaults uploaded at archive opening, same as it was done for Q

 16:21:29 <dholbach> thanks a lot micahg

 16:21:33 <ScottK> In fact, I'd be inclined to stick with 1.49 until after Wheezy releases and Debian changes.

 16:21:53 <ScottK> xnox: You have to remember to do it and talk to doko/cjwatson to coordinate.

 16:22:00 <ScottK> We should discuss it though.

 16:22:11 <micahg> there's a wiki page for archive opening tasks

 16:22:20 <xnox> ok. I'll take it to mailing list closer to R opening.

 16:22:26 <dholbach> ok - anything else we should be pointing new (or other work-seeking) contributors towards?

 16:22:36 <ScottK> Sounds good.

 16:22:38 <micahg> fix Debian RC bugs so wheezy can release :)

 16:24:11 <dholbach> alright, I guess we can move on then - I'll have a look over it tomorrow again and blog about it

 16:24:53 <dholbach> #topic Any other business?

 16:25:10 <dholbach> I'm not sure why "Update MOTU/FAQ" is still on the agenda

 16:25:30 <dholbach> I'll remove it - it seems like Bhavani already updated it

 16:25:55 <micahg> o/

 16:26:26 <dholbach> micahg: go

 16:26:29 <cjwatson> xnox: Feel free to add stuff to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewReleaseCycleProcess if it's been discussed.

 16:26:37 <cjwatson> (Or is obviously sensible.)

 16:27:30 <micahg> just a reminder that backports is a great way to get newer software into old releases without having to fiddle with PPAs, get the version you want into the dev release and run the requestbackport script from ubuntu-dev-tools (12.04+), the script will let you know what testing needs to be done

 16:28:09 <micahg> oh, also, did we get anywhere with -backports open at feature freeze yet?

 16:28:10 <dholbach> maybe a blog post about this would be good to have too?

 16:28:22 <micahg> dholbach: yeah, I've been meaning to set up a blog

 16:28:31 <dholbach> fantastic

 16:28:59 <micahg> cjwatson: can we do backports open at feature freeze yet?

 16:29:37 <cjwatson> I don't recall.  Wasn't there a work item or a bug or something?

 16:30:09 <Laney> there was some launchpad change but I always forget what it is

 16:30:22 <Laney> pretty sure ajmitch got the work item though :-)

 16:31:13 <micahg> sleeptold, I think that's a new one...

 16:31:47 <dholbach> ok, any other other business? :)

 16:32:35 <dholbach> perfect - I'll get out the minutes tomorrow

 16:32:38 <dholbach> thanks a lot everyone! :)

 16:32:41 <dholbach> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
