{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

MOTU Meeting, Friday, June 15, 2007.

=== Policy issues for ClamAV backports ===
In the absence of an advocate, discussion was brief.  It was noted that libclamav has over 20 rdepends, and that this should be discussed on the mailing list so that appropriate background for discussion could be provided.

=== Other Business ===
Emmet Hikory congratulated the ubuntu-universe-sponsors team on keeping the queue consistently in single digits in the last week.

=== Next meeting time ===
The next MOTU meeting will be on Friday, June 29, 2007 at 11:00UTC. Hope to see you there.  An annoucement will be sent the preceeding weekend to encourage agenda development.

=== Next Universe Hug Day ===
The next Ubuntu Universe Hug Day will be Saturday, June 23rd, 2007 (for any timezone: 49.5 hours of fun).  <nowiki>[[MOTU/Bugs]]</nowiki> will be used as the basis for identifying bugs in need of work.  Please update this with your favorite search.

=== Next Universe Q&A session ===
The next Universe Q&A sessions will be held Thursday, 28th June, at 0:00 and 12:00 UTC in #ubuntu-classroom.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
