{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

MOTU Meeting Minutes for 2008-11-14

=== Review MOTU Decision process ===

<nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki> led a discussion to talk about how the <nowiki>[[MOTU-Decisions|current decision process]]</nowiki> was working for MOTU, and if it suited out needs.  Some people expressed dissatisfaction with stagnation of ideas and discussions on the mailing lists.  Others expressed concern that with current low attendance at MOTU Meetings, any meeting-based procedure may leave some people unrepresented.

There was a side discussion on the impact of changes in the decision policy on attendance to MOTU Meetings, and how to ensure that discussions led to conclusions, rather than being left to age in the mailing list archives.  <nowiki>[[MortenKjeldgaard|Morten Kjeldgaard]]</nowiki> volunteered to organise discussion on the mailing list for a more streamlined procedure, where most operational decisions would be taken in MOTU Meetings, and anything that seemed unfinished or likely to benefit from significant discussion would use the current more complex decision policy.

There was also side discussion on whether the current MOTU Meeting times might be a factor in attendance, and how to change the times to better suit more people.  Given geographic distribution, and that all major timezone clusters were represented in the meeting, no better times were identified.

=== Discuss usefulness of a wnpp package for use with Ubuntu ITPs ===

<nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki> led a discussion about management of needs-packaging bugs, which are currently cluttering up the bugs-without-a-package list, are hard to search through, and are not carefully maintained, offering <nowiki>[[JordanMantha|Jordan Mantha]]</nowiki>'s suggestion that perhaps using a "wnpp" pseudopackage as is done in Debian would have some merit.

Opinions ranged from putting needs-packaging on brainstorm, going back to using a wiki page, ignoring the mess, mass-uploading all Ubuntu-local stuff to Debian, and using a wnpp launchpad project.  Many people expressed the opinion that having a pseudopackage would be bad, even if Launchpad could support it, and having an Ubuntu-local "wnpp" package would be prone to cause confusion.  Emmet was assigned to speak with the Launchpad developers and report to MOTU as to what options launchpad could support towards making an appropriate decision.
