{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu MOTU Meeting Minutes for Friday, 27 June 2008, 04:00 UTC.

=== MOTU decision making process ===

<nowiki>[[ScottKitterman|Scott Kitterman]]</nowiki> reviewed his <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2008-June/004060.html|proposal]]</nowiki> for a new decision making process.  After some discussion, it was established that nobody was opposed to this method.  <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki> mentioned that there had been questions regarding bootstrapping the process, and that a trial period might be suitable.  After slight further discussion, it was decided that the new process would be in effect for the next couple MOTU Meetings, and that it would be reviewed again later to determine if it should be a permanent process, or if further discussion is required.  Scott will update the <nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings|Meeting Agenda]]</nowiki> to provide appropriate guidance for those raising issues for discussion.

=== DIF ===

<nowiki>[[ChrisHalseRogers|Chris Halse Rogers]]</nowiki> asked for clarification of the process for merges post-DIF.  After brief discussion, it was agreed that outstanding merges were now late, and that either the Hardy or pre-Hardy interpretations of restrictions could be used as guidance for changes until/unless documentation to the contrary was prepared by the release managers.

The Next MOTU Meeting will be 11th July 2008, 12:00 UTC.
