{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== What is a .desktop file, what is it for? ===

These files allow smooth integration into the Gnome and KDE menu. See <nowiki>[[http://standards.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/latest/]]</nowiki> for more information. For examples on what a .desktop file should look like, go to <code>/usr/share/applications</code> in your system and open up any of the .desktop files there with your favorite text editor.

=== What about menu files? ===

It's also recommended that you write a menu entry along with a desktop entry. Menu entries specify where an application entry will appear in your desktop's menu. For example, all arcade games should fall under Games/Arcade in your desktop's menu. Therefore a menu entry for each arcade game should have <code>section="Games/Arcade"</code> in it's menu entry.

See <nowiki>[[http://standards.freedesktop.org/menu-spec/latest/]]</nowiki> on how to write a menu file. Check under <code>/usr/share/menu</code> in your system for examples on what a menu file should look like.

=== What about icons? ===

It's also good to add icons to go along with a .desktop file. Icons should be in xpm or png image format. See <nowiki>[[http://standards.freedesktop.org/icon-theme-spec/latest/]]</nowiki> for more information. Also, take a look under <code>/usr/share/pixmaps</code> in your system.

=== How do I submit what I have? ===

First, it would be great to inform upstream about this and get whatever it is you have included in the next upstream release. As an interim solution until the next release is out and integrated into ubuntu properly, please also link your contribution to this page. A member of the <nowiki>[[MOTUGames]]</nowiki>Team will integrate it in the next upload. Additionally, if the package is also in Debian (most probably yes, check packages.debian.org), please also file an wishlist bug in the Debian BTS for inclusion into Debian.

If you are familar with packaging and modifying packages, you may also prepare a new package and list it on <nowiki>[[MOTUToReview]]</nowiki>. A member of the <nowiki>[[MOTUGames]]</nowiki>Team will be happy to review your contribution.

--------

==== Crimson Fields (crimson) ====
* Jens Granseuer jensgr@gmx.net
* Contacted by Corey Burger March 6
* Followup needed to create file

==== Dosbox (dosbox) ====
* Filed bug - https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&atid=467232&aid=1145197&group_id=52551

==== Gcompris (gcompris) ====
* Has file
* Needs work

==== Hexxagon (hexxagon) ====
* Erik Jonsson - erik@nesqi.se
* Contacted by Corey Burger March 6
* Possibly included in the next version

==== Net Panzer (netpanzer) ====
* matzebraun@users.berlios.de 
* Contacted by Corey Burger Mar 10
* New upstream version, from developer (0.8.0) contains .desktop file

==== Tuxkart (tuxkart) ====
* Steve Baker sjbaker1@airmail.net 
* Sent email March 10
* This project was forked into Super Tux Kart

CategoryGames <nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki> 
