{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu MOTU Meeting Minutes for Friday, 13 June 2008, 20:00 UTC.

=== Selecting a logo for the Ubuntu Contributing Developers team ===

<nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki> asked for discussion and selection of an emblem, to be selected from those <nowiki>[[MOTU/Teams/Emblems|previously posted]]</nowiki> to be added to the launchpad team.  After some discussion of the relative roles of MOTU Council and MOTU generally towards such a selection, <nowiki>[[ReinhardTartler|Reinhard Tartler]]</nowiki> suggested that the decision be delegated to the MOTU Council as attendance at the meeting appeared too sparse to gather sufficient consensus.

=== New Launchpad Liaison ===

Reinhard reminded the attendees that there is a new MOTU Launchpad liaison, specifically Reinhard himself.  Assistance is requested, specifically with keeping track of MOTU related bugs, discussion of their relevance, prioritizing them MOTU-wise and writing up launchpad release reports for MOTU, as detailed in his <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2008-June/004047.html|acceptance mail]]</nowiki>

=== ffmpeg Transition underway ===

Reinhard also asked for assistance with the ffmpeg transition, which is causing a number of FTBFS packages in universe due to API changes.  Due to issues with Launchpad handling massive numbers of tasks, this transition is not being tracked as a bug.

=== MOTU SRU Meeting ===

<nowiki>[[ScottKitterman|Scott Kitterman]]</nowiki> announced that there will be a MOTU SRU meeting at 21:00 UTC on 16th June to integrated the new members and baseline where they are.  All interested parties are welcome to attend.
=== Next Meeting Time ===

The Next MOTU Meeting will be 27th June 2008, 04:00 UTC.
