{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Dear contributor,

As you may already have noticed, reviewers' time is a sparse resource and, especially this last development cycle, the activity on REVU was insufficient to get all proposed packages properly reviewed.

We really hope to improve in this regard but for this to be feasible we need to reduce the current list of packages waiting for review, discarding all those whose authors are no longer interested in them, so that reviewers can spend their time looking at the packages from those people who are really motivated to finish this process.

Because of this, we have automatically moved all those packages which don't have "jaunty" in their changelog to the "needs work" section. In order to get them back to the "needs review" status, you'll need to upload them again after updating the changelog. Please use this opportunity to do any other improvements to the package and ensuring that it is lintian clean, builds and installs correctly, has no spelling mistakes or typos, etc; the better the packages you submit, the more packages we'll be able to review in time for Jaunty.

You will find information on some common mistakes and ways how to get reviewers aware of your package on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Packages/REVU/CheckList. Further, it's very helpful if you are available on IRC in #ubuntu-motu during REVU Days, as this way reviewers have a chance to contact you directly and discuss any issues with your package.

We hope that this won't reduce your motivation and are looking forward on helping you to get your package into Ubuntu. Also note that our recommendation to new contributors is to help with other aspects of packaging (like merging, bug fixing, etc.), rather than further packaging new applications, which is usually a more complicated task.

Sincerely,

The REVU Team
