{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

MOTU Meeting, Tuesday, March 27, 2007.

=== Work out MOTU Council's charter ===
As the MOTU council is still finding its way in the community, a 
proposal was created on the wiki, located at 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Council/Charter. Stefan Potyra (sistpoty) 
requested all people present at the meeting to read it, and state what 
they thought.
* Everybody was happy with the proposal.
* It was decided to keep the statement about the MOTU council mediating any disputes amongst the MOTU, if ever they arrised.
* Due to the fact that all MOTUs, and MOTU hopefuls work well together, promoting MOTU, particularly in blogs was raised.
* Corey Burger (Burgundavia) said he would chase up the Behind Ubuntu people to organise more interviews with MOTU members.
* A suggestion was raised to put a final call for opinions on the MOTU mailing list, as there were very few MOTUs present at the meeting. THis was agreed upon. Sistpoty will email the list about the charter.

=== Other business ===
There were no other items on the agenda, but a few points were raised 
that warranted discussion.
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) asked about whether it would be worth using some sort of system to indicate who is doing what merge, for the next release cycle, particularly as more people are coming abord to help.
* All agreed that this was a valid concern. Sistpody had originally coded something for use a couple of release cycles back, but the code is badly out of date, and needs updating to work with launchpad again.
* Help will be greatfully accepted from anybody to get this tool ready for feisty+1.
* The current code base is in a bzr repository, and can be branched from http://tiber.tauware.de/~sistpoty/mergeWebTool.
* Being able to add comments to packages needing merging at merges.ubuntu.com was raised, with Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) stating that any requests/issues with Merge oMatic (MoM) should be addressed to either him, or Matthias Klose (doko).
* Since there are many tools that people use to make MOTU/packaging work easier, it was suggested that a package be put together with commonly used tools/scripts that people may find useful.
* It was decided that a motutools product would be created on Launchpad, and a bzr branch be created. TheMuso will create the product, and announce it to the mailing list.

=== Next meeting time ===
The next MOTU meeting will be on Thursday, April 12, 2007 at 20:00UTC. 
Hope to see you there.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
