{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* MC Call for 03-06-2009:
** Attendees: Daniel Holbach, Jonathan Davies, Emmet Hikory.
** Open Applications:
** أحمد المحمودي (universe contributor).
** Steve Stalcup (MOTU/core-dev).
** Agenda: No items for discussion.
* MC Meeting, 12th June:
** Please give Stephen Stalcup a warm welcome to the team, where he's continue to work on KDE packages and sponsoring.
** We're very pleased to welcome a new member to the MOTU team: Nick Ellery. Nick has been working a lot on merging changes from Debian and lowering the delta between Debian and Ubuntu.
** Stéphane Graber wants to expand his activities a bit and work some more on server packages and Edubuntu and applied for Core Dev. The MC recommends Stéphane.
* MC Call 2009-06-18:
** Attendees: Richard Johnson, Emmet Hikory, Daniel Holbach, Jonathan Davies, Michael Bienia.
** Upcoming Applications: Ahmed El-Mahmoudy (Contributing Developer)
** Agenda Items:
** General move of meeting times (proving difficult, moving discussion to email)
** Finding suitable meeting time for Ahmed El-Mahmoudy, decided on 25th June, 16:00 UTC.
* MC Meeting 2009-06-24:
** أحمد المحمودي (Ahmed El-Mahmoudy)'s great work on packages, his interaction with Debian and work on the Sabily distributions left us no other choice but to say +1.  :-)
** After an interesting discussion about Java packaging, the Server team and cheese the MC found out that they would very much like to see Thierry Carrez in ~ubuntu-core-dev. Hence our recommendation.
** Andrea Gasparini did a great work in the MOTU community, working on lots of different packages. His great love for QA and working with Debian and love for the Italian LoCo sealed the deal: +1 from all present MC members.
** Andreas Moog's great work on Desktop and other packages, his great attention to detail and work with Debian made the decision pretty easy. He's just joined the MOTU team.
