{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

MOTU Meeting Minutes for Friday, May 30th, 2008.

== Main item: no items ==

Meeting was very short, no much to say since there were no items listed in the <nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings|Agenda]]</nowiki>.

Emilio Pozuelo Monfort (pochu) wanted to discuss about policy for membership in MOTU key teams (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2008-May/003919.html|thread]]</nowiki> started in MOTU mailing list), but nobody had a clear vision of what should be done at the moment, so it was decided to take any decisions in a future MOTU meeting.

Same rule for motu-processes document taken at UDS (discussion started by Cody Somerville).

== Next MOTU Meeting ==

Next MOTU meeting will be held on Friday, June 13th, 20:00 UTC on #ubuntu-meeting

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
