{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Universe Sponsors Queue ==

=== Purpose ===

The <nowiki>[[http://sponsoring-reports.ubuntu.com/|Sponsors Queue]]</nowiki> is used by <nowiki>[[MOTU-Contributing|Contributors]]</nowiki> who have not yet been granted upload permission to the Ubuntu archives to submit changes to packages for review.
Please remember that:

* Security fixes should follow the procedure outlined in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures|Security Update Procedure]]</nowiki>.
* Freeze exceptions should follow the procedure outlined in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreezeExceptionProcess|Freeze Exception Process]]</nowiki>.
* Stable Release Updates (SRU) should follow the procedure outlined in the <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates|SRU process]]</nowiki>.
* New packages should follow the <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-NewPackages]]</nowiki> procedure.

=== Notes for Contributors ===

Before '''subscribing''' ubuntu-sponsors to a bug, please check the following:

 1 Your patch is in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Recipes/Debdiff|debdiff]]</nowiki> format (for merges and bug fixes) or a diff.gz file(for new upstream revisions).
** If it is just a patch against the source, please consider adding the "patch" tag, so that other contributors can easily find the patch and create a debdiff.

 2 The patch is targeted against the current development environment
** Unless you are processing a <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates|Stable Release Update]]</nowiki>, the patch should be against the current development environment.  Check <code>https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/packagename</code> to make sure that you are working from the latest sources.
** Check your <code>.changes</code> file to make sure that you have the right revision and distribution.

 3 All changes in the patch are intentional
** Review the patch manually.  If there are unexpected changes, consider removing them from the patch, either using <code>filterdiff</code> or manually.  If you are uncertain, seek advice from #ubuntu-motu or your <nowiki>[[MOTU-Mentoring|Mentor]]</nowiki>

 4 Your patch applies cleanly
** Test your patch by downloading and unpacking the target source, and running <code>patch -p1 < ../patchname.debdiff</code> in the package directory.  There should be no errors.

 5 The Status and Assignment are correct
** The Status should be "New" for sync requests
** The Status should be "Incomplete" for freeze exceptions
** The Status should be "Confirmed" for bugs that represent a new candidate revision (e.g. bugfix uploads, merges.) In other words, use Status "Confirmed" when you have uploaded a debdiff that requires attention from a sponsor.
** The Assignment should be "Nobody"

 6 The sponsors will use the status and assignment fields in their communications with you and other groups
** Please check status and assignment before subscribing again a bug which required some actions (either from you or somebody else)

=== Note for Sponsors ===

Once you have selected a bug, please use the following guidelines for disposition.  When selecting bugs, please limit yourself to "New", "Incomplete" and "Confirmed" bugs.

==== All bugs ====

** Unsubscribe ubuntu-sponsors
** Assign yourself
** Set the Status to "In Progress"
    
==== Sync request bugs ====

** If unset, set the importance. (default: "Wishlist")
** If not present, add the "sync" tag.

** If the sync is acceptable
** Set the Status to "Confirmed"
** Assign to "Nobody"
** Add a comment "sync request ACK'd"
** Subscribe ubuntu-archive
** Unsubscribe ubuntu-sponsors

** If the sync is not acceptable
** Assign the submitter and set the Status to "Invalid"
** Add a comment explaining why the sync is not acceptable

==== Bugs with debdiffs ====

** If unset, set the importance.  (default: "Wishlist")

** If the debdiff is good
** Upload the resulting package.  Since you're not the top person listed in the changelog, you will need to use the -k switch when running dpkg-buildpackage.
** Update the status to "Fix Committed"
** Add comment that the fix has been uploaded.

** If the debdiff is for an SRU, and looks sane, but you are unsure about uploading
** If the bug is already tagged motu-sru-verification, upload it.
** Otherwise:
*** Ask in #ubuntu-motu for a second opinion
*** In the absence of a second opinion:
*** Add the motu-sru-verification tag
*** unassign yourself, and set status to "Confirmed"

** If additional changes to the source are planned (soon)
** Add comment that you are working on additional changes
** When complete, upload as usual

** If the patch needs work
** Set the Status to "Incomplete"
** Assign the patch submitter
** Add a comment including the following:
*** That ubuntu-sponsors has been unsubscribed
*** The specific work that must be done for the patch to be acceptable
*** That the contributor should resubscribe ubuntu-sponsors when the changes are complete

==== Bugs without debdiffs ====

** If there is a patch, and no patch tag, add the patch tag
** Assign "Nobody" and Set status "Confirmed"
** (optional) Set the Importance
** Add a comment including the following:
** That ubuntu-sponsors has been unsubscribed
** (optional) any notes from reviewing the patch
** That a debdiff patch should be created prior to resubscribing ubuntu-sponsors

N.B.: normal bug triage rules still apply. Inappropriate bugs should be invalidated.  Already fixed bugs should be updated as Released with the release version, etc.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryProcess]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUUbuntuDevMerge]]</nowiki>
