{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Getting Started With MOTU ==

One of the best means of contributing to Ubuntu is by helping to package the thousands of different free software applications available. To get involved in this effort, we have the MOTU project (which stands for Masters Of The Universe). This team helps to train new packagers and get everyone up to speed maintaining software in Ubuntu.

This guide helps you get started in <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> quickly and easy. If you get stuck at any point, see <nowiki>[[MOTU-Contact]]</nowiki> for how to get help.

# Before you get started, you should read how the Ubuntu system works, this will help you get an idea how the different pieces fit together. To read about this, <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment|click here]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-UsingDevelopmentReleases]]</nowiki> explains how to safely make use of the latest development release for your own development environment.
# You should now read the <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MOTU-Contributing]]</nowiki>, and play with the tools described in <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Recipes]]</nowiki>. (Also check out the <nowiki>[[MOTU-Videos|MOTU Videos]]</nowiki>.)
# While running through the PackagingGuide, you may want to attend some of the upcoming <nowiki>[[MOTU-Events#Packaging101|Packaging 101]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[MOTU-Events#QASession|MOTU Q+A]]</nowiki> sessions to get help. You can also ask for help on `#ubuntu-motu` on `irc.freenode.net`.
# When you have got the hang of a few packages, why not try to <nowiki>[[MOTU-TODO-Bugs|fix An existing bug]]</nowiki> or review <nowiki>[[http://daniel.holba.ch/harvest|the harvest list]]</nowiki> of opportunities. Once you know the tools a bit better you could <nowiki>[[MOTU-TODO-NewSoftware|package something new]]</nowiki>?
# sign up for <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-motu-mentors|ubuntu-motu-mentors@lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
# When you have produced your new package or produced a package that fixes a bug, read about the <nowiki>[[SponsorshipProcess|Sponsorship Process]]</nowiki>.

Optional:
# If you don't have a blog yet, create one and blog about your progress as a MOTU.
# Add your weblog to http://ubuntuweblogs.org by following <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuweblogs.org/submit.html|these instructions]]</nowiki>.
# We have generated a "cheat sheet" called a Playbook that you can print out and use to remind you how the process works. <nowiki>[[attachment:playbook.pdf]]</nowiki>

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
