{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Frequently Asked Questions ==

Here is a list of questions that are frequently asked by new contributors on #ubuntu-motu and the ubuntu-motu mailing list. If you don't find an answer to your question here, please add it along with the answer when you find out.

'''This page contains MOTU specific frequently asked questions. Technical content that used to be on this page, has moved to <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-FAQ]]</nowiki>, which is the general place for FAQ regarding Packaging and Ubuntu Development.'''

=== What is MOTU and What does it do? ===

This is the team which takes care of Universe and Multiverse components in Ubuntu.

=== Starting Points ===

Be sure to check out these pages as well:
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-FAQ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/|Packaging Guide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/#knowledge-base|Knowledge Base]]</nowiki>

==== I want to help out Ubuntu MOTU and learn packaging, where do I start? ====

Take a look at <nowiki>[[MOTU-Contributing|MOTU-Contributing]]</nowiki> and the more concise overview at <nowiki>[[MOTU-GettingStarted]]</nowiki>.

==== How do I get help and pointers around in Ubuntu Development processes? ====

There are many ways to get help and pointers in ubuntu development

For pointers or a introduction into the process, Please get in touch with the DeveloperAdvisoryTeam in ubuntu.

Or if you want some human interaction in real time please catch us on ''#ubuntu-motu'' on ''irc.freenode.net''

There are a lot of sessions that go on on Ubuntu development in the UbuntuDeveloperWeek on ''#ubuntu-classroom''

Please feel free to pitch in for any of those sessions which interests you in the UbuntuDeveloperWeek series :)

==== Do I need to know a lot of programming languages to become a MOTU? ====

Much more important than having a lot of progamming experience is 
* being a good team player
* learning by reading documentation, trying things out and not being afraid to ask questions
* being highly motivated
* having a knack for trying to make things work
* having some detective skills

=== How MOTU works ===

There are different processes in ubuntu development such as <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging|Merge]]</nowiki>, StableReleaseUpdates, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToFix|Bug Fixing]]</nowiki> and so on

A good starting point would be: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/GettingStarted|MOTU/GettingStarted]]</nowiki>

==== Who resolves conflict? Who can I talk to if I experience problems in the MOTU team? ====

Talk to one of the members of the <nowiki>[[DeveloperMembershipBoard]]</nowiki>. Part of their goal is to keep the atmosphere in the team productive and calm.

----
Back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
