{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''***MOTU School has been retired in favor of <nowiki>[[Packaging-Training]]</nowiki>***''' - These pages remain just for historical record.

-----

We are inviting YOU, yes we mean you, to join #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net.

Why?

We, the MOTUs and as well the core devs of Ubuntu, think it’s time to increase the level of education. Right now, it’s quite difficult to enter the world of debian packaging and development.

WE WANT TO CHANGE THIS!

And the best way to change this, is to have some lectures. Everybody who is interested to be involved in Ubuntu MOTU work and Ubuntu development and as well in Debian packaging is invited to join us. Even MOTUs and Core Devs are learning every day new ways to improve themselves. And if we can, you can as well.

=== About “Masters of the Universe” ===

The “Masters of the Universe” are responsible for Ubuntu's “Universe" and "Multiverse” repositories. We are a group of around 100 people who are doing volunteer work for Ubuntu. We are all Ubuntu Members and stick with the CoC. We try to fix every package in Universe/Multiverse, we try to help other people to get their software into the Ubuntu Software Repositories. We try to change the world. You will find the “MOTUs” in the #ubuntu-motu channel on irc.freenode.net.

=== Upcoming Sessions ===

There are no currently scheduled sessions. Check back for updates or subscribe to the page to get notifications.

=== Held Sessions ===

* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-2005-12-10| 2005.12.10 Topic: Packaging without debhelper and-or CDBS]]</nowiki><<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Andrew Mitchell
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-PatchingSources| 2006-07-25 Topic: How do I patch sources?]]</nowiki><<BR>>'''Presenter:''' pitti
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-Merging-and-Syncing| 2006-07-28 Topic: Merging and Syncing Packages from Debian]]</nowiki><<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Daniel T. Chen (crimsun)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-BugWork| 2006-08-04 Topic: "How do I work on bugs?"]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Simon Law (sfllaw)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-PackagingBasics| 2006-08-11 Topic: "How does one create a software package for Ubuntu?"]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Jordan Mantha (LaserJock)
* Sessions during UbuntuOpenWeek: 
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-openweekedgy-Packaging101|Packaging 101 (Daniel Holbach)]]</nowiki>
** Maintaining an Ubuntu Package (Jordan Mantha) : <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-OpenWeek_MaintainPackages|Monday]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-OpenWeek_MaintainPackages2|Thursday]]</nowiki>
** Patching Packages (Martin Pitt) - <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-OpenWeek_PatchPackaging|Tuesday]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-OpenWeek_PatchPackaging2|Thursday]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-OpenWeek-Ports|Ubuntu Ports (Jeff Bailey)]]</nowiki>
** MOTU (Daniel Holbach) : <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-OpenWeek_MOTU|Wednesday]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-OpenWeek_MOTU2|Saturday]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-PackagingMistakes| 2006-12-21 Topic: "Common Packaging mistakes"]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Stefan Potyra (sistpoty)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-LibraryPackaging| 2008-01-17 Topic: "Library Packaging"]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Stefan Potyra (sistpoty) and Steve Langasek (slangasek)
* 25-03-08 Topic: FTBFS (Fails to build from source) <<BR>> '''Presenter:''' James Westby
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-PackagingWithoutCompiling| 2008-06-03 Topic: "Packaging scripts, webapps, firmware installers, and other things that don't get compiled"]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Emmet Hikory (persia)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-IntrepretingApportRetraces| 2008-06-26 Topic: "Effectively using and interpreting apport retraces"]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Emmet Hikory (persia)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-MaintainerScripts| 2008-07-28 Topic: "Understanding Maintainer Scripts"]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Cesare Tirabassi (norsetto)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-MergingBestPractices| 2008-08-14 Topic: "Merging Best Practices"]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Nathan Handler (nhandler)
* UbuntuDeveloperWeek 2
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-Package|Packaging 101]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Daniel Holbach (dholbach)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-Upstream|Upstream Bug Linkages]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Jorge Castro (jcastro)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-MOTUIntro|Introduction to MOTU]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Iulian Udrea (Iulian)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-Soyuz|Soyuz and all that Jazz]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Celso Providelo (cprov)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-UbuntuGnomeQA|Ubuntu and GNOME QA]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Pedro Villavivencio (pedro_)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-FixingBugs1|How do I fix an Ubuntu bug?]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Daniel Holbach (dholbach)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-BazaarIntro|Introduction to BZR]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' David Futcher (bobbo)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-DKMSPackage|Kernel module packaging with DKMS]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Mario Limonciello (superm1)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-LaunchpadWebService|Using the Launchpad Web Service API]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Leonard Richardson (leonardr) and Barry Warsaw (barry)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-BZRPackage|BZR for packaging]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' James Westby (james_w)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-PackageUpdates|How do I update a package properly?]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Cesare Tirabassi (norsetto)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-ServerTeam|Introduction to the Server Team]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Mathias Gug (mathiaz)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-PPAIntro|Introduction to PPAs]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Celso Providelo (cprov)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-PackagePatches|Various ways to patch a package]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Christophe Sauthier (huats) and Didier Roche (didrocks)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-AutoTests|Automated Testing for the Desktop]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Ara Pulido (ara)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-FixingBugs2|How do I fix an Ubuntu bug?]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Daniel Holbach (dholbach)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-PyKDEWebkit|A WebKit browser in PyKDE]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-MozillaTeam|Having fun with the MozillaTeam]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Alexander Sack (asac)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-Archives|How to avoid making Archive Admins unhappy]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Steve Langasek (slangasek)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-AskMdz|Ask Matt]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Matt Zimmerman (mdz)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-PyUnitTests|Unit testing Python Code, with code coverage measurement]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Lars Wirzenius (liw)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-InstallerTeam|Introduction to the Installer Team]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Evan Dandrea (evand)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-SecurityTeam|Introduction to the Security Team]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Kees Cook (kees) and Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand)
** <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-devweek0809-Kernel|Kernel Discussion]]</nowiki> <<BR>>'''Presenter:''' Ben Collins (BenC)

=== Requests ===

On <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-Requests]]</nowiki> you can make further requests for sessions, or volunteer to give one of your own.

=== Comments ===

I would like to request that sessions be re-presented in an earlier CET time. 03:00 CET is nearly impossible to attend. Thanks.

Is it possible to have RSS for sessions?

Sorry if this is the wrong place, but are there logs available? 

---

It would be great to setup an entire course/curriculum similar to the LinuxChix PostGreSQL class they are running on Moodle.  Several advantages to this approach:
* You would have one or two mentors for an entire class of folks who all start at one time
* Learners all begin at the same place, say monthly sessions that run for 4 or 6 weeks
* Learners have the info in one, organized placed
* Learners will have self-checks and pre-assigned activities
* Learners will learn as much from each other than any one mentor

The course setup and activities would take some building but definitely worth it to get an entire class, say 10 potential MOTUs all up and running at one time.  The current one-on-one mentoring is great but very time consuming for mentors and often frustrating for mentees or others in the queue.

BelindaLopez - Dinda

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
