{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting Minutes for 2008-03-14 ==
'''Start:''' 20:08 UTC <<BR>>
'''End:''' 21:25 UTC <<BR>>
'''Log:''' http://kryten.incognitus.net/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-meeting.log.20080314_2007.html <<BR>>
'''<nowiki>[[ScribesTeam/MootBot|MootBot]]</nowiki>:''' http://kryten.incognitus.net/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-meeting.20080314_2007.html

== Members Present ==
* <nowiki>[[StefanEbner|Stefan Ebner]]</nowiki> - meeting chairperson
* <nowiki>[[ScottKitterman|Scott Kitterman]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[StefanPotyra|Stefan Potyra]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ReinhardTartler|Reinhard Tartler]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DanielTChen|Daniel T Chen]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LucaFalavigna|Luca Falavigna]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MichaelBienia|Michael Bienia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[JordanMantha|Jordan Mantha]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[EmilioPozueloMonfort|Emilio Pozuelo Monfort]]</nowiki>

== Agenda Items ==
=== Should Ubuntu Membership be a general requirement for MOTUship ===
Agenda item created by <nowiki>[[JordanMantha|Jordan Mantha]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[ScottKitterman|Scott Kitterman]]</nowiki> likes the idea of MC being able to give out membership with becoming MOTU, but also before so that if someone meets the criteria for membership, but isn't ready to be MOTU yet. The generel idea is that Membership is a lower bar than MOTUship.

Some Arguments:

* 1) '''This should be a way of recognizing good work in MOTU without feeling like MOTUship needs to be granted.'''
* 2) '''It also allows the MC to see a candidate twice.'''
* 3) '''It gives them a better feel for the person before the MOTU application.''' 

After further discussion a vote was called to order with the following question to be answered: "''Should Ubuntu Membership be a general requirement for MOTUship?''". The following are the results:
* For: '''6'''
* Against: '''0'''
* Abstained: '''0'''
With this vote and its results, Ubuntu Membership is now a generel requirement for MOTUship. MC grant Membership before and up-to MOTUship.

=== Should we establish some "u-u-s days" to clear u-u-s queue as much as possible before release day ===
Agenda item created by <nowiki>[[LucaFalavigna|Luca Falavigna]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[EmilioPozueloMonfort|Emilio Pozuelo Monfort]]</nowiki> suggested: It was every Monday for REVU days, we could do the same for u-u-s now that we are not doing REVU. On the other hand, putting them on Mondays would mean it's just until Hardy is released... so a different day would be a good idea to get it continued in Intrepid. This was generally accpeted by the others. 
<nowiki>[[JordanMantha|Jordan Mantha]]</nowiki> added things we need:
* 1) date
* 2) to do list
* 3) MOTUs around to clear the queue
* 4) promotion and energy

Furthermore we thought about a name for it and several ideas came up: "MOTU Hug days", "Sponsorship Days", "Hug dholbach day", "Ubuntu love days". But in the end we agreed that the name isn't that important.

After further discussion a vote was called to order with the following question to be answered: "''Should we establish one "u-u-s day" to clear u-u-s queue as much as possible before release day?''". The following are the results:

* For: '''7'''
* Against: '''0'''
* Abstained: '''0'''
With this vote and its results, the <code>motu</code> team accepted to establish a single "u-u-day".

=== Next Meeting Time ===
Due to the new rotation, the next meeting will occur '''March 28, 2008''' at '''04:00 UTC''' in <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on Freenode.
