{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

MOTU Meeting Minutes for 2009-01-30

MOTUs:
* <nowiki>[[JonathanDavies|Jonathan Davies]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LucaFalavigna|Luca Falavigna]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[NathanHandler|Nathan Handler]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Hobbsee|Sarah Hobbs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MortenKjeldgaard|Morten Kjeldgaard]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[JamesWestby|James Westby]]</nowiki>

=== Discussion about REVU ===

<nowiki>[[MortenKjeldgaard|Morten Kjeldgaard]]</nowiki> raised a proposal to improve <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/REVUWorkflowProposal|REVU workflow]]</nowiki>. With this new approach, packages uploaded to REVU would fall into four categories depending on reviewers' actions (need-work comments or advocations). It could also be possible to inhibit new uploads to REVU at a choosen time (i.e. after FeatureFreeze), but <nowiki>[[NathanHandler|Nathan Handler]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki> put some objections about this feature.

Discussion was taken to describe the new display method for REVU packages, <nowiki>[[NathanHandler|Nathan Handler]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|Emmet Hikory]]</nowiki> argued about the real usefulness of the new interface, especially because of the notification feature already implemented in REVU (interested parties can subscribe to a given package to receive updates about a package status). After a short discussion, there was no consensus about the proposed workflow because there is not a clear idea of the benefits of it. <nowiki>[[LucaFalavigna|Luca Falavigna]]</nowiki> proposed to set up a staging REVU server to familiarize with the new display method to see how it performs and if there is room for improvements.

===== Decisions =====

* <nowiki>[[MortenKjeldgaard|Morten Kjeldgaard]]</nowiki> will code new display method
* <nowiki>[[LucaFalavigna|Luca Falavigna]]</nowiki> will look for hosting for a staging REVU server
* <nowiki>[[NathanHandler|Nathan Handler]]</nowiki> will coordinate the process and report back to MOTUs about the implementation
