{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== MOTU Meetings ===

''''''

We've been quite good at keeping up a rhythm of running MOTU meetings every two weeks. 

At <nowiki>[[MOTU-Meetings]]</nowiki> you'll find:
* the agenda of the next meeting,
* meeting logs
Find Meeting Logs, the agenda

=== Universe HUG Day ===

Every now and then we'll have a Universe HUG Day. 

==== What will we do there? ====

0. First of all we'll take care of <nowiki>[[MOTU-TODO-Bugs|bugs]]</nowiki>. We'll triage them, fix them and do whatever we can to clean up Ubuntu's Universe's bugs.
** <nowiki>[[HelpingWithBugs]]</nowiki> has more information about that.
0. We mark bugs as `bitesize` and offer Mentoring for bugs where we think they are suited for mentoring.

==== Who can help out? ====

Everybody. If you always wanted to help MOTUs and become one yourself one day, just join <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-motu|#ubuntu-motu]]</nowiki> to get started.

=== MOTU Q&A sessions ===

''''''

In MOTU Q&A sessions, we:
* try to answer all questions that new contributors have
** concerning MOTU processes, how to get involved, how to get Ubuntu Development done
** concerning packaging

Don't hesitate to share your problems and experiences there.

We meet in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> on irc.freenode.net. Usually every friday.

=== Packaging Training sessions ===

''''''

In <nowiki>[[Packaging-Training]]</nowiki> sessions, we:
* demonstrate packaging techniques, 
* showcase packaging tools
* answer questions 

Come in masses, ask questions, get involved!

We meet in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> on irc.freenode.net.

=== Packaging Jams ===

An Ubuntu Packaging Jam is an event in which packaging skills are taught to a group of people. Jams are typically delivered by Ubuntu LoCo teams, and they are an excellent means of not only providing events for a LoCo team but also a great way to get more people involved in Ubuntu development.

'''To see how to run a Packaging Jam <nowiki>[[MOTU-RunningPackagingJam|click here]]</nowiki>!'''

==== Scheduled Jams ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Country/State'''
| '''Address'''
| '''Website'''
| '''Notes'''
| '''Report'''
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

==== Old News ====

<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&msid=108939198110825717970.000446fc38319d9edd513&z=3|Map]]</nowiki> of Packaging Jams that already took place.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Country/State'''
| '''Address'''
| '''Website'''
| '''Notes'''
| '''Report'''
|-
| 2008-04-26
| Catalonia
| Sta. Teresa 3-5, 08140 Caldes de Montbui
| <nowiki>[[CatalanTeam-HolaHardy-PackagingJam|Wiki Page]]</nowiki> (ca)
| During our Hardy Release Party.
| -
|-
| Sunday 2008-02-24
| Maracay, Venezuela
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[http://effiejayx.velugmaracaibo.org.ve/?p=101|Short Blog Entry]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/fjcalderon/TallerDebianUbuntu|Pictures]]</nowiki>
|-
| Sunday 2008-02-24
| Belgium, Brussels
| FOSDEM
| http://www.fosdem.org/2008/schedule/devroom/crossdesktop
| JonathanRiddell
| <nowiki>[[http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/3299|Blog entry about FOSDEM, mentions packaging jam]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://stompbox.typepad.com/blog/2008/02/fosdem-2008.html|another report]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/~jriddell/packaging-presentation.pdf|slides]]</nowiki>
|-
| 6th Feb, 18:00-20:00 UTC
| Berlin, Germany
| Tucholskystr. 48, 10117 Berlin
| http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=74
| Contact `dholbach`
| http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=85
|-
| Sunday, Dec 16 @ 10:00am
| US/Illinois
| 425 Fawell Blvd. Glen Ellyn IL, 60137
| ChicagoTeam
| In conjunction with <nowiki>[[http://www.codlug.info/|CODLUG]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://blog.nixternal.com/2007.12.13/ubuntu-chicago-packaging-jam/|Blog Announce]]</nowiki>
|-
| Nov 3rd 2007 12:00 pm - ???
| Clarkston, MI
| Rick Harding's House
| <nowiki>[[http://mitechie.com/uploads/package_jam.pdf|Flyer]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[PackagingJam]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 2008-04-25
| Nicaragua
| <nowiki>[[http://isi.edu.ni/|Instituto de Informática y Sistemas]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/index.php5?title=Taller_Debian|LinuxTour.org]]</nowiki>
| See the website for event details
| -
|-
| 2008-04-19
| Michigan/US
| 5500 Crooks Rd Troy, MI 48098
| <nowiki>[[http://www.penuicon.org]]</nowiki>
| See the penguicon website for event details
| -
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

----
Go Back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
