{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== THIS TEAM IS NOT ACTIVE ANYMORE ==

There is currently no active MOTU Games team anymore. All of the former members now contribute directly in the Debian Games Team. Please see the following Page for more information:

http://wiki.debian.org/Games/Development

There are still many many wiki pages describing Games. Please help us to merge them in the debian wiki. If you have merged a page there please delete it from the ubuntu wiki.

If you would like to help with anything game related but it is Ubuntu specific, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Games]]</nowiki> could be a good starting place to help out.

=== old Tasks ===

* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-NoDesktopFile]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-NEW]]</nowiki> lists games currently not in ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[http://www.icculus.org/lgfaq/gamelist.php]]</nowiki> - We should check this list to see what we can ship and already ship. 
* Create a overview page about games already in ubuntu, similar to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuusers.de/wiki/Spiele_Ubuntu]]</nowiki> (German, perhaps anyone could translate that?)

=== Games ===
Games are listed with category next to them, as shown below.

* '''FPS'''      First-Person Shooter
** '''FPS: DM'''   First-Person Shooter (DeathMatch)
** '''FPS: SP'''   First-Person Shooter (SinglePlayer)
* '''RTS'''      Real-Time Strategy
* '''TBS'''      Turn-Based Strategy
* '''GC'''       Galactic Conquest (??? some type of strategy)
* '''MMO'''      Massively Multiplayer Online
* '''RPG'''      Role-Playing Game (Dragon Warrior or Final Fantasy style)
* '''TRPG'''    Tactics Role-Playing Game (Ogre Battle or FFTactics style)
* '''PUZ'''      Puzzle
* '''AXN'''      Action
* '''ADV'''      Adventure
* '''XPL'''      Exploration (Rogue, NetHack)

==== Packaged ====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGamesSection|Games section]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-ArmagetronAdvanced]]</nowiki> (AXN) ''Listed as Armagetron with the AAD homepage in the package!''
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-BattleForWesnoth]]</nowiki> (TBS)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-BeneathASteelSky]]</nowiki> (PUZ/XPL)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-FrozenBubble]]</nowiki> (PUZ)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-Globulation2]]</nowiki> (RTS)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-GLtron]]</nowiki> (AXN)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-Nexuiz]]</nowiki> (FPS: DM)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-Quake2]]</nowiki> (FPS) ''No free content''; ''Old, has known security holes!''
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-Stratagus]]</nowiki> (RTS)

==== Ready for Packaging ====
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-Glest]]</nowiki> (RTS)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-OpenQuartz]]</nowiki> (FPS: DM)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-Quake3]]</nowiki> (FPS) ''Engine''
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-SecretMaryoChronicles]]</nowiki> (AXN)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-Tremulous]]</nowiki> (RTS/FPS mix)
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-UFOAlienInvasion]]</nowiki> (TBS)

==== Pending / In Development ====
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-CrystalCore]]</nowiki> (FPS) ''Tech Preview scheduled Jul 24 2006''
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-FreeOrion]]</nowiki> (Galactic Conquest) ''Playable''
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-OpenArena]]</nowiki> (FPS: DM) ''Playable''
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-Zymotic]]</nowiki> (FPS: SP)

==== Licensing Issues ====
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-AlephOne]]</nowiki> (FPS) ''No free content''
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Games-DigitalPaintball2]]</nowiki> (FPS) ''Content license unknown''

=== Useful Links ===

* The Linux Gamers Guide started a lovely wiki: http://linux.strangegamer.com/
* Debian has recently formed a games team on alioth: http://alioth.debian.org/projects/pkg-games/

=== Notes ===
* Users like games.  It may be a considerably good idea to try setting up a real games team and moving some games into Main. -- JohnMoser
* Installing Armagetron, Quake 2, GLtron, Frozen Bubble, and Battle for Wesnoth shows a few packages not in main.  These packages have to be considered when considering games even in Universe, as if they break MOTU has to fix them.  These are mostly libsdl1.2; perhaps SDL should be considered for Main, because it's a cross-platform graphics, sound, and network library, like Microsoft DirectX but not Windows only.  Packages are as follows:
** libsdl-console
** libsdl-gfx1.2-4
** libsdl-net1.2
** libsdl-perl
** libsdl-sound1.2
** libsvga

CategoryGames <nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
