{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

MOTURuby is the MOTU team which takes care of the Ruby-related packages.

See our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/moturuby|Launchpad team page]]</nowiki> to see the members and other info.

== Use cases ==

Lucas wants to use software written in Ruby on his Ubuntu Breezy system. Too bad. Ruby has several important bugs on Breezy, because nobody cared about Ruby packages during the Breezy release process. For example :
{{{
require 'time'
t = Time::parse('2005-08-30T22:50:00-05:00').to_s
=> "Thu Sep 01 05:50:00 CEST 2005"}}}
(As you might know, there are 31 days in august, and this bug has been fixed in Debian for a long time)

So, one month after the Breezy release, Lucas has to start using Dapper packages to see some bugs fixed.

'''We don't want this to happen with Dapper !'''

== Which packages qualify ? ==
All packages which depend on ruby, or more exactly libruby1.8, libruby1.6 and libruby1.9. One can easily use <nowiki>[[MultiDistroTools]]</nowiki> to get a list.

See the <nowiki>[[http://tiber.tauware.de/~lucas/versions/ruby-packages.html|Current status of those packages in Ubuntu Dapper]]</nowiki>.

== Important packages ==

We should focus on important packages and their required libraries. Popularity contest could help here.
Results from the top of my head, feel free to add/modify
* RubyOnRails
* Alexandria
* Of course, the ruby interpreter and all tools needed to develop in Ruby (ruby, irb, rdoc, ri, rake, libraries ...)

== TODO List ==
* FTBFS packages :
** fix FTBFS as of 2006-01-21 :
** quantlib-swig (DEPWAIT on libquantlib0-dev)
** libapache2-mod-xmlrpc2 (FAILED)
** libintl-gettext-ruby (FAILED) (was 0.11-5. fixed in 0.11-5.1 ?)
** Re-run builds of everything later.
* Run piuparts tests on all packages
* Start working on AutomatedTesting for at least some ruby packages.

== Related team/work ==
* <nowiki>[[http://pkg-ruby.alioth.debian.org/|Debian's pkg-ruby team]]</nowiki> (interpreter, libruby, etc)
* <nowiki>[[http://pkg-ruby-extras.alioth.debian.org/|Debian's pkg-ruby-extra team]]</nowiki> (some team-maintained ruby packages)

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams <nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
