{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

  

There's always a lot of work to do in Ubuntu's Universe and Multiverse.

Here a quick list of suggestions, where you can help out:

=== General Tasks ===

* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntuwire.com/~lucas/merges.html|Merges/Syncs]]</nowiki>

==== Packaging New Software ====

Check out '''<nowiki>[[MOTU-TODO-NewSoftware]]</nowiki>'''.

=== Packaging related ===

==== Patch Testing and Review ====

Check out the list of Ubuntu bugs in Launchpad and:
# Make sure the bug is still relevant.
# Assign it to you.
# Transform the patch into a <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Recipes-Debdiff|debdiff]]</nowiki> if necessary.
# Make sure it builds and fixes the bug.
# Add it to the <nowiki>[[SponsorshipProcess|sponsoring queue]]</nowiki> or upload it yourself.

==== Unmet Dependencies ====

Help to fix packages that are not installable. A list can be found <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/debcheck/debcheck.py?list=relationship%2dDepends&arch=ANY|on debcheck]]</nowiki> updated 6-hourly.
* Component-specific unmetdeps lists are also available: <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/debcheck/debcheck.py?list=universe-only-relationship%2dDepends&arch=ANY|universe]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/debcheck/debcheck.py?list=multiverse-only-relationship%2dDepends&arch=ANY|multiverse]]</nowiki>
* Some of them are main packages, please sort them out. If you want to take care of them... even better. :)
* Best to use a clean `pbuilder` environment if possible. See: <nowiki>[[PbuilderHowto]]</nowiki>.
* `apt-get source <package>` and `debuild or `dpkg-buildpackage`
* Many of the packages just need a fresh rebuild.

==== Other Packaging tasks ====

** Incorporate Debian RC fixes: http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/bugs/rcbugs/
** Address FTBFS issues: http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/ftbfs
** Review outstanding lintian issues: http://lintian.ubuntuwire.org/
** Lists of packages needing updates due to depends on obsolete package names (e.g., library transitions): http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/NBS/
** Check out other QA activities: http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/
** Piuparts Logs: http://people.ubuntu.com/~liw/piuparts/ (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-December/024893.html|instructions]]</nowiki>)
** Look for potential security fixes:
** http://security-tracker.debian.net/
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/~motu-swat
* Code Needed:
** Help develop GUI tool for monitor/resolution configuration: https://launchpad.net/~displayconfig-gtk
** Help develop failsafe X mode: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/bullet-proof-x
** Port software to use Ubuntu information, rather than Debian: <nowiki>[[MOTU-PackagesToPort]]</nowiki>

=== Universe / Multiverse Bugs ===

Check out '''<nowiki>[[MOTU-TODO-Bugs]]</nowiki>'''.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryTeamTODOPage]]</nowiki>
