{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Videos are a great way to demonstrate all the good work we do. If it's an interview, a documentary video, a recorded talk or just a video of UbuntuDevelopers having fun, let's get the videos listed here.

== List of Videos ==

* Sign up for the Ubuntu Development <nowiki>[[http://www.ustream.tv/channel/ubuntu-development-with-daniel-holbach|video podcast]]</nowiki>
* http://ubuntudevelopers.blip.tv - Videos in .flv and .ogv format
** Note: The videos were made in the Ubuntu Hardy Heron version, so if you use another version it's possible it might not work. For example it doesn't give the exact same results in Intrepid Ibex (confirm).
** Packaging 101
** Note: ed-0.9.tar.bz2 can no longer be found at the gnu site mentioned in the video packaging 101. Possible to find it at http://savannah.c3sl.ufpr.br/ed/ed-0.9.tar.bz2
** Upgrading Packages
** Note: It's possible to add a graphical editor when running the dch -i command(to make things more simple for people very new to packaging). Adding to the .bashrc file in the home directory '''''export EDITOR=/usr/bin/gedit''''' will open your changelog file in gedit when using the dch -i command.
* http://youtube.com/ubuntudevelopers - Youtube UbuntuDevelopers channel.
** English
** <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VyEl3w7SFK4|MOTU Getting Started]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://youtube.com/watch?v=zKLabbXTqMc|Packaging 101 - Part 1]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://youtube.com/watch?v=SwTp1YnehoI|Packaging 101 - Part 2]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://youtube.com/watch?v=SAxFpKBG-bU|Patching Packages]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JJzM2LNOtWU|Upgrading Packages]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukC2I0hUoIw|Common MOTU Questions]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mBY7wfX2jpA|Packaging Jams and Bug Jams]]</nowiki>
** Spanish
** <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLpoi5PlFP8|MOTU Getting Started]]</nowiki>
** German
** Packaging Jam Berlin (<nowiki>[[http://videos.ubuntu.com/development/german_packaging-jam-berlin_part1.ogm|Part 1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://videos.ubuntu.com/development/german_packaging-jam-berlin_part2.ogm|Part 2]]</nowiki>)

=== Issues ===

** Packaging 101 - ed version is out of date, it's available in a tar.gz now and dh has an error about no directory existing

== Proposed Videos ==

Add videos you've worked on here. If they prove useful and are well done, they will be added to the resources above.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Who'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Synopsis'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Link'''
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

== Requested Videos ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Who'''
| '''Suggested Title'''
| '''Synopsis'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Working On It'''
|-
| JorgeCastro
| Life``Cycle of a Bug
| A "follow along" the lifecycle of a bug explaining how bugs are triaged.
| 
| 
|-
| DanielHolbach
| Using bzr-builddeb to share the love
| Using bzr and bzr-builddeb for package management
| 
| 
|-
| Dereck
| Patching Packages 2
| Fix a typo in a dialoug
| 
| 
|-
| probono
| Packaging Python apps
| Show how to package a typical Python application that consists of a few .py files
| Maybe start from scratch by using a PyGTK hello world sample. What am I supposed to do if I have just written a "helloworld-pygtk.py" that I want to package? Also cover things like eggs, python-support etc. from a practical point of view. Am I advised to use them, or can I safely ignore them?
| 
|-
| Mike.lifeguard
| Packaging Perl modules
| How to package a Perl module
| 
| 
|}

how about closed captioning on the vids already out?
== Useful Information ==

* <nowiki>[[ScreencastTeam-RecordingScreencasts]]</nowiki> has a lot of useful information on how to record videos and how to convert them into various formats.
* http://tonywhitmore.co.uk/cgi-bin/wiki.pl?UsefulNotes/RedubbingOgg

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
