{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting minutes for Saturday, September 8, 2007, 0:00 UTC.

=== MOTU SRU process ===
Mario Limonciello (superm1) wanted the procedure for MOTU stable release updates (SRUs) clarrified, particularly in relation to the role of archive admins. The following clarifications were made.
* The motu-sru team is not used.
* Archive admins don't check anything more than the version number when going to -proposed.
* Subscribe ubuntu-archive, who can do more throughout checks.
* Version numbers shouldn't have ~proposed1, but a check for conflicts with security updates needs to be made.
* Anybody can comment that a package works for them, when it is in the testing phase, i.e not only MOTUs, but anyone in the community.
* Any remarks that the package works have to be for the latest -proposed upload, and from that point, the 7 day period restarts.

Luca Falavigna (dktrkranz) also requested clarification of the sponsorship process for SRUs. The concolusion was that MOTUs aren't comfortable with helping with SRUs, due to either a lack of understanding, or confusion about the procedure. It was decided that once the document is updated to clarify the above points, encouraging MOTUs to become familiar with the SRU procedure should be a priority. Superm1 kindly offered to update the wiki.

=== Meeting attendance ===

Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) started a discussion relating to the small number of attendees at recent MOTU meetings, noting that there are a few who regularly attend, but thats about it. This has the added effect of meeting times only being set to times that the regular attendees can turn up.

It was decided that a message should be sent to the MOTU mailing list, asking for opinions from others in the community, and also encouraging those who aren't yet MOTUs to also attend, as the meeting is for anybody who is interested in the MOTU community. TheMuso offered to send the mail.

=== Next MOTU Meeting ===
The next MOTU meeting will be held on Friday September 21st, at 12:00 UTC.

=== PPA Packaging 101 session ===
A packaging 101 session for those who are interested in making use of PPAs is in the works, and will be announced shortly.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
