{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About the MOTU ===

<<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:left; font-size: 0.9em; width:50%; background:#ffc8c8; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''To get started right away on your MOTU adventure, <nowiki>[[MOTU-GettingStarted|click here]]</nowiki>!'''
|}

<<BR>><<BR>>
-

Welcome to the Masters of the Universe!

Masters of the Universe (MOTUs) are the brave souls who keep the Universe and Multiverse components of Ubuntu in shape. They are community members who spend their time adding, maintaining, and supporting as much as possible the software found in Universe.

A list of MOTUs can be found on our <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~motu|Launchpad]]</nowiki> team page.

Besides the MOTU there is also a large number of volunteers called ''contributors'' who are on their way to becoming MOTUs and have their work on Universe sponsored by MOTUs.

=== Community Information ===

* <nowiki>[[MOTU-FAQ|MOTU FAQ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/|MOTU Documentation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-NewPackages|Getting a brand new package into Universe]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Events|MOTU Events]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[MOTU-Meetings|MOTU Meetings]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Misc|MOTU pages that don't fit elsewhere]]</nowiki>

'''Current Work Mode:''' <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Merging|Merges]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[SyncRequestProcess|Syncs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToFix|Patching Bugs]]</nowiki>

'''Current Freezes:''' None

=== So you want to be a MOTU? ===

MOTU contributors are the people who are interested in contributing to Ubuntu and are learning how to package and work in the Ubuntu development community. They primarily work by using MOTUs as sponsors for their work. There are no requirements or exams to pass to become a MOTU contributor, just a willingness to learn and a commitment to the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.

* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers|What does it take to become a MOTU?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-TODO| What needs to be done?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/|Is there a guide to packaging for Ubuntu?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment|General Tips and Policies for Ubuntu Development]]</nowiki>

==== MOTU Programs for contributors ====

** <nowiki>[[DeveloperAdvisoryTeam| Developer Advisory Team]]</nowiki> - a team that is here to give you some advices to help you in the Ubuntu Development learning process.
** <nowiki>[[MOTU-School| MOTU School]]</nowiki> - specific topics taught on IRC by experienced developers.

=== MOTU Processes ===

* <nowiki>[[CategoryProcess|List of other Distro related processes]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Merging|Merging]]</nowiki> - updating packages from Debian to Ubuntu requiring changes.
* <nowiki>[[SyncRequestProcess|Syncs]]</nowiki> - updating packages from Debian to Ubuntu ''without'' any changes.
* <nowiki>[[FreezeExceptionProcess|Freeze Exceptions]]</nowiki> - requesting an exception from the <nowiki>[[RaringReleaseSchedule|Release Schedule]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates#Universe|Universe Stable Release Updates]]</nowiki> - updating packages in stable releases (i.e -updates).
* <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-UpdateProcedures|Security Update Procedures]]</nowiki> - updating packages for security fixes in stable releases (i.e. -security).

=== Get in touch ===

* Join <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-motu|our mailing list]]</nowiki>.
* Join ubuntu-motu on irc.libera.chat
* Follow the ubuntudev account on facebook/twitter/identi.ca

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki><<BR>>+
<nowiki>[[CategoryUbuntuTeams]]</nowiki>
