{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Note''': The mentoring program is in no way compulsory, new or established contributors are free to contribute to Ubuntu as they prefer.
The mentoring program is only meant to :

* help new contributors who wish personal attention when starting
* help established contributors who wish personal guidance when applying for motuship

== Mentoring Program: ==

==== Rationale: ====

The current mentoring program has been in place for about one year. During this time several short comings of this model have become evident, especially as the number of new contributors grows.
The alternative sponsoring model is also felt quite inadequate, especially for new contributors and contributors which are on their way to motuship.

What is evident today, is that:

# Some MOTU have weaknesses in certain skill areas
# Those potential contributors who are not self-starters aren't getting started
# There is an insufficient number of volunteers to act as Mentors
# There is an insufficient number of volunteers to teach MOTU School classes
# Many existing contributors have difficulty reaching a sufficient skill level to apply for MOTU

==== Suggested Model: ====

The Mentoring program will be split into two different programs:

* a Junior Mentoring Program for those who seek to become active contributors and want some guidance to do so
* a Senior mentoring Program for those who are already active contributors, but want some guidance to achieve MOTUship.

Furthermore, stronger ties with the current MOTU School program will be established.
All participants in the Mentoring program will be expected to attend MOTU School sessions, and those not in regular
attendance may no longer be eligible for Mentoring.
All contributors will be encouraged to take an active role in preparing and presenting MOTU School sessions, as well as attending actively general Q&A sessions.

=== Junior Mentoring Program: ===

===== Rationale: =====

The majority of new contributors are unsure on how to begin when starting out in Ubuntu development.  Most only need an overview of basic tools, processes, and to become familiar with available Ubuntu Teams and community members.
Experienced developers have (in most cases) a busy agenda and often can't dedicate a lot of time to new contributors, which may make those contributors lose their interest in contributing. On the other hand, experienced contributors (Ubuntu Members or Universe Contributors) may also have the time and energy needed for such a work. Also, helping new contributors will push senior ones to learn and investigate more on the fields they don't know already.

===== Suggested Model: =====

Upon request, new contributors will be assigned a mentor which is particularly devoted to help new contributors.
There won't be any requirement to be able to join the program, but we expect new contributors to be serious and committed in their endeavour.
The mentor will not necessarily be an experienced developer, but can also be an expert contributor. We will actively encourage existing contributors to participate as mentors in the Junior Mentoring Program. The mentor will guide the new contributor (mentee) to find his/her way into the community, present the different teams and guide him/her through:

* a basic overview of our processes:

** bugs <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToTriage|triaging]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/PatchSystems|patching]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.org/|Q/A]]</nowiki> (ftbfs, broken dependencies, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/NBS|NBS]]</nowiki>, transitions, etc.)
** syncs, fakesyncs and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging|merges]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Recipes/PackageUpdate|updates]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/NewPackages|new packages]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates|SRU]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreezeExceptionProcess|FFe]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports|backporting]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures|security updates]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/PackageArchive#Removals|removal requests]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SponsorshipProcess|sponsoring]]</nowiki>

* our good practices: 

** The (LP: #xxxxx) <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-May/000298.html|tag]]</nowiki>
** The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebianMaintainerField|Maintainer]]</nowiki> field
** Cooperating with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributingToDebian|Debian]]</nowiki>
** Test building of packages
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Recipes/Debdiff|Debdiffs]]</nowiki> for submissions to sponsor's queue
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/PatchSystems|Patch]]</nowiki> systems

* introducing our basic tools of the trade:

** dget, wget and tar
** debuild and dpkg-buildpackage
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PbuilderHowto|pbuilder]]</nowiki> or sbuild
** debdiff, diff and patch
** dh-make, dch, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Howtos/PackagingFromScratchHelloDebhelper|debhelper]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Howtos/CDBS|cdbs]]</nowiki>
** apt-cache and rmadison

This program will have a duration of 2-3 months '''maximum''', at the end of which the mentee should be ready to apply as an Ubuntu Universe Contributor and the mentor will be free to assist a new mentee.
Note that not being able to apply at the end of the program will in no way be considered as a prejudice for a later request. It will only be a way to enforce on one side the necessary commitment from the mentee, and on the other side that mentoring resources are utilised properly.
During the duration of the program, the mentee will be expected to attend MOTU School sessions to reinforce their technical skills.
Mentors are requested to send in regular reports of their mentees progress to mentoring-reception on a regular bases (every 4 weeks maximum).

=== Senior Mentoring Program: ===

===== Rationale: =====

Many established contributors still need help to develop a target plan for their activity as MOTU and to fine tune their technical skills, especially in areas where they are weak.
Applying as a MOTU must be an informed decision and most experienced contributors needs guidance to know if and when they are ready.

===== Suggested Model: =====

Upon request, established contributors will be assigned a mentor. This mentor will be a MOTU, who has especially volunteered to train new MOTUs. 
Mentor and mentee will work together on tuning the mentee's skills and focus on their weaknesses until the mentor believes the contributor is ready to apply for MOTUship.
The mentor will provide advice and guidance including:

* assisting in preparation of a plan to become MOTU
* recommendations and introductions to other contributors / teams
* guidance on Ubuntu processes and personalities
* providing technical support and review of mentee progress
* assisting the mentee in preparing a comprehensive wiki page, which should give a clear and consistent picture of the work done so far by the mentee, as well as his background and his plans for the future.
* helping the mentee to prepare his application email
* helping the mentee to prepare for MOTU Council questions

Also for this program a '''maximum''' duration of 2-3 months will apply. If at the end of this period the contributor is still not considered ready to apply for MOTUship he/she will have to leave the program and the mentor will be free to assist a new mentee.
Note that not being able to apply for MOTUship at the end of the program will in no way be considered as a prejudice for a later request. It will only be a way to enforce on one side the necessary commitment from the mentee, and on the other side that mentoring resources are utilised properly.
Mentors are requested to send in regular reports of their mentees progress to mentoring-reception on a regular bases (every 4 weeks maximum).
