{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by dholbach at 16:02:45 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-08-23-16.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

Killing off sqlite 2 (src:sqlite)

* http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/transitions/sqlite.html
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/BugFixingInitiative#Moving_away_from_sqlite
* Not much progress to report yet. micahg intends to put more effort into it now that we are passed feature freeze.

Update from DeveloperAdvisoryTeam.

* The team recruited 2 new members: jokerdino and vibhavp

Review https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/BugFixingInitiative

* No new initiatives this week.

Any other business?

** A brief discussion on the Developer Membership Board's expectations of MOTU applicants. Summary: work done, ability, and general trust in the applicant.

Meeting ended at 16:21:13 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* dholbach (42)
* shadeslayer (21)
* tumbleweed (9)
* meetingology (3)
* micahg (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:02:45 <dholbach> #startmeeting

 16:02:45 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Aug 23 16:02:45 2012 UTC.  The chair is dholbach. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02:45 <meetingology> 

 16:02:45 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:02:57 <dholbach> agenda page is up at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings

 16:03:08 <dholbach> micahg, around?

 16:03:29 <dholbach> or anyone else who'd like to talk about sqlite?

 16:03:50 <dholbach> #topic Killing off sqlite 2 (src:sqlite)

 16:04:14 <dholbach> Personally I haven't checked quantal-changes too closely, so I don't know how much progress we made in this regard.

 16:04:28 <tumbleweed> http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/transitions/sqlite.html

 16:04:34 <tumbleweed> not much progress, no

 16:04:48 * tumbleweed is also a little out of touch atm

 16:04:50 <dholbach> I mentioned it in the minutes of the last meeting and on the bug fixing initiatives page, but maybe we need to launch another call for help with this

 16:05:46 <dholbach> Ok, maybe somebody can send an email to the lists about this.

 16:06:00 <shadeslayer> I could try and help a bit, if someone could explain what needs doing ;)

 16:06:15 <dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/BugFixingInitiative#Moving_away_from_sqlite

 16:06:34 <dholbach> Ah, it's not too much text - I can paste it:

 16:06:35 <dholbach> We would like to get away from moving sqlite in favour of sqlite3. http://paste.ubuntu.com/1138024/ has a list of packages which need to be built with sqlite3, sometimes some porting work will be involved in making the switch. Be sure to check for new versions upstream which already moved over. Also are there around 10 packages which depend on python-sqlite and will need to be moved over as well.

 16:06:59 <shadeslayer> alright

 16:07:14 * shadeslayer can give one of the packages a try tonight

 16:07:35 <dholbach> when UDW is over I will start doing some more regular blog posts about specific bugs or specific targets - maybe this will help as well

 16:08:02 <dholbach> thanks shadeslayer

 16:08:05 <dholbach> #topic Update from DeveloperAdvisoryTeam.

 16:08:08 <shadeslayer> right, it helps if you have a set of smaller packaging bugs that people can get started with

 16:08:13 <dholbach> yes

 16:08:42 <shadeslayer> oh look, kraft, I've worked on that before, so I can start with that

 16:08:49 <dholbach> cool

 16:08:52 <dholbach> In the advisory team we just recruited 2 new members, jokerdino and vibhavp who have been doing a great job until now.

 16:09:09 <dholbach> And we're still reaching out to new contributors and get a lot of good feedback.

 16:09:18 <dholbach> Closer to the release we'll release the feedback again.

 16:09:35 <dholbach> That's all from your DAT.

 16:09:51 <dholbach> #topic Review https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/BugFixingInitiative

 16:10:13 <dholbach> shadeslayer, if you look at the wiki page - do you have any smaller packaging bugs we should put on there?

 16:10:31 <shadeslayer> nothing off the top of my head, no

 16:10:46 <dholbach> we should probably advertise this page even better - as it will likely help getting things done :)

 16:10:54 <shadeslayer> I can try and compile a list of small packaging bugs in Kubuntu

 16:10:59 <dholbach> great

 16:11:04 <dholbach> that'd be awesome

 16:11:47 <dholbach> if anybody else would have a look at the page and update it if necessary, that would be great - after UDW next week I'll have a look at it myself again

 16:12:09 * shadeslayer adds to TODO

 16:12:22 <dholbach> excellent

 16:12:41 <dholbach> #topic Any other business?

 16:13:02 <shadeslayer> well ... question ...

 16:13:09 <dholbach> sure

 16:13:18 <shadeslayer> when considerign a new developer for a MOTU position

 16:13:30 <shadeslayer> do you focus on universe work that person has done

 16:13:37 <shadeslayer> or the ability to do packaging work

 16:14:05 <shadeslayer> *considering

 16:14:27 <dholbach> I'm not on the DMB, so I personally could just say what I /would/ do. :-)

 16:14:33 <shadeslayer> sure

 16:15:15 * tumbleweed is on the DMB

 16:15:16 <micahg> dholbach: no, no progress yet on sqlite, will try to get to it after feature freeze

 16:15:21 <dholbach> but I assume that apart from a general demonstration of packaging skills and a track record of good work in Ubuntu, it will be interesting to see why MOTU upload rights would be relevant to them

 16:15:29 <dholbach> micahg, ok cool

 16:15:37 <shadeslayer> hm

 16:15:41 <tumbleweed> it's about work done and ability and trust

 16:16:07 <shadeslayer> tumbleweed: ^ your opinion?

 16:16:18 <tumbleweed> ability being less important than trust that the person won't go beyond their abilities

 16:16:31 <shadeslayer> right

 16:16:46 <tumbleweed> we do expect a certain level of skill, though

 16:17:00 <shadeslayer> *nod*

 16:17:05 <tumbleweed> motus are generalists, so they should already have a fairly wide packaging skillset

 16:17:38 <shadeslayer> yeah, I want to expand my packaging skillset, which is why I plan on contributing more to Universe

 16:17:50 * dholbach hugs shadeslayer

 16:17:59 <shadeslayer> that, and now that Kubuntu is in Universe ;)

 16:18:23 <dholbach> :-)

 16:18:33 <dholbach> ok cool - any more topics for us? :)

 16:19:03 <shadeslayer> that's it from me :D

 16:19:32 <dholbach> #topic Updating the wiki for next meeting / minutes

 16:19:45 <dholbach> Is there anyone who could update the Wiki? :)

 16:20:40 <tumbleweed> I'm fairly tied up right now, I'm afraid. But I could tomorrow

 16:20:54 <dholbach> that'd be perfect

 16:21:02 <dholbach> thanks a lot tumbleweed

 16:21:06 <dholbach> thanks a lot everyone

 16:21:10 <dholbach> that was a quick meeting :)

 16:21:13 <dholbach> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
