{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/mount-all-local-filesystems
* '''Packages affected''': gnome-mount, hal

=== Summary ===

List all the local partitions to the nautilus "Computer" place and make possible for an user to mount them.

=== Rationale ===

At the moment there is no GUI method of mounting non-removable hard disk partitions.

=== Use cases ===

* Michael has a multi-boot system with Windows and Ubuntu installed. He's using Ubuntu at the moment but needs a document stored on his Windows partition. 

=== Scope ===

The changes apply to the Ubuntu desktop. When the GnomeMount specification is implemented, so that gnome-mount is available for Xubuntu, this will automatically apply to the XFCE desktop as well.

=== Design ===

* Show mountable hard disk partitions in the computer:// place.
* If the user attempts to mount a nonremovable volume, mount it through gksudo.

=== Implementation ===

* Change hal to stop setting the volume.ignore property for the local partitions with a sensible file system.
* Make hal set volume.ignore for the fstab "auto" partitions (this cannot be done with a simple FDI rule, but requires a code patch).
* Make gnome-mount call itself through gksu when hal does not allow the current user to mount the specified volume.

=== Possible future improvements ===

Having a way for the user to ignore and mask some partitions would be nice. That would require to modify gnome-vfs and nautilus to add the corresponding options and to store those settings to gconf. Most of users probably don't need that feature though, it's not a part of the specification then.

=== Comments ===

Lots of windows talk here. Which filesystem types does this apply to? Does it work with random OS X, Mac OS 9, Linux, BSD filesystems? -- Engla

Pitti: Yes, this of course applies to any file system Linux can handle.

Hi, in Kubuntu this patch makes fstab mounted partitions inaccessable through media:/ and taking them from fstab does not help either as it does not launch a dialogue to mount them --FFIXXX

=== Tests ===

* Find or create a hard disk partition that is not mentioned in `/etc/fstab`, make sure it has a sensible file system. If you just created it, you need to reboot the computer.
* The partition should appear in the usual places for media (desktop icon, Computer place, diskmounter applet.
* If you mount the partition using one of these icons, gksu should ask you for your password and mount it to `/media/`''label''.

----
CategorySpec
