{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mouse-extra-buttons
* '''Packages affected''': xorg

=== Summary ===

On Microsoft Explorer series mice, and many logitech mice that are compatible, the follow needs to be added to xorg.conf:

<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Configured Mouse"
 Driver "mouse"
 Option "CorePointer"
 Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
 Option "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
 Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
 Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
 Option "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
EndSection
</pre>

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This would solve overall system feel and polish issues, and bugs:
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/107876
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/85202
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-mouse/+bug/26196

And silence trolls: http://www.osnews.com/read_thread.php?news_id=17739&comment_id=232855

=== Use Cases ===

* Dirge is unhappy that Ubuntu doesn't allow him to use all the buttons on his 7 year old Intelli Mouse Explorer, and choses to use a different operating system because of this problem.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

How should we detect that the mouse is a Microsoft Explorer series mouse?

----
CategorySpec
