{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Accessed via System->Preferences->Windows

The movement key modifier is part of a combination series that allows you to click anywhere inside a metacity window and perform one of three particular actions.

'''Metacity Movement Hotkey'''
 Movement Key+Left Click+Mouse Drag
* This combination allows you to click anywhere within a window's borders in order to move the window around the screen (exactly as if you were to click within its title area).

'''Metacity Resize Hotkey'''
 Movement Key+Middle Click+Mouse Drag
* This combintion allows you to click anywhere with a window's borders in order to resize the window.  This work similar to using the resize handles at the edges of the window.  It can be a bit strange, but play with it, you'll figure it out.  :-)

'''Metacity Window Menu Hotkey'''
 Movement Key+Right Click
* This combination will popup the window menu for the window at the cursor's position.  Could be useful in saving you the extra distance it would take to reach the buttons in the title area.

By changing the Movement Key setting in System->Preferences->Windows you change the Movement Key required in all these combinations.  If anyone knows how to change which click (left, middle, or right) does which action, please update this page!  I have yet to figure this out.
