{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Time and place ===

'''When:'''  TBA

'''Where:''' <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on the <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|Freenode Network]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/Mozilla-2008-06-22|Log]]</nowiki>

=== Actions ===

==== Not Assigned ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Action
| Assignee
| Status
|-
| Add how to upstream patches to the <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Bugs/TriagersHandbook]]</nowiki>, and how it fits in the general procedure.
| '''None'''
| Not Assigned
|-
| Ask UWN to republish the blog post.
| '''None'''
| Not Assigned
|}

==== Assigned ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Action
| Assignee
| Status
|-
| Properly categorize MozillaTeam wiki pages. Check that all MozillaTeam pages have CategoryMozillaTeam and all MozillaTeam bugs pages have CategoryBugSquad, work together on initial MozilaTeam wiki cleanup.
| gnomefreak, shirish
| Assigned (Done)
|-
| Create a <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/Team]]</nowiki> page that includes a) short intro, b) requirements to join (as discussed).
| Jazzva
| Assigned(Done)
|-
| Reorganize extension wiki pages. Use <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/]]</nowiki> for pointers to other sections, and add <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/Packaging]]</nowiki> (add basic requirements to get into m-e-d team here), <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/List]]</nowiki>. Add column to the table for compatible programs (use icons).
| Jazzva
| Assigned (Done)
|-
| Add thunderbird examples to XPI.TEMPLATE and document that on <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/Packaging]]</nowiki> page.
| asac
| Assigned (Rescheduled)
|-
| Create meeting schedule for next 6 month and take care of getting those meeting on fridge and sending preannouncements.
| gnomefreak, Volans
| Assigned (Done)
|-
| Write a blog post/announcement with these stats and a call to join m-e-d team. Include "medal of honor" for the m-e-d member that updated most packages.
| gnomefreak
| Assigned (Rescheduled)
|-
| Provide basic blog post layout.
| Jazzva
| Assigned (Done)
|-
| Target initial m-e-d report for end of July (or if we are good June)
| gnomefreak, Jazzva
| Assigned (Rescheduled)
|-
| Setup mozillateam-community team and add applicants that do not need branch access or haven't otherwise contributed considerably to mozillateam.
| gnomefreak
| Assigned (Done)
|-
| Document redirection procedure to mozillateam-community on mozillateam membership page
| asac
| Assigned (Rescheduled)
|}

For rescheduled tasks look <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Meetings/Minutes/2008-08-03|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Agenda and minutes ===
==== Membership policy for mozilla-extensions-dev team ====
* Topic summary: We need to set a membership policy for mozilla-extensions-development team. Do we let everyone in, with trial period to show some development, or do we need candidates to show some work before joining the team? Does the membership expire, and needs to be renewed, or we manually remove inactive members?
* Actions:
** Basic requirements to get into m-e-d team are 1 package and 3 updates. To preserve the membership a user needs to regularly contribute to the team. A rule of thumb for removing members from the team is 6 months of inactivity, but current memberships can be reviewed ~1 month before new Ubuntu release.

==== Team Tags and Status changes ====
* Topic summary: We need a set of tags to keep and others to remove or combine in other tags also i would like feedback on what wikis to update since most are old. Feedback on these wikis would be great or some ideas and i will save everything as notes for a to do list and go from there
* Actions:
** Add how to upstream patches to the <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Bugs/TriagersHandbook]]</nowiki>, and how it fits in the general procedure
* Further information:
** <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Bugs/UpstreamBugProceduresIntrepid]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Bugs/TriagersHandbook]]</nowiki>

==== MozillaTeam wiki ====
* Topic summary: We need to clean up the wikis for the MozillaTeam, for example taking a wiki that has conversations posted should be changed to a complete wiki, this will help users understand it more. All MozillaTeam's and ExtensionTeams's wikis should have CategoryMozillaTeam, CategoryBugSquad at the bottom of wiki page
* Actions:
** Properly categorize MozillaTeam wiki pages. Check that all MozillaTeam pages have CategoryMozillaTeam and all MozillaTeam bugs pages have CategoryBugSquad
** gnomefreak and shirish work together on initial MozilaTeam wiki cleanup

==== Extensions related wiki pages ====
* Topic summary: Since we have the m-e-d team, we need to see where we maintain extensions related wiki pages. Is <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/]]</nowiki> good, or is there some better option? We also need a wiki start page for m-e-d team.
* Actions:
** Jazzva to reorganize extension wiki pages. Use <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions]]</nowiki> for pointers to other sections, and add <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/Packaging]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/List]]</nowiki>. Add column to the table for compatible programs (use icons).

==== Thunderbird extensions ====
* Topic summary: There was talk and a Wiki about Mozilla team before UDS, I would like to know where we are on that or if it was declined.
* Actions:
** asac to add thunderbird examples to XPI.TEMPLATE and document that on Packaging page

==== Meetings ====
* Topic summary: We should have a meeting at least once a month or whatever we can decide on. This will help in membership approval as well as keeping everyone updated and keeping our support docs up to date. Once a month is just a suggestion.
* Actions:
** gnomefreak and Volans to create meeting schedule for next 6 month and take care of getting those meeting on fridge and sending preannouncements

==== Large scale Extensions - Next steps ====
* Topic summary: Define what the next steps are, which areas require work and who takes the lead on the particular topics
* Actions:
** No current actions, as it's not yet ready. Once it's ready pick out details from LargeScaleMaintenance page, and put them on <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/Packaging]]</nowiki> page.

==== Extension Team Marketing ====
* Topic summary: How to better communicate our extension efforts
* Actions:
** Write scripts that gather stats for: extensions updated this month, new extensions suggested this month, new extensions released this month, extensions that need to be updated (a list to the extensions that have a new upstream version), total extensions maintained by m-e-d.
** gnomefreak to write a blog post/announcement with these stats and a call to join m-e-d team. Include "medal of honor" for the m-e-d member that updated most packages. Jazzva to provide basic blog post layout.
** Ask UWN to republish the blog post.
** Target initial m-e-d report for end of July (or if we are good June)
** Someone to create a <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Extensions/Team]]</nowiki> page that includes a) short intro, b) requirements to join (as discussed)

==== Proposed members for MozillaTeam ====
* Stephen Lau (Stevel_): declined. He didn't show up at the meeting, so we couldn't acknowledge his prior contributions.

==== mozillateam-community ====
* Actions:
** Setup mozillateam-community team and add applicants that do not need branch access or haven't otherwise contributed considerably to mozillateam
** asac to document redirection procedure to mozillateam-community on mozillateam membership page

==== Other business ====
* None :)
----
CategoryMozillaTeam
