{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Debugging Tools ==

=== Apport ===

* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Bugs-Apport|Apport]]</nowiki> - Automatic problem reporting tool.
* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Bugs-Apport-Retrace|Apport-retrace]]</nowiki> - Guide to creating symbolized stack retraces.

== Bug Triage ==

* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Bugs-Procedures|Triage Procedures]]</nowiki> - Current triaging procedures. 
* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Bugs-Triage|Bug Triage]]</nowiki> - Historical triaging procedures.

== Downstream resources ==

* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Firefox-CustomBookmarks|custom bookmarks (admin-downstream)]]</nowiki> 

== Development resources ==

=== MozillaTeam Packages From Source ===

* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Build-Apt |Build using apt sources]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Build-Bzr |Build using bzr branches]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Testing your translation |Testing your translation]]</nowiki>

=== Patching ===

* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-PatchSystems|General Info]]</nowiki> - pitti's MOTU school session on patching sources
* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Patch-Add|Add Patches]]</nowiki> - how to add new patches to MozillaTeam packages
* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Patch-Develop|Develop Patches]]</nowiki> - how to develop patches for MozillaTeam packages
* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Patch-Configure.in|Special Case: Configure.in Patches]]</nowiki> - special case: what to do if you have a patch that touches configure.in

=== Extensions ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Extensions |Mozilla Extensions Team]]</nowiki>

=== Translations ===

* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-KnowledgeBase-HowtoProduceTemplatesForAutomaticLaunchpadImport|How to Produce Templates For Automatic Launchpad Import]]</nowiki>

== Team Policies ==

* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Downstream|Downstream]]</nowiki> - Guidelines for interacting with downstreams. 
* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Upstream|Upstream]]</nowiki> - Guidelines for interacting with upstreams.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>, [CategoryDebugging]
