{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
Meeting a about issues relating to the Mozilla Team, setting out plans for wiki, bug triaging, recruitment.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log(s):''' <nowiki>[[http://www.yawnster.com/ubuntu/logs/%23ubuntumozillateam-1-11-2007.log|2007-01-11]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' FreddyMartinez <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' AlexLatchford <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====
* FreddyMartinez(Admiral_Chicago)
* AlexLatchford(Yawner)
* JohnVivirito(gnomefreak)

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:

* Team approval, what needs to be done?
** Adding the IRC Channel to the logging list.
* Wiki procedures. Who does what?
* Report rejection procedures.
** When and why should we reject reports.
** Time period to automatically reject reports.
* More members needed
* Mozilla Team Artwork.
** Do we need/want a logo?
** Team icon is currently the Firefox icon? We are the Mozilla Team, thus..
* Produce high priority bug fix list.
* Any other business?

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''17:16 UTC''', by Meeting Chair, '''FreddyMartinez'''''
* '''''LAST MEETING DATE''' - First meeting of the Mozilla Team'''''
* ''Meeting closed at '''18:18 UTC'''''

=== Agenda ===
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

===== Team approval, what needs to be done? =====

* Apparently nothing needs to be done on this front, we have a mailing list set-up for members, a launchpad team and it is only LoCo Teams that need to be approved by the CC and TB. [Log: 17:21]
<pre>
<gnomefreak> from what i gathered from last CC meeting yesterday only loco teams need to be approved since we are not loco teams we have nothing to worry about.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"

===== Adding the IRC Channel to the logging list. =====

* Need to speak to fabio about getting a logbot added to the channel, John to organise. [Log: 17:29]
<pre>
<gnomefreak> i will get up with him after the meeting
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''In progress'''"

===== Wiki procedures. Who does what? =====

* The layout of Wiki needs to reflect two distinct user groups, the triagers and the reporters. Freddy to make progress with.
* We need to split up Firefox and Thunderbird and then have sub-categories for their related plugins/extensions etc. [Log: 17:36]
<pre>
<Admiral_Chicago> i don't think me neither. We need to look at this like a new user / person interested in the team.
...
<Admiral_Chicago> no, that's what I mean. We should do a BugResources type page that will help users triage bugs.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''In progress'''"

==== Report rejection procedures ====

===== When and why should we reject reports. =====

* When a bug is a 1 time crash report, non-reproducible bugs, distinguish between Firefox and Website code (a bug is not looking pretty), not enough info(see below). [Log: 17:56]
<pre>
<gnomefreak> if the user attaches crash report leave it open
<Admiral_Chicago> non-reproduceable, in-responsive, non-enough information (after asking for more of course) but that goes into the previous one
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"

===== Time period to automatically reject reports =====

* 30-60 Days to respond after a request for further information, else the report is rejected, however reporter can reopen if needs be. [Log: 17:48]
<pre>
<Admiral_Chicago> as a general if your team member asks for more information and it doesn't get meet, please close the bug report. I've seen that not happen on a few, probably because we weren't formed yet.
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"

===== More members needed =====

* Freddy to shout in UWN28 about the team. [Log: 17:51]
* Email kubuntu-users, ubuntu-users, devl, bugmail to see if we can draw in some new recruits. [Log: 17:53]
<pre>
<Admiral_Chicago> I can put it in UWN 28.
...
<gnomefreak> send emails to Ml about the team with some links
<Admiral_Chicago> team members are lists: kubuntu users, ubuntu users, devl, bugmail for more members
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"

==== Mozilla Team Artwork ====

===== Do we need/want a logo? =====

* Idea to merge Firefox Logo with Ubuntu Logo.. [Log: 18:02]
* Idea to mess with the Dinosaur a little, make it a little more Ubuntuised. (Both need a spec if sent to Artwork Team). [Log: 18:02]
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"

===== Team icon is currently the Firefox icon =====

* Ask David about ability to change LP.net Icon. Maybe use a small version of new logo?. [Log: 18:06]
<pre>
<Admiral_Chicago> we can do many types of logos and play with them
 we can take a poll or something
 for LP, I think David is the one that can change that
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''In progress'''"

===== Produce high priority bug fix list. =====

* Alex to create a high priority fix page, once wiki restructure is complete. [Log: 18:15]
<pre>
<Admiral_Chicago> Yawner: do you want to do the page? Not now, after we restructure the wiki
...
<Yawner> yes ok
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved'''"

== Conclusion ==

The meeting was successful, we managed to establish a number of key points towards the formation of a successful team. From this meeting we are looking to expand the team by trying to recruit on Ubuntu user mailing lists, we also set in motion a set of concentrate procedures for bug rejection. We also set out the specifications for the future artwork and for the future of the wiki also.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>
