{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

''Note:'' currently just a stub where initial content is aggregated in an unsorted fashion

To see how to submit your results go to <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-QA-Submit]]</nowiki>.

=== Firefox Testplan ===
# test to start firefox with your standard profile
# test to let firefox create new profile (e.g. move away .mozilla)
# test save an image, does dialog appear et al?
# test bookmarks: can you drag/drop bookmarks (in manager and in UI - e.g. from toolbar to menu et vv)?
# Do live bookmarks work? are headlines properly displayed, can you subscribe to a new feed?
# test password manager:
** are passwords properly pre-filled when previously remembered?
** are credentials of new sites properly remembered as well (test in same browser session and with browser restarted)
# test plugins (see above)
# test javascript: use AJAX sites like: new mail.yahoo.com, gmail.com, maps.google.com et al.
# test https site (https://www.launchpad.net)
# test certificate support:
** ensure that https://www.cacert.org/index.php?id=1 gives you a certificate warning (e.g. by removing previously imported certificate from trust db in Preferences -> Advanced -> Encryption -> View Certificates)
** open http://www.cacert.org/certs/root.crt ... are you asked to import? if so do import and select "Trust this CA to identify websites"
** after that visiting https://www.cacert.org/index.php?id=1 should not give you a warning anymore
 1. test gnome support:
** Use Image as Background
** Change Preferred Application (Mail-- in Gnome, set in System/Preferences/Preferred Applications)

=== Plugin QA ===

Note: Plugin QA is not mandatory to succeed. Testing the most important plugins is highly appreciated though. In case you run into issues you can add a comment when submitting your testresults.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Plugin Name'''
| '''Plugin package'''
| '''Plugin manufacturer site'''
| '''Example sites where to test the plugin'''
|-
| Adobe Reader 7.0
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/mozilla-acroread|mozilla-acroread]]</nowiki>
| http://www.adobe.com/products/reader/
|-
| Helix DNA Plugin
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/mozilla-helix-player|mozilla-helix-player]]</nowiki>
| http://player.helixcommunity.org/
|-
| Java(TM) Plug-in 1.5.0_11-b03
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/sun-java5-plugin|sun-java5-plugin]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| Java(TM) Plug-in Blackdown-1.4.2-02
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/j2re1.4-mozilla-plugin|j2re1.4-mozilla-plugin]]</nowiki>
| http://www.blackdown.org/java-linux.html
|-
| Kaffeine Starter Plugin
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/kaffeine-mozilla|kaffeine-mozilla]]</nowiki>
| http://kaffeine.sourceforge.net
|-
| MozPlugger
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/mozplugger|mozplugger]]</nowiki>
| http://mozplugger.mozdev.org/
|-
| Shockwave Flash (8.0 - Gnash 0.7.2, the GNU Flash Player)
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/mozilla-plugin-gnash|mozilla-plugin-gnash]]</nowiki>
| http://www.gnu.org/software/gnash/
|-
| Shockwave Flash 9.0 r31 (Macromedia)
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/flashplugin-nonfree|flashplugin-nonfree]]</nowiki>
| http://macromedia.mplug.org/
|-
| Shockwave Flash (GPLFlash)
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/libflash-mozplugin|libflash-mozplugin]]</nowiki>
| http://gplflash.sf.net/
|-
| Shockwave Flash (Swfdec)
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/swf-player|swf-player]]</nowiki>
| http://www.schleef.org/swfdec/
|-
| Totem 2.18.0 plugin
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/totem-mozilla|totem-mozilla]]</nowiki>
| http://www.gnome.org/projects/totem/
| http://www.apple.com/itunes
|-
| VLC Multimedia Plugin
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/mozilla-plugin-vlc|mozilla-plugin-vlc]]</nowiki>'''
| http://www.videolan.org/
|-
| gxine starter plugin
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/gxineplugin|gxineplugin]]</nowiki>
| http://xinehq.de/
|-
| mplayerplug-in 3.31
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/mozilla-mplayer|mozilla-mplayer]]</nowiki>
| http://mplayerplug-in.sourceforge.net/
|}

=== Comment Regarding Testcases from Litmus? ===
Mozilla's own QA team keeps testcases for manual testing in a testing tool called <nowiki>[[http://litmus.mozilla.org|litmus]]</nowiki>. Litmus gathers these testing results for review, and is used to run some large scale testing events (ie Test Days). Quite a number of their test cases would likely be useful to the Ubuntu Mozilla Team as well. - StephanieDaugherty

=== Thunderbird Testplan ===

# startup with fresh profile -> setup pop and imap account
# start with existing profile -> see nothing is gone
# move messages from folder to folder in same account
# move messages from folder to folder across accounts
# send a message
# install enigmail and send an encrypted / signed message
# check that you can unencrypt it
# check that you can verify it
# go through all preferneces tab and check that nothing is visually broken
# check that a random langpack still works and that no dialog is visually broken
# check that blogs work
# add more if you have more ideas ;)

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>
