{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page is useful for our bug triagers, below is a list of common responses for triaging Mozilla based bugs.  Please be aware that these are merely templates and should be treated as such, try to flesh out the template and try to avoid being blunt with your response as this can be taken unintentionally as being rude.

For a list of more generic responses please visit <nowiki>[[Bugs/Responses]]</nowiki>

== Open Bug Reports ==

=== If the bug has no back trace ===

<pre>
Thank you for the bug report. Could you please try to obtain a backtrace by following the instructions on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Bugs or attach the crash report located in /var/crash. If you dont see a crash report in /var/crash, you can enable apport by running "gksudo gedit /etc/default/apport" without the " and edit the 2nd line from [enabled=0] to read [enable=1] without the []. You need to restart Ubuntu before this takes affect. Now reproduce your crash and file bug using apport dialog.
This will greatly aid us in tracking down your problem.}}}

=== If debug symbols are not installed ===

{{{
Thank you for the bug report. Could you please install the firefox-dbg package and try to obtain a backtrace (or crash report) by following the instructions on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Bugs This will greatly aid us in tracking down your problem.

Which flash package and version do you have installed?
Which Java package and version do you have installed?
Which video player and version do you have installed?
Which firefox extensions and themes do you have installed?}}}

{{{
Thank you for the bug report. Could you please install firefox-dbg (these are the firefox debugging symbols) and try to obtain a backtrace (or crash report) by following the instructions on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Bugs
This will greatly aid us in tracking down your problem.

It is of particular interest that you run apport-retrace -d against your crash report before uploading.

Which flash package do you have installed?
Which Java package do you have installed?
Which video player and version do you have installed?
Which firefox extensions do you have installed?}}}

{{{
It is of particular interest that you run apport-retrace against your crash report.

Do you have an ati video card?

Ahhh. You must have a ATI card. My IBM T43 had the same problem. Add this to your /etc/bin/firefox:
Code:
export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1
and/or by adding to your /etc/env.d/10MozillaFirefox:
Code:
LIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1
on the first line. Its a problem with xorg when you turned on the composite module.}}}

=== Obtain a backtrace from an apport crash report (using gdb) ===

{{{
You might want to retrace yourself the coredump file with gdb. In that case you have to do the following:

Install the debugging symbols for firefox as:

apt-get install firefox-dbg

Optionally you might want to install the following  packages as:

apt-get install libgtk2.0-0-dbg libnss3-0d-dbg libnspr4-0d-dbg libpango1.0-0-dbg libc6-dbg

Copy and paste in a xterm the following sequence of commands:

TMPDIR=$(mktemp -d) 
apport-unpack /var/crash/_usr_lib_firefox_firefox-bin.1000.crash $TMPDIR
gdb -nx /usr/lib/firefox/firefox-bin -core $TMPDIR/CoreDump -ex 'backtrace full' -ex 'thread apply all backtrace full' -ex 'quit' 2>&1 | tee gdb.log
rm -fr $TMPDIR

That command will run gdb against the coredump file included in the crash report that was generated when firefox crashed. 

Upload the resulting gdb.log to launchpad.

One good thing to do is looking at the gdb output and search for missing dbg libraries or other warnings, install them and run again gdb. 

Thank you in advance
</pre>

=== Getting more information ===

<pre>
Thanks for taking the time to report this bug. Unfortunately, we are not able to fix and find the bug because your description of the bug didn't have enough information in it.  You may find it helpful to read "How to report bugs effectively", http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html. We'd be grateful if you would then provide a more complete description of the problem.

Debugging procedures for certain types of problems can be found at
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Bugs}}}

=== Pinging Old (but Open) Bug Reports ===

{{{
Is this still an issue for you?  We are trying to sort out the older Mozilla issues and would like to know if this still happens. If this still happens please report a new bug using Help > Report a problem from Firefox menu and file it against firefox-3.0
</pre>

=== Run retrace ===

<pre>
Thank you for the crash report.

I am assigning this bug to myself in order to obtain a symbolized stacktrace of the crash report(s). When I am finished with it I will attach the stacktrace to this bug report.
</pre> 

=== Crash repeatability ===

<pre>
Thank you for the crash report. Can you repeat the crash?  Does the crash generate a crash report?  If so would you please attach it to this bug report, so we can process this bug further.
</pre>

== Closing Old Bug Reports ==

=== Crashes ===

<pre>
Thank you for your bug report, but please understand that crashes are not bugs. Many crashes can be attributed to flaky plugins, extension conflicts, or other behavior. I am closing this bug for that reason, please feel free to reopen it if you feel the crash is reproducible. Use one or more of the following criteria: on other releases of Ubuntu, Newer versions of this program, crashes on every load and with up-to-date plugins.
</pre>

=== Lack of Information ===

<pre>
Thank you for the bug report however this report lacks information we need to investigate it further. For this reason, we are now going to close the bug - please feel free to reopen when you have more information at hand.

Further information can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Bugs}}}

=== Cannot Reproduce ===

{{{
Thank you for the bug report. However I am unable to reproduce this issue. We are now going to close this report - please feel free to reopen when you have more information at hand.
</pre>

=== Unresponsive Bug Reports ===

<pre>
Thank you for the bug report. It has not been updated after a request for more information in the last 30 days, for this reason we are closing the report. Feel free to reopen it in the future if you have more information and if this is still an issue.
</pre>

== Miscellaneous ==

=== Feature request ===

<pre>
Thank you for your feature idea. Anyway, new features of this kind should be implemented by the firefox developers. In order to get features into firefox you need to lobby upstream. Infos on the proper procedure for this can be found on http://forums.mozillazine.org/; read the sticky note about lobbying for features in "Firefox Features" forum.
</pre>

<pre>
Thanks for your report. Your idea might get more attention and have the possibility of being implemented if you submit a specification for it. First check whether the idea is already registered <https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+specs>, and if so, contact the 
specification's drafter about your ideas. Otherwise, you can start writing a spec yourself. <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeatureSpecifications>
</pre>

=== Support Request ===

<pre>
Thanks for your comments. This does not appear to be a bug report and we are closing it. We appreciate the difficulties you are facing, but it would make more sense to raise your question in the support tracker. <https://answers.launchpad.net/questions>
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad]]</nowiki>
