{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Configuration ===
'''Ensure proper APT configuration'''
<code>/etc/apt/sources.list:</code>
<pre>
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty main
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-updates main

deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty universe
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-updates universe
</pre>

=== Get Package Source ===
'''Get and extract package sources:'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ apt-get source <packagename>
</pre>

'''Examples:'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ apt-get source firefox
user@nowhere$ apt-get source thunderbird
</pre>

=== Build Dependencies ===

'''Install essential packages:'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ apt-get install build-essential fakeroot
</pre>

'''Install all build dependencies:'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ apt-get build-dep <packagename>
</pre>

'''Examples:'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ apt-get build-dep firefox
user@nowhere$ apt-get build-dep thunderbird
</pre>

=== Building Package ===

For a complete complete documentation see dpkg-buildpackage(1). Below common examples.

If you just want to produce your own .deb files, you probably want to run the first example. '''Note:''' all examples below will fail at the end with a gpg error. You can safely ignore this unless you want to distribute your packages. In case you want to sign anyway, you can overwrite the GPG key used by providing your own key-id to the as -k YOUR-KEY-ID.

'''Build all binaries:'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ cd firefox-2.0.0.0/

user@nowhere$ dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -b
user@nowhere$ dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -b -kYOUR-KEY-ID
</pre>

'''Build only architecture dependent binaries (e.g. build *_i386.deb but not *_all.deb):'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ cd firefox-2.0.0.0/
user@nowhere$ dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -B
</pre>

'''Build all binary packages + sources:'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ cd firefox-2.0.0.0/
user@nowhere$ dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot
</pre>

'''Force inclusion of orig.tar.gz file in produced .changes:'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ cd firefox-2.0.0.0/
user@nowhere$ dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -sa
</pre>

'''Force exclusion of orig.tar.gz file in produced .changes:'''
<pre>
user@nowhere$ cd firefox-2.0.0.0/
user@nowhere$ dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -sa
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>
