{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Next Meeting ===

'''When:''' TBA

'''Where:''' <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on the <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|Freenode Network]]</nowiki>

==== Attending? ====

Please place your name in the list below.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> Name
| IRC nickname
| Comments
|}

=== Agenda ===

Please take responsibility for an item if you are adding it, thus we can turn to you when the item crops up. :)

Items we will be discussing:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> Item
| Presenter
| Notes
| Decision
|}

Please feel free to add more items to the agenda for the next meeting. We will discuss them in turn when it arrives.
 
'''NOTE''' The decision field is to be filled in during meeting so the minutes can be written at a later date.)

=== Member candidates for consideration ===

Please prepare your wikipage well before the meeting, so we can read it beforehand. Come well prepared, otherwise the meetings will take too much time.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Name'''
| '''IRC nick'''
| '''Wiki Page'''
| '''Launchpad Profile'''
| '''Date added'''
|}

=== Minutes ===

Minutes of all the previous meetings are uploaded at the <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-Mozilla]]</nowiki> page.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>
