{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Eclipse Debug configuration ==
<pre>
Select Run->Open Debug Dialog… from the Eclipse menu
Right-click on C/C++ Local Application and select New
Project: firefox (or select your project name)
C/C++ Application: (select browse and choose mozilla/../obj-i686-pc-linux-gnu/dist/bin/firefox-bin)
</pre>

=== Specific configuration ===

 1. In the Arguments tab, change the working directory to mozilla/../obj-i686-pc-linux-gnu/dist/bin/

 1. In the Environment tab, create two variables,
<pre>
 Name:  LD_LIBRARY_PATH
 Value: .:./plugins:.

 Name:  LIBRARY_PATH
 Value: .:./components:.
</pre>
 1.#3 In the Debugger tab, remove the checkbox on "Stop on startup at:"

 1. Click Apply and hit Debug to start debugging Firefox

== Troubleshooting & Known Issues ==

'''MUST-READ'''

If you get a GDB timeout error when debugging, open the debug configuration (Run->Open Debug Dialog...->firefox) and remove any entry in the Sources tab. (I had this problem after adding my mozilla folder to a svn repository). GDB tries to "cache" every mozilla subfolder (without exclusion). The complete fix is available from the <nowiki>[[http://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Eclipse#Debugging:Mozilla|Documentation]]</nowiki>. '''ALSO''', this workaround increases the the debug launch speed to the point that you won't have to wait to start debugging.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>
