{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The MozillaTeam has certain requirements that bug summary/description have to fulfill before qualifying for status '''confirmed'''. The templates below outline the bug description format required for further processing.

=== Template: Feature Bugs ===

<pre>
Summary: <a comprehensible line describing the bug>

Steps to reproduce:
  1. step 1
  2. step 2
  3.

Expected Result:
 <what do you expect to happen after following the steps above>

Actual Result:
 <what happens instead>

References:
 1. launchpad URL to file 1 / <one line about the attachment 1>
 2. ...

</pre>

==== Summary ====
A comprehensible line describing the bug. '''Avoid''' using general words here (like "misbehaves"); those might catch false-duplicate comments which make bug processing cumbersome.

==== Steps to reproduce ====

We need simple, precise instructions here. If an extension needs to be installed, this should be included as one step.

==== Expected Result ====

Describe the expected result as simple and precise as possible.

==== Actual Result ====

Describe the actual result as simple and precise as possible.

==== References ====

The References section must contain all attachments used in the "Steps to reproduce", "Expected Result" or "Actual Result" paragraphs.

=== Template: Crash Bugs ===
<pre>
Summary: <REPEAT the Bug Summary here>

Backtrace: <launchpad URL to best backtrace available>

Steps to reproduce crash (optional):
  1. step 1
  2. step 2
  3.

References:
 1. launchpad URL to file 1 / <one line about the attachment 1>
 2. ...

</pre>

==== Summary ====
* The summary must not contain general wordings like "firefox crashes without a reason"
* The summary must read "<APPLICATION> crash in @topmost_function_in_backtrace", e.g. "firefox crash in @nsDocLoader::ReadAll"

==== Backtrace ====

Instructions on how to get a Backtrace are: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Bugs#head-c576e78d92cb3c959c271158b6ace98be835de83

==== Steps to reproduce ====

We need simple, precise instructions here. If an extension needs to be installed, this should be included as one step.

==== References ====

The References section must contain all attachments used in the "Steps to reproduce crash" paragraph. 
