{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Time and place ===

'''When:'''  Sunday, 3rd August, 18:00 UTC

'''Where:''' <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on the <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|Freenode Network]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-Mozilla-2008-08-03|Log]]</nowiki>

=== Actions ===

==== Not Assigned ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Action
| Assignee
| Status
|}

==== Assigned ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Action
| Assignee
| Status
|-
| Add thunderbird examples to XPI.TEMPLATE and document that on MozillaTeam/Extensions/Packaging page.
| asac, Jazzva
| Assigned (Done)
|-
| Write a blog post/announcement with these stats and a call to join m-e-d team. Include "medal of honor" for the m-e-d member that updated most packages. Some scripting required. Target initial m-e-d report for end of August
| gnomefreak, fta, Jazzva
| Assigned (Done)
|-
| Document redirection procedure to mozillateam-community on mozillateam membership page
| asac, Jazzva
| Assigned (Not started)
|}

=== Agenda and minutes ===

==== Status updates from the tasks set at last meeting ====
* Topic summary: re-assign any task if the assigned person is too busy
* Actions:
** Check with asac if he is going to add Thunderbird support to XPI.TEMPLATE, and describe the mozillateam to mozillateam-community redirection process.
** Reschedule initial m-e-d report for the end of August.

==== Bug work ====
* Topic summary: There is way too many bugs on our packages: propose one day a week everyone works on bugs
* Actions:
** Check with asac for the results of the coordinated work with the Bug Squad. If we have too much bugs after that, setup a Mozilla bug day

==== Is libflashsupport really needed? ====
* Topic summary: libflashsupport only causes crashes and should be removed from repos
* Actions:
** We still need libflashsupport in hardy. For intrepid, user ogra started the removal process.

==== Other business ====
* None :)
----
CategoryMozillaTeam
