{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Intro ===
nss needs to be updated to keep upstream security support; nss has a strict ABI policy and maintain symbol version scripts which makes it possible for us to do a full new upstream version update in hardy/intrepid/jaunty.

However, this requires to test some special testing as we will have higher versions in ${release}-security than in ${release+1}; e.g. users that upgrade from $release to $release+1 will not get a package update. This should not be a problem, but requires some special testing on top of the normal testing.

=== Resources ===

The ppa that contains the new nss packages is : https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mozilla-security/+archive/nss3.12.3

=== special test cases ===

 1. install '''intrepid''' release without security updates and upgrade the nspr/nss packages to the '''new hardy''' version; verify that rdepends still work; for firefox its important to test various aspects of nss: https, certificate display and the various things in preferences -> advanced -> security.

 1. install '''jaunty''' release without security updates and upgrade the nspr/nss packages to the '''new intrepid''' version; verify that rdepends still work; for firefox its important to test various aspects of nss: https, certificate display and the various things in preferences -> advanced -> security.

=== TODOs ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Task
| assignee
| status
|-
| pre test hardy
| 
| TODO
|-
| pre test intrepid
| 
| TODO
|-
| pre test jaunty
| 
| TODO
|-
| special test on intrepid (above)
| 
| TODO
|-
| special test on jaunty (above)
| 
| TODO
|-
| roll out to -proposed
| asac
| TODO
|-
| verify -proposed
| asac
| TODO
|-
| pocket copy to -security -updates -proposed
| jdstrand
| TODO
|-
| verify post release bugs
| asac
| TODO
|}
