{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Install distcc ==
<pre>
# sudo apt-get install distccmon-gnome
</pre>

== Local configuration ==
Modify the /etc/default/distcc file and replace or add the existing values with these :
<pre>
STARTDISTCC=”true”
ALLOWEDNETS=”192.168.0.0/16″
LISTENER=”0.0.0.0″
</pre>
This ALLOWEDNETS property would allow connection from any clients on the 192.168 subnet. You must configure this attribute on any host you want to use.

== Hosts configuration ==
<pre>
}}}

== Restart the service ==
{{{
</pre>

== Configure Mozilla projects ==
Edit your mozilla/.mozconfig file described <nowiki>[[Mozilla/Develop|here]]</nowiki> and add the following line:
<pre>
mk_add_options MOZ_MAKE_FLAGS="CC='distcc gcc' CXX='distcc g++' -j4"
</pre>
The -j4 parameter represents the number of parallel compilation will be used. Set this number to the total number of processing units (CPUs and cores) + 2. Ex: If your localhost is a dual core CPU and you have a Pentium 4 client on your network, this parameter should be 3+2 = -j5.

== Launch the build ==

You can launch a build with the 'make -f client.mk build' and monitor the distributed build by using the distccmon-gnome application.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>
