{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log(s):''' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/11/02/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' asac <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' asac <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====
* asac
* fta
* gnomefreak

===== Others Present =====
* Volans
* stgraber

== Membership Requests ==
The following people have requested and interview for membership:
* NCommander

===== Applicants Not Accepted =====
* NCommander - skill-wise ok, but should work more on mozilla software; also didnt show up during meeting.

== Actions ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Action
| Assignee
| Status
|-
| review packages and how we can make mozclient confs in the packaging itself
| fta
| assigned
|-
| decide on the fate of songbird in ubuntu
| fta,asac,jcastro
| assigned
|-
| forward every patch that isnt really ubuntu specific
| asac
| started
|-
| talk with bdmurray about forwarding ubuntu bugs again
| asac
| assigned
|-
| get qt/gtk split done on experimental 1.9.1 branches
| asac,fta
| started
|-
| investigate how firefox can be built in gtk/qt independent fashion
| asac,fta
| assigned
|-
| ensure that all extensions have upstream branch
| Jazzva
| assigned
|-
| finish master example script to actually import things to .upstream branches
| Volans,asac
| assigned
|-
| refactor get-new-imports to contain a better abstraction for comparing xpi tree versions
| Volans,asac
| assigned
|-
| review how we can make mozilla-devscripts more useful for debian; decide on a plan
| 
| not assigned
|}

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Jaunty Discussions/Planning (gnomefreak)
* Universe Software Security Support (asac)
* Actions from last meeting 
* Review of Auto Extension Scripts
* Other Business

=== Agenda ===
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

===== Jaunty Discussions/Planning =====

* firefox 3.1 and xulrunner 1.9.1 to be uploaded early in cycle; keep unofficial/milestone branding until it becomes the default (aka when final); fta noted that this is already the case
** consider providing -backports if someone is willing to work on that and maintain it in future
* Qt support for xulrunner/firefox; investigate how to best package that; firefox should be widget toolkit independent; this might require upstream patches
* Other packages in pipeline: fennec flock instantbird seamonkey-2.0 songbird thunderbird-3.0 xul-explorer
** flock has trademark issues and upstream seems to enforce them -> consider unbranding -> ask jcastro to mediate.
** enigmail probably needs to be fixed to support thunderbird 3.0 (both, packaging as well as code wise)
* songbird needs trademark clarification: EULA?; needs decision how and if to package this

===== Actions from last meeting =====
* Check for extensions and plugins that are not supported in Firefox 3, and remove them, if there are no updates for them -> ''Done''
* Remove Firefox 2 from the archive -> ''Done''
* Add abrowser to all firefox rdepends and upload -> ''Done''
* Try to get Firefox 3.1 alpha2 into the archive -> ''carried forward to jaunty''
* Write down how to get items into the monthly reports and send that to mailing list/wiki -> ''carried forward''
* File a bug about removing libflashssupport from ia32-libs -> ''Done''
* Get mozilla-devscripts in Debian -> ''needs decision/action, carried forward''
* Write scripts for automatic upgrade of extensions -> ''partly done; needs integration/polishing/production deployment''

 
