{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Welcome ===

Welcome to the home of the Ubuntu Mozilla Team, we are the guys and gals that deal with most of the requests based on Mozilla <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Packages|software]]</nowiki>.  We are dedicated to triaging, fixing, testing, and providing support for all the applications throughout the suite.  Please see our <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Roadmap|road map]]</nowiki> for tasks we are working on. It is a vast operation as these applications are highly visible within Ubuntu, however it's a challenge that we all relish.

=== Communication ===

On IRC, on the Freenode server '''irc.freenode.net''' at #ubuntu-mozillateam.

=== Getting Involved ===

==== Bug Reporting ====

The <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Bugs|bug reporting]]</nowiki> page contains useful information on how you can report bugs in a way that will helps the team to process them more efficiently.

==== Bug Triage ====

If you want to join the Mozilla Team or just want to help out, triaging bugs is a fairly easy task that always needs to be done. Information on bug triaging can be found on <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Bugs-Procedures|triage procedures]]</nowiki>.

==== Bug Fixing ====

The next step is fixing the properly triaged issue reports, more information can be found on our <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Develop|development]]</nowiki> page.

==== Quality Assurance ====

We document our QA procedures in <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-QA]]</nowiki>

===== Preview Testing =====

The last step is testing our new build before pushing them in the Ubuntu repositories.  We have a set of <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-PreviewArchives|preview archives]]</nowiki> for testing recent fixes.

===== Trunk Testing =====

We don't provide prebuilt binary packages for the main firefox development line (aka trunk).

To test trunk (e.g. firefox 3.0 alpha) you can build the latest bzr sources.  See <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-BuildTrunk]]</nowiki>  for instructions.

==== Wiki Maintenance ====

At the present moment the wiki is growing quickly, we need a few more people to help get it into shape, please see our <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Wiki|wiki standards]]</nowiki> page for more information.

=== Mozilla extensions ===
We used to try to include a lot of extensions in the Ubuntu archive; that's no longer the case.  There are some key ones, like Ubufox, Unity-*, etc.

I've deleted most of the pages regarding extentions from 2008, but a few looked like they could still be useful under <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Extensions-List]]</nowiki>

=== Subpages ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:90%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''This Team wiki page contains the following sub-pages:'''
|-
| 
|}

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad]]</nowiki>
