{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Note: Packages in preview archives might be outdated. So don't rely on them being up to date.

Please report any bugs found in the archives listed below at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/PreviewArchives/Bugs|Preview Archive Bugs]]</nowiki>

=== Dapper Preview Archive ===

'''Topic:''' The dapper archive is currently used for security builds previews only

Add to your <code>/etc/apt/sources.list</code>:
<pre>
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/mozillateam/ubuntu dapper main universe
</pre>

=== Feisty Preview Archive ===

'''Topic:''' The feisty archive is currently used for security builds previews only

Add to your <code>/etc/apt/sources.list</code>:
<pre>
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/mozillateam/ubuntu feisty main universe
</pre>

=== Gutsy Preview Archive ===

'''Topic:''' security preview for stable apps + SRU previews for firefox-3.0 and xulrunner-1.9

Add to your <code>/etc/apt/sources.list</code>
<pre>
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/mozillateam/ubuntu gutsy main universe
</pre>

In Gutsy, just install the firefox-3.0 package to get the latest testing release of Gran Paradiso.

=== Hardy Preview Archive ===

'''Topic:''' selected previews from .head branch

Add to your <code>/etc/apt/sources.list</code>
<pre>
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/mozillateam/ubuntu hardy main universe
</pre>

In Hardy, just install the firefox-3.0 package to get the latest testing release of Gran Paradiso. Those interested only in xulrunner 1.9 can install xulrunner-1.9 and xulrunner-1.9-dev package to get the latest sdk.

=== Daily Builds ===

Fabien Tassin (fta/Ubulette on irc.freenode.net) maintains a frequently updated PPA on behalf of the mozillateam that comes close to daily builds too. If you want to ride the bleeding edge, use one of the following apt lines, but remember that using the latest also bears the usual risks of trunk builds. After all the packages are branded "Minefield".
<pre>
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/fta/ubuntu hardy main universe
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/fta/ubuntu intrepid main universe
</pre>

=== Gnash 0.8.0 Feisty ===

You can get Gnash version 0.8.0 for AMD64 and I386, without having to upgrade other packages from

<nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~asac/gnash-feisty/|Gnash-0.8.0]]</nowiki>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>
