{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Feel free to add more items below with a short rational

=== graceful ffox/xulrunner upgrades ===
* upgrading firefox always has caused a lots of bugs if users don't restart firefox correctly. even worse, in some situations firefox-bin processes wouldn't exit after an upgrade through normal UI means (e.g. only kill helped). We should discuss if there is a way to provide more graceful upgrades. 

=== extensions ===

* See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Firefox3Extensions/LargeScaleMaintenance|LargeScaleMaintenance]]</nowiki>

=== prism ===

* fix prism 0.9 for missing @mozilla.org/desktop-environment
* xul-like build system:
   1. check that --with-lubxul-sdk also work with ../xulrunner/dist/bin
   2. review and post the patch upstream
* Sort out the license issue within prism-webapps for each webapp (favicon vs desktop/menu icon)
   1. is it possible to use freedesktop.org's XDG to specify URLs for icons, and then cache the result in the user profile. panel and nautilus may have to be modified

=== songbird ===

* See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/94494|bug 94494]]</nowiki>
* Notes: trunk/extras is not in svn (forbidden access) but shipped in upstream binaries.. hints: extras/{usb_mass_storage,windowsmedia,ipod,mtp,ipod2,qaurlchanger,itunes_importer,quicktime}
* system taglib vs in-source taglib
   1. we have 1.4 (ubuntu/hardy has 1.4-8ubuntu1, debian/sid has 1.4-8.1)
   2. watch file points to 1.5 (http://developer.kde.org/~wheeler/files/src/)
   3. upstream SVN still reports 1.5 but is far ahead: http://websvn.kde.org/trunk/kdesupport/taglib/
   4. songbird is based on SVN but is even more ahead, and it also reports 1.5: http://publicsvn.songbirdnest.com/browser/trunk/dependencies/vendor/taglib (add support for m4a/mp4/itunes, fixes for flac, mpc, id3...) - compared to upstream SVN, a diffstat shows 49 files changed, 2356 insertions(+), 467 deletions(-)
   5. <nowiki>[[http://apachelog.blogspot.com/2008/05/project-neon-explained.html|Project Neon / Amarok]]</nowiki> also packages SVN taglib
* LICENCE files: http://publicsvn.songbirdnest.com/browser/trunk/installer/common and http://publicsvn.songbirdnest.com/browser/trunk/installer/linux/TRADEMARK.txt
    <pre>
The Songbird binary contains trademarks of POTI, Inc.
including, but not limited to, the name Songbird, logos, and page layout files
(skins). POTI, Inc. does not express or imply any
permission to use or distribute these trademarks.
    }}}

=== flock ===

* Ubuntu package: https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~mozillateam/flock/flock.head
   It is ibis/trunk/2.*, not grouse/1.2.*, as we ultimately want a gecko 1.9(.1?) app (grouse is based on 1.8.1)
* debs for Hardy and Intrepid are currently available in https://launchpad.net/~fta/+archive
* not ready to be built with --with-libxul-sdk=$(XUL_DEV)  [wanted for Intrepid]
   Changes in toolkit, uriloader, chrome, docshell, rdf and xpcom make it difficult to xulify.
   Some patches should be sent to Mozilla for review (and we may integrate into our xulrunner-1.9 package those that receive good reviews and cause no regression in our xul apps) but we assume a bit of refactoring is needed to achieve this "xulification".
* branding: are we allowed to package ibis with the "Flock" branding?
   what is the "Sulfur" branding? is it what Minefield is to Firefox ?
* the package seems to be fully covered by the GPL (is it v2+ ?).
* - other-licenses/branding/Flock/LICENSE:
   {{{
You are not granted rights or licenses to the trademarks of the
Mozilla Foundation or any party, including without limitation the
Firefox name or logo.}}} followed by the full MPL. Obviously, it needs to be updated for Flock.

   - other-licenses/branding/Sulfur/LICENSE:
   {{{
You are not granted rights or licenses to the trademarks of the
Flock Inc. or any party, including without limitation the
Flock name or logo.

For more information, see: http://flock.com
</pre>
   Is there a problem with those for Ubuntu?
* could we drop EULA like we did for Firefox 3?

=== automated xulrunner/firefox tests ===

* How can we run the testsuites maintained upstream?
* What infrastructure do we need?
* how to run them automatically

=== bug processing for mozilla apps ===

* How to better forward bugs upstream
* How to better make use of upstream crash DB to deal with our crashers; is there a way we can contribute our crashes upstream?

=== Ubufox ===

* run apturl in none-UI-thread (should be possible since gecko 1.9)
* improve plugin finder service UI for example similar to the "Get Extensions" tab in the Tools -> Addons dialog; maybe even hook it into the addons -> Tools dialog as well.
* revisit the changes made to default parameters. See also <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/280/|idea 280]]</nowiki>
* easier way to remove installed plugins
* OR easy way to get alternative plugins for flash .. https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/222404

=== lang packs ===

* Should we split mozilla lang packs away from gnome ones ? See <nowiki>[[http://liorkaplan.wordpress.com/2008/04/27/why-does-ubuntu-puts-firefox-transalation-in-gnomes-language-pack/|this]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://liorkaplan.wordpress.com/2008/04/29/why-does-ubuntu-puts-firefox-transalation-in-gnome’s-language-pack-2/|this]]</nowiki>
* Should we group all the mozilla lang packs into a single package ?
* Could we provide lang-packs for alpha/beta products along with stable products ? (like tb2 and tb3-a1)

=== mozilla-devscripts ===

* Do we need to refactor the code ? yes: DONE
* Support for multiple VCS in mozclient. cvs and hg/Mercurial are already supported.
   We need at least git (for midbrowser) and maybe svn (prism): svn DONE (for Prism and Flock)

=== builders ===

* Daily/hourly builds of the .head branches would be nice to have. Provided we can obtain the hardware, we could build and store debs allowing easier regression checking.
* Alternative could be to use the PPA infra and a remote storage but our branches are big (40m~1h per package) so it could be considered unfair.

=== Alpha releases ===

* Should we push early alpha releases to Intrepid (probably in universe)?
   1. thunderbird 3: alpha 1 expected soon
   2. seamonkey 2: alpha 1 expected soon
   3. firefox 3.1 / xulrunner 1.9.1
   4. firefox 4 / xulrunner 2.0 (probably not)
   5. flock 2
* We want --with-libxul-sdk, should it be a blocker for us (tb3, sm2)?
   1. thunderbird: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.mozilla.org/Thunderbird:Road_Map_To_XULRunner|Road_Map_To_XULRunner]]</nowiki>
   2. songbird: worth a try. need either a build system, or access to xul sources (like prism)
   3. flock: seems close, but upstream patched xul in-source..

=== build ===

* --enable-system-sqlite (needs sqlite >= 3.5): DONE
* gcc 4.2 -> 4.3 (default in intrepid): DONE
* return to system libjpeg
* drop band-aid patch from system cairo 1.6: DONE
* thunderbird-2 profile name: ~/.mozilla-thunderbird vs ~/.thunderbird like upstream

<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>
