{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

''If you wish to describe any of my contributions to the Ubuntu Community, please feel free to do so below. Thanks.''
=== General Testimonials ===

=== Ubuntu Beginners Team Membership ===

==== Thank you all ====
Today I became an Ubuntu Beginners Team member. I would like to thank everyone involved, and especially <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[hajour]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> and of course the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Structure#Council|Council]]</nowiki>. <<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[MrChrisDruif]]</nowiki> 9 Mar. 2011

==== hajour ====
I have worked with Chris Druif for the past 2 months on the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~speechcontrolteam| SpeechControl Team]]</nowiki>. He has been doing some terrific work on the blueprints and with programming on SpeechControl Team. Also he has supported me very well with translating and explain things. Since I have health issues I needed more help. I have seen him also in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-beginners|#ubuntu-beginners]]</nowiki> channel and in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-beginners-team|#ubuntu-beginners-team]]</nowiki> where he helped with great patience and friendly support. I can support the quality of his work, and believe Chris Druif is here to stay. <<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[hajour]]</nowiki> 9 Feb. 2011

==== phillw ====
I also echo <nowiki>[[hajour]]</nowiki> He's also got a great sense of humour and patience, I have no hesitation in recommending this fine young man to UBT. He will be a great asset to UBT and is wanting to help others all the time. <<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> 9 Feb. 2011

==== RedSingularity ====
And I echo <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> which, by programming standards, automatically echos the <nowiki>[[hajour]]</nowiki> module as well.  Chris is always on IRC helping out and giving guidance to all those in need of it.  He is also very friendly to everyone and just plain old fun to talk with in general.  I give him the "Good lad" stamp of approval.  Ask him, he will tell you.  Kidding aside, I think he would be an excellent asset to the progression of the team!  <<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[RedSingularity]]</nowiki> 11 Feb. 2011

==== UndiFineD ====
Chris is my first Apprentice, He was hanging round the UBT for some time, but never really expressed the desire to become a padawan. Yet he showed great interest, when I asked him to become one. Now, one month later he seems ready in my eyes to become a full member. He is involved in several commonly shared project teams with me, like <nowiki>[[SpeechControl]]</nowiki>. He has the desire to become a capable developer and can manage many things alone, but he is not afraid to ask for help when needed. In time Chris Druif will be a fully capable Ubuntu member, and thus I fully support him in becoming a Ubuntu Beginners Team member. <<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki> 12 Feb. 2011

==== JackyAlcine ====
Chris, what can I say? You're a really sociable, easy-to-talk-to and willing to work kind of guy. Those kind of people tend to always find a +1 spot with me, and heh :D you got it. Having you around makes things a little less stressful, as you know with SpeechControl, we're working on stuff that can help the common good. Your concern with what you can do to assist others and ensure that you and others can cooperate, learn and grow on each other is *so* the Ubuntu way, and that instantaneously is a thumbs-up. I don't see why you can't be a member of UBT, or Ubuntu, you have what it takes.<<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[jackyalcine|Jacky Alcine]]</nowiki> 15 Feb. 2011

==== NRWlion ====
Chris and I have known each other since my switch from the big W to Lubuntu. I had just installed my system and therefore - due to my lack of Linux knowledge - many problems.
When I was in the #Lubuntu channel, Chris was the first to welcome me and took the time it needed for my many questions.
I can only confirm that Chris is very helpful to "newbies" and takes care of problems of all kinds.
In my opinion, Chris is a big help for the UBT!<<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[nrwlion|NRWlion]]</nowiki> 06 Mar. 2011

=== Ubuntu Membership ===

==== Daniel0108 ====
I have worked with Chris Druif on the SpeechControl Team and on the SII. He has done great work on some blueprints and wiki pages and I really enjoy chatting with him because he's wanting to help others all the time. I can just recommend him for Ubuntu Membership!<<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[Daniel0108]]</nowiki> 11 Apr. 2011

==== forestpiskie ====
I've recently returned to the Ubuntu Beginners Team and Chris Duif was there. I'd seen him name in various Ubuntu places - but had no idea who he was. Now that I know him - I can see that he is one of those people willing to go the extra mile. I can't do more than add a whole-hearted recommendation for him gaining the recognition of Ubuntu Membership.<<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[forestpiskie]]</nowiki> 3rd Jan. 2012

==== PhillW ====
As per my comments for the UBT area above, only add to that his knowledge and helpfulness has gone from strength to strength. I have no hesitation in recommending him for full Ubuntu membership and ask that you look favourably on his application.<<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> 7th Jan. 2012

==== bkerensa ====
I've been aware of Chris Druif's contributions in the Community for awhile most specifically his contributions to the Ubuntu News Team. I feel strongly that he is a good candidate for membership and I look forward to his future contributions.<<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[bkerensa]]</nowiki> 27th Mar. 2012

==== JoseeAntonioR ====
Chris has been very enthusiastic when working in the Beginners Team. He is always there, to help people in which they need, and try until the person gets a solution. In my opinion, Ubuntu Membership is what he deserves. <<BR>> -- <nowiki>[[JoseeAntonioR]]</nowiki> 27th Mar. 2012

==== akgraner ====
I have found it to be a pleasure to collaborate with Chris in regards to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.  He continues to help contribute content, write summaries, as well as edit and review as his schedule allows.  He is helpful and always willing to share his knowledge as well as learn from others.  He has displayed a balanced approach to his contributions and is always upfront about what his is able to accomplish. He would make a great addition to any team and I recommend him for Ubuntu membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:akgraner]]</nowiki> 
==== cprofitt ====
I have known Chris for a long time and I have seen his dedication to contributing to the Ubuntu community. He is open, honest and hardworking. I feel his contribution while working with the beginners team, accessibility team and UWN have been sustained and significant. I feel he is an excellent candidate for Ubuntu Membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cprofitt]]</nowiki> 
=== IRC OP's ===

==== IRC Ops ====

<nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> I was 'allocated' with the day to running of #lubuntu and #lubuntu-offtopic more than a year ago
As a part of that it was left to my discretion to chat and appoint OPs as and when we felt they were ready.
As <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki> was my mentor for a while on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam | UBT]]</nowiki> and instilled into me the role of <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/catalysts.shtml | freenode-catalyst]]</nowiki>. Each and everyone of the current OPs on Lubuntu not only follow the letter of the rules, but also the spirit. They are our ambassadors, and I am privalidged to count them also as good friends. I have no hesitation in recommending <nowiki>[[MrChrisDruif]]</nowiki> who was appointed as a Lubuntu OP <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> 7th Jan 2012
