{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==

Matthew Ruffell

I first got interested in Linux when one of my highschool friends introduced me to the idea of Open Source, and I was blown away about such high quality software, with full sources available, all free.

I started using Linux full time as my primary operating system in January 2013, with Quantal Quetzel (12.10). Since then, I have been installing whatever the latest distro release every six months ever since, and I' still loving it.

Over the years I have been interested in Reverse Engineering, C Programming, and lately, Kernel development.

I even started my own distro, <nowiki>[[https://dapperlinux.com|Dapper Linux]]</nowiki> in a previous life as a PhD student.

I joined Canonical in March 2019 in Sustaining Engineering, where I get to dive deep on customer bugs and work them to resolution. I love the varied work of jumping into all sorts of packages in the archive, and across various kernel subsystems.

== Contact Information ==
Feel free to reach out about Linux, Ubuntu, Security, Reverse Engineering and any other related topics at the below:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| mruffell on libra.chat, Canonical Mattermost
|-
| Website
| https://ruffell.nz
|-
| Email
| matthew.ruffell@canonical.com
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~mruffell
|}

== Applications ==

** <nowiki>[[SRUDeveloperApplication|SRU Developer]]</nowiki>

== Contributions ==

** <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Matthew+Ruffell&sponsoree_search=name|My Uploads (sponsoree)]]</nowiki>

** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mruffell/+uploaded-packages|Launchpad Uploaded Packages]]</nowiki>
