{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This document describes the policy for updating the mstflint package to new upstream versions in a stable, supported distro (including LTS releases).

The mstflint package provides a set of utilities for managing Mellanox network adapters - including updating firmware, configuring firmware, and diagnostics. It is provided a universe package. New upstream releases of this package may add support for new hardware, or extend support for existing hardware.

New versions of mstflint can be SRU'd in to older releases provided the following process is followed:

=== QA Process ===

When a new version of mstflint is uploaded to -proposed, the following will be done:

* Confirm that the set of utilities provided by the -proposed version of mstflint is a superset of those provided by the existing version.
* Confirm that the command line options for each command in the -proposed version of mstflint are a superset of those provided by the existing version.
* The mstflint package is tested if it can be upgraded from the previous version.
* Mellanox will perform functional testing to confirm that the updated version of mstflint works as expected. The current set of tests is described in <nowiki>[[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WJL6ECOcSpKUsQryC2soQHdkdh_sYtvY/view?usp=sharing|this document]]</nowiki>.

=== Requesting the SRU ===

The SRU should be done with a single process bug for this stable release exception, instead of individual bug reports for individual bug fixes. However, individual bugs may be referenced in the changelog and each of those bugs will need to be independently verified and commented on for the SRU to be considered complete.

=== SRU Template ===
<pre>
[Impact]
This release contains both bug-fixes, new hardware support, and new features for users of Mellanox network controllers. The notable ones are:

** <TODO: Create list with LP: # included>

[Test Case]
The following development and SRU process will be followed:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mstflint-Updates

[Regression Potential]
In order to mitigate the regression potential, the aforementioned testing will be performed. The results of that testing, delineated in the following checklist, will be captured in this bug prior to adding the verification-done tag:

[ ] Verified that all of the utilities from the current version in this series are still present in the new version.
[ ] Verified that the supported flags for each utility in the new version, as described in --help output, are a superset of the existing version in this series.
[ ] The existing version of mstflint upgrades cleanly to the new version.
[ ] Mellanox has executed their mstflint test plan, and results are uploaded to this bug for each series.
</pre>
