{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

~+'''Approved''' (./) +~: This page is left for posterity

===== Michael Terry's Ubuntu Membership Application =====

(for the <nowiki>[[Membership-RegionalBoards-Americas|Americas regional board]]</nowiki>)

Summary: I am a developer that contributes patches for lots of different things, but with no specific focus.  I maintain a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/deja-dup|backup application]]</nowiki> that I package for Ubuntu.

Launchpad profile: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mterry|mterry]]</nowiki>

====== Contributions ======
* I've contributed <nowiki>[[mterry-Uploads|several debdiffs]]</nowiki> to Ubuntu.
* I maintain a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~deja-dup-team/+archive/ppa|PPA]]</nowiki> for backported/bleeding-edge <nowiki>[[http://duplicity.nongnu.org/|duplicity]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/deja-dup|deja-dup]]</nowiki> packages.
* I've attended the last two (Intrepid & Jaunty) Ubuntu Developer Summits, and will attend Karmic's.
* I am a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-ma|Massachusetts, USA LoCo]]</nowiki>.

====== Future Ubuntu plans ======
* I'd like to see a closer integration between my pet project <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/deja-dup|deja-dup]]</nowiki> and Ubuntu.  Ubuntu hasn't historically had a backup story at all, but I think it's attainable.  I spoke at the Jaunty UDS backup session about it.
* I intend to continue contributing patches and debdiffs, with the goal of becoming a MOTU.

====== Endorsements ======
* Michael Terry is a great guy and very easy to work with. He follows up quickly when necessary and his work is always top-notch. A bit more work in the <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> team and he'd be a great addition to the team. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki> 
* Michael is an enthusiastic member of the Ubuntu family, he is doing a lot for the project and is really easy to work with. Clear +1 from me. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nvalcarcel]]</nowiki> 
