{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mt-st]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
# ''Rationale:''
** Runtime dependency for bacula.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=mt-st|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mt-st|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid. 
** No daemons.
** No Network activity
** It does not directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review done.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The situation where it does not work out of the box is
that it might not support the scsi tape drive.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:mt-st|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 
** udev bug does not create a symlink.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mt-st.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[ftp:--ftp.ibiblio.org-pub-linux-system-backup|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** No known upstream bug tracker.
** Deals with magntetic tape drive.
** No upstream test suite.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant.
** Uses debhelper with dpatch system. No packaging oddities 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, dpatch
** All are in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mt-st/+bug/286528]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
