{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

My name is Muammar and I live in Venezuela. I'm 25 years old. I'm a Chemistry student. I'm passionate about 4 things: Debian, Quantum Chemistry, playing the guitar and taking pictures.

I'm maintaining some packages into <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org|Debian]]</nowiki>. You can find my Debian Quality Assurance web page on the link I show below:

<nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=muammarelkhatib%40gmail.com|http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=muammarelkhatib%40gmail.com]]</nowiki>

I am an active member of <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org.ve|Debian Venezuela]]</nowiki> which is a group of Debian Developers and maintainers in my country.

I've also done QA work like sending ping-mails to maintainers in Work-Needing and Prospective Packages, fixing bad reports (e.g. bad short descriptions and any kind of mistake). I have given assistance and  support to some maintainers who are newer than me, too.

I am applying to be a DD. You can see my Status Page:

<nowiki>[[https://nm.debian.org/nmstatus.php?email=muammarelkhatib%40gmail.com|https://nm.debian.org/nmstatus.php?email=muammarelkhatib%40gmail.com]]</nowiki>

=== Mails ===

* muammar@debian.org.ve

* muammarelkhatib@gmail.com

* muammark@users.sourceforge.net

* muammar@proyectociencia.org

=== Phone ===

* +582617542262

* +584125287229

=== IRC ===

You can find me in many Debian channels at OFTC under the nickname muammar.

=== Links ===

* My Blog: http://muammar.me

* Velug: http://maracaibo.velug.org.ve

* Debian Venezuela: http://www.debian.org.ve

* Proyecto Ciencia: http://www.proyectociencia.org
 
