{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Myself ===
I was born in Pondok Gede, Indonesia, 24 years ago. Currently I'm living in Bandung, West Java, still in Indonesia. 
I'm starting using linux since 2004, and using a full Ubuntu System since 2006 (edgy eft) until present (Karmic Koala). I have a lot of interest in debian packaging and kernel development. I have join on the ubuntu kernel team mailing list, but I have not post any meaningful post yet. :-) 

I am one of the <nowiki>[[http://dev.blankonlinux.or.id | BlankOn developer]]</nowiki>. I have role in the <nowiki>[[http://www.blankonlinux.or.id/ | BlankOn]]</nowiki> packaging team. I build the debian package for specific <nowiki>[[http://www.blankonlinux.or.id/ | BlankOn]]</nowiki> package, import the ubuntu package to be <nowiki>[[http://www.blankonlinux.or.id/ | BlankOn]]</nowiki> package, maintain it, and test it before it uploaded to the <nowiki>[[http://irgsh.blankonlinux.or.id/ | server]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact ===
* Email:  * GTalk: rametux AT gmail DOT com
* Y!M: mbay_muhammad
* IRC: RameTux or rmTx on network irc.freenode.net
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rametux | Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Activity ===
# Spreading Ubuntu spirit through the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-id.org | Indonesia LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
# Translating Ubuntu apps into Indonesia.
# Helping people in #ubuntu-id and the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntulinux.or.id/forum | forum]]</nowiki> as moderator.

----
CategoryHomepage
