{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Muharem Hrnjadovic ===

Computer aficionado and hacker .. <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=muharem+hrnjadovic&btnG=Google+Search&meta=|google for more]]</nowiki> if this is too short for you :-)

==== Transition to new key ====
<pre>
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1,SHA256

For a number of reasons, i've recently set up a new OpenPGP key, and
will be transitioning away from my old one.

The old key will continue to be valid for some time, but i prefer all
future correspondence to come to the new one.  I would also like this
new key to be re-integrated into the web of trust.  This message is
signed by both keys to certify the transition.

the old key was:

pub   1024D/607FAC52 2008-03-02
      Key fingerprint = 131E FA03 4525 0A6E 7029  29AD B717 2D69 607F AC52

And the new key is:

pub   4096R/B2BBFCFC 2009-05-13
      Key fingerprint = A5A3 CC67 2B87 D641 103F  5602 219F 6B60 B2BB FCFC

To fetch my new key from a public key server, you can simply do:

  gpg --keyserver pgp.mit.edu --recv-key B2BBFCFC

If you already know my old key, you can now verify that the new key is
signed by the old one:

  gpg --check-sigs B2BBFCFC

If you don't already know my old key, or you just want to be double
extra paranoid, you can check the fingerprint against the one above:

  gpg --fingerprint B2BBFCFC

If you are satisfied that you've got the right key, and the UIDs match
what you expect, I'd appreciate it if you would sign my key:

  gpg --sign-key B2BBFCFC

Lastly, if you could upload these signatures, i would appreciate it.
You can either send me an e-mail with the new signatures (if you have
a functional MTA on your system):

  gpg --armor --export B2BBFCFC | mail -s 'New OpenPGP key signature' muharem@ubuntu.com

Or you can just upload the signatures to a public keyserver directly:

  gpg --keyserver pgp.mit.edu --send-key B2BBFCFC

Please let me know if there is any trouble, and sorry for the
inconvenience.

Regards,

    -- Muharem Hrnjadovic
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (GNU/Linux)
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=r7OY
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
</pre>

----
CategoryHomepage
