{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Mission ===

The Ubuntu Multiseat team aims to improve multiseat support in Ubuntu.

What is multiseat?  See <nowiki>[[Multiseat]]</nowiki>.

=== Some History ===
Thanks to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pitti|Martin Pitt]]</nowiki>'s <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-1303-consolekit-logind-migration|work toward switching from ConsoleKit to logind]]</nowiki> (also see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1153224|bug #1153224]]</nowiki>), most of the code necessary to support multiseat was added to Ubuntu 13.04 (raring).  However, two main problems remained:
* lightdm didn't follow <nowiki>[[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/writing-display-managers/|the protocol for supporting multiseat]]</nowiki>.  There was no way to configure raring's version of lightdm to follow the protocol -- source code changes were necessary.
* While support for logind was completed in Ubuntu 13.10 (saucy), not all raring packages supported logind.  Martin started adding support for logind before raring was released, but not all of the fixes made it in to raring.
This team was created to address these problems.

=== Resources ===

** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat|ubuntu-multiseat team page at Launchpad]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-multiseat/|Mailing list archives]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===

There are a few ways to get our attention:

** <nowiki>[[MultiseatTeam-GettingInvolved|Join the team]]</nowiki>
** Send an email to ubuntu-multiseat@lists.launchpad.net (you do not need to be a member of the mailing list to post to the mailing list).
** Log in to Launchpad, go to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat|ubuntu-multiseat team page]]</nowiki>, and click on the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+contactuser|"Contact this team's members" link]]</nowiki>.
** Subscribe the ubuntu-multiseat team to an existing bug report from <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/]]</nowiki>.
** Subscribe the ubuntu-multiseat team to an existing question from <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryMultiseatTeam CategoryMultiseat CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryTeam
