{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is for exploring issues encountered with the Lenovo MT hardware. Once we're capable of formulating these into actual tickets/bugs in Launchpad, we will do so.

=== Touch Area ===

The first big problem I have noticed with the MT-enabled T410s is that the touch area is not equally sensitive at all points. Using <code>gesturetest</code> to get touch feedback, below I have roughly plotted the responsiveness of light touches across the screen. The "O"s represent a successful touch and the "-"s represent a touch that did not result in any feedback.

'''Light-pressure Touches'''
<pre>
O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - O - - -
O - O - O - O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
O - - O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
O O O O - - O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
O O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
O O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - O - 
O O O O O O - - O - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  
O O - - O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - O -
O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - O O O O O
O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - O O O O O 
</pre>

'''Medium-pressure Touches'''
<pre>
O O O O O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - O O O - 
O O O O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - O - O - 
O O O O - O - - - - O - - - - - - - - - - - - 
O O O - - O - - O - - - O - - - - - - - - - - 
O O O O O O O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
O O O O O O O O O - - O O O - O - - - O O O O  
O O O O O - - - O O - - - O - - - - - - O - -
O O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - O - -
O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
O O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
O O O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - O - O O O
O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - O O O O O O O
</pre>

'''Heavy-pressure Touches'''

With enough pressure and duration of a gesture, all areas of the screen respond to touch. See conclusions below.

'''Conclusions'''

After performing these screen tests and some more experimentation, the following observations were made:
* all areas of the screen will provide a touch response as long as
** the pressure is great enough (sometimes a lot of pressure is required), and
** the contact is held long enough
* some areas of the screen just need a quick, light press
* some areas of the screen need to be pressed hard and held for as long as a second
* all areas of the screen responded after one second (with enough pressure applied)
* Windows has a similar issue on the T410s, but it is much, much less noticeable -- it's a mild responsiveness annoyance, rather than a glaring issue
* as such, there is a definite issue in Linux with this particular piece of hardware

Note that a ticket was filed about this issue:
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/utouch-grail/+bug/626769|Work around possible touch hardware issues in Lenovo T410s]]</nowiki>
* After calibration, the hardware began operating normally and this ticket was marked as invalid.
* <nowiki>[[Multitouch-Calibration-Ntrig|Here are instructions]]</nowiki> for calibrating N-trig-based devices on Linux.
