{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

The MultiseatTeam maintains packages in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>.  These packages are Ubuntu packages that have been patched to improve support for multiseat.

== Status ==
See <nowiki>[[MultiseatTeam-Status]]</nowiki>

== Instructions ==
See <nowiki>[[MultiseatTeam-Instructions]]</nowiki>

== Known Issues ==

* DVB device ACLs and MythTV: `udev` and `logind` want only logged-in users to have access to attached DVB devices.  This is accomplished by setting up `/dev` ACLs when a user logs in.  Unfortunately, this conflicts with MythTV, which always wants access to the TV tuner device(s).  I'm not exactly sure how to fix this.  Modifying `/lib/udev/rules.d/70-uaccess.rules` and `70-udev-acl.rules` and commenting out the `dvb` lines seems to work, but is fragile -- those files will be replaced the next time `systemd-services` and `udev` are upgraded.  `udev` apparently doesn't provide a way to remove a tag once one has been set, so putting a new file in `/etc/udev/rules.d` won't work.  Anyone have any ideas?
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/976124|bug #976124]]</nowiki>: On some systems, only one user can be logged in by typing a password at a time. All other users must be automatically logged in via LightDM's `autologin-user` setting.
* Due to a technical limitation in Linux's virtual terminal subsystem and how it interacts with X, only `seat0` can switch users.  To switch users on another seat you must first log out and then log back in as the other user.  Perhaps <nowiki>[[Mir]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://wayland.freedesktop.org/|Wayland]]</nowiki>, and/or <nowiki>[[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/kmscon/|kmscon]]</nowiki> will address this.
* LightDM is unaware that user switching is unsupported on non-`seat0` seats.  It will allow you to try to switch, but fails to switch.
* --(<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1190581|bug #1190581]]</nowiki>: Automatic multiseat support has not yet been implemented)-- Automatic multiseat support was added in release 1.11.7. Backported patches for v1.10 are available at `trusty-updates` repository.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1356332|bug #1356332]]</nowiki>: Proper nested-X-server multiseat support has not yet been implemented.

== ChangeLog ==
 2015-03-17::
** Reintroduce packages `xorg-server` (for trusty and vivid) and `xorg-server-lts-utopic` (for trusty) in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>, rebuilt with `--enable-kdrive-evdev` configure option, needed for Xephyr-based multiseat setups (for cases where `xserver-xorg-video-nested` doesn't work as expected).
 2015-02-23::
** Delete all `xorg-server-lts-utopic` related packages from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>, as they are already available in `trusty-updates` repository.
 2014-12-19::
** Delete trusty package `gvfs` from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>. After a closer look, we've found that package version already available at official repository already has all logind support we need. We recommend users to downgrade `gvfs` to the version available in official repository:
 {{{
     sudo apt install gvfs{,-{backends,daemons,libs,common,bin,fuse}}=1.20.1-1ubuntu1 
 }}}
 2014-12-18::
** Delete trusty package `xorg-server` from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>, since a new version with backported multiseat patches from 1.16 series is already available at `trusty-updates` repository.
 2014-12-15::
** Delete all remaining raring/saucy packages from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>, as they have reached their end of life.
** Backport latest `xorg-server` package from `trusty-proposed` repository to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>, after a security release in `trusty-updates` that doesn't include required multiseat patches yet.
 2014-12-11::
** Delete trusty `lightdm` package from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>, since a new version with automatic multiseat support is already available at `trusty-updates` repository.
** Delete some saucy packages from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>, as saucy has reached its end of life.
 2014-11-07::
** Copy trusty `lightdm` package from trusty-proposed to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>, lowering package version so it can be updated safely when it reaches trusty-updates.
 2014-11-04::
** Copy trusty `xorg-server` package from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~canonical-x/+archive/ubuntu/x-staging|Canonical X Staging PPA]]</nowiki>, which already includes our patches backported from 1.16 series, to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>. This package will reach trusty-updates repo soon.
** Also copy trusty `xorg-server-lts-utopic` and related packages from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~canonical-x/+archive/ubuntu/x-staging|Canonical X Staging PPA]]</nowiki> to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|Multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>, for those who want to upgrade Xorg server to release 1.16 in Ubuntu 14.04 LTS. These packages will reach trusty-updates repo soon.
 2014-08-25::
** Update trusty `lightdm` package:
*** Add experimental support to simple globbing in seat config sections for seats handled by logind (e.g. `[Seat:seat-*]`).
 2014-08-22::
** Update trusty `lightdm` package:
*** Backport some logind-related patches from trunk.
*** Update automatic multiseat patch following feedback from upstream.
*** Disable patch to allow starting a bare X server introduced previously, until a new updated one can be written.
 2014-08-15::
** Introduce two new patches in trusty `lightdm` package: add automatic multiseat support (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1190581|bug #1190581]]</nowiki>), and add a new seat option to make lightdm start a bare X server, needed for Xephyr-based multiseat setups (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1356332|bug #1356332]]</nowiki>).
 2014-08-03::
** update trusty `xorg-server` package
 2014-07-03::
** Cherry-pick patch from `lightdm` trunk <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~lightdm-team/lightdm/trunk/revision/2006|revision 2006]]</nowiki> to trusty package: "Do timed autologin each time you are returned to the greeter"
 2014-07-02::
** Introduced package `xserver-xorg-video-nested` for trusty and utopic. It may be an alternative to Xephyr for single-card multiseat setups.
 2014-06-09::
** Backport package `udisks2` from utopic to trusty. It already includes all necessary changes for logind seat tracking support.
** Backport package `gvfs` from utopic to trusty. It may have any additional changes to match logind seat tracking enabled in backported package `udisks2`.
 2014-05-06::
** Update Xephyr patches on trusty `xorg-server` package for window placement once again, after Keith Packard's <nowiki>[[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.freedesktop.xorg.devel/41660|feedback at xorg-devel]]</nowiki> mailing list.
 2014-04-30::
** Fix Xephyr patch introduced at 2014-04-26.
 2014-04-26::
** Reintroduce Xephyr patches for window placement, following new approach based on multi-seat-xephyr code (trusty `xorg-server` package only).
 2014-04-24::
** introduce trusty `udisks2` package rebuilt with additional build-dependencies `libsystemd-login-dev` and `libsystemd-daemon-dev`.
 2014-04-22::
** update trusty `xorg-server` package
 2014-03-14::
** drop Xephyr window placement patch from package `xorg-server` for both saucy and trusty
** update trusty `xorg-server` package
 2014-03-12::
** update saucy `lightdm` package
 2014-03-06::
** introduce new package `multi-seat-xephyr` for both saucy and trusty (updated daily)
 2014-02-21::
** update X.Org server configuration instructions
** introduce trusty `gdm` package with multiseat patches
** move status and instructions to separate wiki pages
** From now on, this changelog will only note changes to PPA packages.  Changes to the wiki pages can be found by looking at the edit history.
 2014-02-20::
** update `gdm` status
** update `xorg-server` status
** introduce trusty `xorg-server` package with multiseat patches
 2014-02-19::
** update X.Org server configuration instructions
** update `xorg-server` status
 2014-02-18::
** saucy `gdm`: revert patch introduced at 2013-11-01 (see above)
** add more details to udev instructions
 2014-02-17::
** saucy `xorg-server`: update to newer upstream version
** update `xorg-server` status
** added `MatchSeat` example for xorg-server configuration
 2014-02-16::
** update `lightdm` configuration instructions
 2014-02-14::
** moved instructions, known issues, and changelog from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa]]</nowiki> to this wiki page
** `lightdm`: update to newer upstream version
 2013-12-27::
** raring `systemd`: cherry-pick changes made for 198-0ubuntu12 (to get `org.freedesktop.login1` dbus service)
 2013-11-07::
** `lightdm`: update to newer upstream version
 2013-11-01::
** saucy `gdm`: add patch to prevent getting inactive graphical session for `seat0`. PROBLEMS MAY STILL OCCUR WITH USER-SWITCHING ON `seat0`!!! See: <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1018196]]</nowiki>
 2013-10-25::
** backport newer saucy `gdm` to raring to get `logind` support; add multiseat automatic login patch that was just added to the saucy version of `gdm`
 2013-10-24::
** update instructions
** raring `xorg-server`: add fix for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1228095|bug #1228095]]</nowiki>, include evdev driver suport in kdrive, and add a new `MatchSeat` option (to match saucy xorg-server)
** add saucy `gdm` with support for automatic login in multiseat setups. see: <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=704581]]</nowiki>
 2013-10-23::
** saucy `xorg-server`: add fix for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1228095|bug #1228095]]</nowiki>, include evdev driver support in kdrive, and add a new `MatchSeat` option. See: <nowiki>[[http://lists.x.org/archives/xorg-devel/2013-September/037945.html]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://lists.x.org/archives/xorg-devel/2013-September/037946.html]]</nowiki>
 2013-10-19::
** raring `dbus`: cherry-pick changes from saucy 1.6.12-0ubuntu6 and 1.6.12-0ubuntu7
** raring `network-manager`: cherry-pick bluetooth bug fix from saucy 0.9.8.0-0ubuntu22 (also raring 0.9.8.0-0ubuntu6.1)
** raring `policykit-1`: update to latest saucy version
** saucy `unity-greeter`: remove; new upstream version has been released with multiseat change integrated
** `xorg-server`: apply fix for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1209008|bug #1209008]]</nowiki> to latest version
** raring `gnome-screensaver`, `gnome-settings-daemon`: update to newer saucy versions to get `logind` fixes
** `lightdm`: apply multiseat patches to latest version
 2013-08-14::
** update `xorg-server` and `unity-greeter` for saucy
** update `lightdm` multiseat patch from multiseat bzr branch
 2013-08-10::
** update patch for `unity-greeter`
 2013-08-08::
** add `unity-greeter` with fix for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1201122|bug #1201122]]</nowiki> integrated
** add `xorg-server` with fix for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1209008|bug #1209008]]</nowiki> integrated
** update known issues
 2013-08-07::
** migrate PPA from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~a7x/+archive/multiseat]]</nowiki>
** add instruction to tag each seat's video card with `master-of-seat`
** update known issues
 2013-08-04::
** update `lightdm` to the latest upstream version
** `lightdm`: change `xserver-seat` setting name to `xdg-seat`
** other miscellaneous internal `lightdm` cleanups in preparation for submission upstream
 2013-07-20::
** upload `lightdm` for saucy
 2013-07-18::
** backport newer `indicator-session`
** remove known issues that I believe are fixed by the newer `indicator-session`
 2013-07-17::
** update known issues
** update `dbus`
 2013-07-15::
** update known issues
 2013-07-14::
** interpret LightDM `xserver-vt=0` setting to mean `-sharevts`
** add documentation for the new LightDM settings
** improve LightDM logging
** update instructions
** update known issues
** backport newer upstream (saucy) packages to get better `logind` support
** add backported `acpi-support` package to drop `consolekit` dependency
 2013-07-12::
** update instructions
** update known issues
 2013-07-11::
** initial upload of packages for raring
** initial draft of instructions
----
CategoryMultiseatTeam
