{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/multiple-package-installation
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Currently, manually installing software using deb files often requires downloading and installing multiple packages, which should be avoided. It would be ideal to use develop a special format using a tar.gz file (or similar) for the archive that contains the deb packages as well as a file that tells the installation program what order to install the packages, as well as other useful information.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===

* Brad wants to install the free NX server from http://www.nomachine.com. He downloads the main server package, and discovers he needs another package. He downloads that and discovers he needs another one. He wishes there was an easier way to install it.
* Sharon is a new Linux user and wants to install Democracy Player from http://www.getdemocracy.com. She is confused and wonders why she needs to download and install two packages to get one program. She thinks it would make more sense to have a single download.
* David wants to install Inkscape from http://www.inkscape.org, but doesn't have internet. He is rather annoyed from going to a computer that has internet to download a package each time he finds out he is missing a dependency.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
