{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Help Wanted! ===

Many hands make light work, and there's lots to do!  We'd love any help we can get, no matter how small:
* coding new features
* fixing bugs
* reviewing code changes
* packaging
* testing
* spiffing up the wiki pages
* writing documentation
* answering questions
* creating artwork (I'd love to have a nice logo for the team)
* planning
* responding to bug comments
* providing translations
* etc.

Anyone who has signed the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct|Ubuntu code of conduct]]</nowiki> is welcome to join.

=== Why Join? ===

By joining, you will:
* receive emails sent to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-multiseat/|ubuntu-multiseat mailing list]]</nowiki>
* be able to upload packages to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+archive/ppa|the multiseat PPA]]</nowiki>
* be able to push to <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat|the team's bzr branches]]</nowiki>
* be able to create and edit <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat|the team's blueprints]]</nowiki>

=== How to Join ===

The `ubuntu-multiseat` team is a moderated team, which means that membership must be approved.  But don't let that scare you -- joining is easy.

Interested in joining the MultiseatTeam?  Here's how:

1. sign the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct|Ubuntu code of conduct]]</nowiki>
2. <nowiki>[[mailto:ubuntu-multiseat@lists.launchpad.net|send us an email]]</nowiki> and tell us:
** Your launchpad username (so we can check to see if you've signed the code of conduct)
** How you would like to contribute to the team.  Remember:  no contribution is too small!
** Any relevant experience you might have.  For example:  Have you ever created a custom `.deb`?  Have you ever uploaded a package to a PPA?  Do you know how to use bzr?  Do you know any programming languages?
3. Go to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-multiseat/+join]]</nowiki> and click the "join" button
----
CategoryMultiseatTeam
