{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Build ===

Before using, we need to get the code and build it:
<pre>
 $ bzr branch lp:~oif-team/oif/ntrig-calibrator
 $ cd ntrig-calibrator
 $ sudo apt-get install libusb-dev
 $ make
</pre>

=== Calibrating the Device ===

So far, we've seen evidence that the latest N-trig firmware causes the hardware to slowly become "de-calibrated" and in need of updating. The simplest way to determine if your device is capturing touch events in an expected manner is to use the <nowiki>[[Multitouch-Testing-UsingMtview|mtview tool]]</nowiki>. If when you run <code>mtview</code> your device is only showing touches for some parts of the screen, touches are offset, or you have to press very hard to register a touch, calibration is very likely needed.

To calibrate your N-trig device, just do the following:
<pre>
sudo ./calib.sh
</pre>

For which, you should get output something like the following:
<pre>
[sudo] password for oubiwann: 
make: `calib' is up to date.
bus 0
bus 0
done
make: `firmware' is up to date.
firmware version: 4.7.17.20.7 (0c001e08 8f220000)
mode: 0d010000
</pre>

Usually, one pass of the tool will fix things up. Try running <nowiki>[[Multitouch-Testing-UsingMtview|mtview]]</nowiki> again, to see if your touch experience has improved. On occasion, a user has needed to run <code>calib.sh</code> multiple times to see good results.
