{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/compose-music
* '''Packages affected''': rosegarden, jokosher, lilypond, noteedit

=== Summary ===
In short, Linux sports a variety of different Score Editors, Midi Sequencers, and Audio Editors, but the issue here is startup and integration. Music composition and scoring for the less technically adept musician should be a breeze.
=== Rationale ===
While there exists the core software and technologies for Music creation on Linux, solutions are hacky, and often require a lot of dirty work to set up. The user should be able to sit down at a computer, and punch out the first measure of a song in no more than a few minutes. 

=== Use cases ===
* Music Student: Probably the most common case for this scenario. Windows solutions such as Finale cost in the hundereds, and students are always strapped for cash. The student doesn't need a full-fledged production studio, but wants to be able to score and try different ideas and preview them. Then, record and mix those scores. 
* Curious New User: If anyone has spent time with people who are new to Mac, you have probably seen the fascination with Garage Band. Ton's of people with no more musical knowlege then recorder in the 3rd grade will start to haul together notes, and some of them are pretty good ;)
* College A Capella: I know this seems stupid at first, but in the US, a capella groups are huge in college, and they need to arranging their music. Especially for groups at schools that don't offer site-liscensed versions of other composition software, this could become huge. 

=== Scope ===
* Either add a score editor to jokosher, or make one of the solutions that depend on Jack easier to set up and start working with.
=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

<nowiki>[[Warbo]]</nowiki>: UbuntuStudio is aiming to do this very thing. I believe their approach is 1) get backend stuff sorted out for the whole of Ubuntu (kernel stuff, sound servers, etc.) 2) package up multimedia (audio and video) applications so they will work straight off when installed over Ubuntu's newly fixed backend (oo-er :) ). If you are interested in this spec then I would keep an eye on UbuntuStudio, maybe tell them about this page, and possibly even join them (I am not part of UbuntuStudio, I just like to trawl through the RecentChanges page and offer my comments where I can :) )

----
CategorySpec
