{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''2014-06-15'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Ish Sookun <ish@hacklog.in>
* '''Membership''' - 38 as of 12th August 2014
* '''Launchpad Team''' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mu
* '''Mailing List''' - LUGM <discuss@discuss.lugm.org>
* '''IRC''' - #linux.mu on freenode

=== Roadmap ===

* ''MariaDB/MySQL Presentation'' - 15 August 2014 at Flying Dodo, Bagatelle. Technical presentation by Joffrey Michaïe. Followed by discussions on Linuxfest 2014 & participation of Ubuntu Mauritius.
* ''Ubuntu Global Jam - Mauritius'' - 12 September 2014 on the Campus of <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-mu/2874-ubuntu-global-jam-mauritius/|University of Mauritius]]</nowiki>.
* ''Linuxfest 2014'' - No date announced yet.
* ''Infotech 2014'' - Participation of Ubuntu Mauritius at the Infotech 2014 <http://www.infotech.mu>.
* ''Ignite Talk'' - Ubuntu Mauritius introduction during Ignite Talk. Date to be announced yet.

=== Experience ===

Previous events/activities

* ''Ubuntu Mauritius Presentation'' - Presenting Ubuntu Mauritius during Linux User Group of Mauritius meetup <http://lugm.org/category/ubuntu-mauritius/>.
* ''Corsair Hackers Reboot <http://lugm.org/corsair>'' - Ubuntu installation during <nowiki>[[http://hacklog.in/corsair-hackers-reboot-as-it-happened|Corsair Hackers Reboot]]</nowiki>.
* ''National Open Source Policy workshop'' - Introduced Ubuntu Mauritius during the National Open Source Policy workshop organized by the <nowiki>[[http://www.gov.mu/English/News/Pages/ICT--Development-of-National-Open-Source-Software-Policy-Strategy.aspx|National Computer Board]]</nowiki>.
* ''Linuxfest 2013'' - Ubuntu presentation by Nadim Attari.
* ''Infotech 2013'' - Installation of Ubuntu on notebook at the NCB (National Computer Board) stand. Ubuntu demos for public.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
