{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

General Mutt <nowiki>[[http://www.mutt.org/doc/manual/|documentation]]</nowiki>.

== Introduction ==

Mutt is a powerful command line email client. It supports both mbox and Maildir formats. The protocols supported include POP3 and IMAP. It was originally designed to be a Mail User Agent (MUA) and used to rely on Sendmail  but support for sending mail was eventually added.

== Features ==

* Full MIME support, full PGP/GPG and S/MIME integration.
* Message scoring and threading capabilities.
* Mutt relies on external tools for composing and filtering messages.
* Support for mail threading
* Message composing is done using an external text editor of the users choice.
* Keyboard Macros for performing complex functions
* Extensible functions using patches

== Installing ==

{{{#!highlight bash
sudo apt-get install mutt}}}

== Configuration ==

The configuration file ~/.muttrc will be used for each users. If it is not present, then the global config file /etc/Muttrc will be used.

<pre>
~$ touch ~/.muttrc
~$ sudo chmod 600 ~/.muttrc
~$ nano ~/.muttrc
</pre>

<pre>

set realname = "alice"
set from = "alice.sub@email.com"
set use_from = no
set envelope_from ="yes"

mailboxes imap://mail.com
set folder="imap://mail.com/INBOX"  
set imap_user="alice" #your IMAP user name or login
set imap_pass="mysecret" #your IMAP password

set spoolfile = /var/mail/alice
</pre>

== Help ==

* http://wiki.mutt.org/index.cgi?MuttGuide
* http://www.therandymon.com/woodnotes/mutt/using-mutt.html
* http://mutt.blackfish.org.uk/
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutt_(e-mail_client)
* http://www.andrews-corner.org/mutt.html ( Mutt + Gmail )
* https://we.riseup.net/riseup+volunteers/how-to-use-mutt-to-access-your-riseup-mail ( Mutt + riseup )
