{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu-MM Members ==

This page contains the current list of members of the MyanmarTeam.
See our u4mm.com Group Map at <nowiki>[[ http:--u4mm.com-myanmarteam- | MyanmarTeam ]]</nowiki> for more detail.

=== New Members ===
If you're a Myanmar user of Ubuntu and you want to join the MyanmarTeam, feel free to add yourself to the map and to the list of members below. A preliminary guide for those interested in joining or new members can be found on the <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam-Members-NewMembers|New Members]]</nowiki> page.

=== Core Member List ===
The following list is the core member of Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team, result of 5th November meeting.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''WikiName'''
| '''IRC Nickname'''
| '''Town/City'''
|-
| Chit Ko Ko Win
| -
| chitko
| Yangon
|-
| Ko Ko Ye`
| <nowiki>[[kokoye2007]]</nowiki>
| kokoye2007
| Yangon
|-
| Pyae Sone
| <nowiki>[[pyaesone]]</nowiki>
| gipsy
| Yangon
|-
| Than Htike Aung
| -
| -
| Thailand
|-
| Ye Htut Win
| <nowiki>[[thohi]]</nowiki>
| thohi
| Yangon
|-
| Naing Ye` Min
| <nowiki>[[NaingYeMinn]]</nowiki>
| Naingyeminn
| Yangon
|-
| Ye Thu Soe
| -
| -
| Yangon
|-
| Ye` Mon Kyaw
| -
| yemonkyaw
| Yangon
|-
| Ye` Wint Kyaw
| -
| yewintkyaw
| Yangon
|-
| Hein Htet Aung
| <nowiki>[[Hein Htet]]</nowiki>
| Ho No
| Yangon
|-
| Zaw Htet Aung
| <nowiki>[[saturnzaw]]</nowiki>
| kozawhtet
| Yangon
|-
| May Thu Aung
| -
| decembersnowlay15
| Yangon
|-
| Myat Thu
| <nowiki>[[MyatThu(Cymon)|MyatThu(Cymon)]]</nowiki>
| cymon13
| Yangon
|-
| Ye Min Phyo
| <nowiki>[[yeminphyo]]</nowiki>
| yemin
| Yangon
|-
| Aung Kaung Myat
| <nowiki>[[akmyat]]</nowiki>
| aung
| Yangon
|}
==== Facebook Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team Group ====

On 5th of November 2011, we have '''453''' member on our <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntu4mm/ | Facebook Group]]</nowiki>.

==== Ubuntu For Myanmar Google Group ====
On 30 of October 2011 we have '''163''' members on Google <nowiki>[[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!members/u4mm | Ubuntu For Myanmar Group]]</nowiki>.

=== Official Website ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Position'''
| '''Members'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-mm.net/|Ubuntu For Myanmar]]</nowiki>
| Administrator
| <nowiki>[[kokoye2007|Ko Ko Ye]]</nowiki>
|}

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryLoCoTeams
