{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Contact Ubuntu-MM ==

If you would like to volunteer some time to assist the Australian Team or would like some more information on the various aspects of what we do please get in contact with one of the members below.

=== Main Team Contact ===

The main team contact is appointed by the Ubuntu Community Council responsible for providing the link between the Ubuntu-MM team and the overall Ubuntu community. If you have questions or concerns about the group in general then please contact this person.

==== Ko Ko Ye` ====
* <nowiki>[[kokoye2007|Ubuntu Wiki Page]]</nowiki><<BR>>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kokoye2007|Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>

=== ubuntu-mm.com Website Administrators ===

These members administer the ubuntu-mm.com ubuntu-mm.net website, including the addition of new posts. If you would like to have something contributed to the website please get in contact with these members.

* <nowiki>[[kokoye2007|Ko Ko Ye`]]</nowiki>

=== Unofficial Local Contacts ===

<nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam-ContactUs-UnofficialLocalContacts|Various team members]]</nowiki> are happy to be contacted about Ubuntu issues of local interest.  Check out <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam-ContactUs-UnofficialLocalContacts | UnofficialLocalContacts]]</nowiki> for details.

