{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu-MM Projects ==

=== Overview ===
The Myanmar LoCo has a range of community driven projects we collaborate on to give back to the wider community and to promote growth and activity within the Loco. Projects range from collecting up locally relevant information like the wireless broadband page, ongoing events to contribute to Ubuntu specifically such as bug jams and other events like local meetings to engage the group on a more personal level. 

The projects page is a great place to start for anyone wanting to help out with the LoCo but just don't know where to start. Each project should have a contact point (even if it is just the mailing list) so it is easy to get in contact with the relevant people if others are interested.

If you have a project that you would like to document here by all means add it to the list and link it to a sub page off this one (but please also advertise this on the <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam-MailingLists|mailing list]]</nowiki> otherwise people will not know when the page is updated). This will enable us to keep the page neat and tidy. If you have any questions or are wanting to add information but are unsure how to just either <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam-MailingLists|email the mailing list]]</nowiki> or come in and <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam-IRC|chat to us in the IRC channels]]</nowiki>.

If you are looking for older projects that have not been updated or looked at in some time check the <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam-Archives|archives]]</nowiki> and if you feel your project has been moved in error feel free to bring it back and link it back to this page.

=== Projects ===
 
==== Local Ubuntu-MM face-to-face meetings ====
* This is a project designed to bring the Ubuntu-MM team together in person for <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam-Projects-LocalMeetings|local Ubuntu-MM face-to-face meetings]]</nowiki>. We are a vast geographical area so we do a lot of online meetings and discussion but sometimes being able to shake someone's hand is a good thing.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kokoye2007|Ko Ko Ye`]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Fallback Font Switcher ====
* This is a project designed to Ubuntu Myanmar User for System Font Changer. Example <nowiki>[[http://zawgyi.net| Zawgyi Font]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://unicode.org|Unicode Font]]</nowiki> Switch Easyway. We can use Easy GUI and CLI mode. this project is OSS. So who can contribute and support. Now Can download source and installer at <nowiki>[[https://github.com/seriousblaze/mm_FontSwitcher|mm-font-switcher]]</nowiki>. use ubuntu ppa ppa:ubuntu-mm/ppa and then update after install easy to sudo apt-get install <nowiki>[[apt:my-fs-cli|my-fs-cli]]</nowiki> 
** Source : <nowiki>[[https://github.com/seriousblaze/mm_FontSwitcher]]</nowiki>
** Direct Download : <nowiki>[[https://github.com/downloads/seriousblaze/mm_FontSwitcher/seriousblaze-mm_FontSwitcher_v1.0.tar.gz| seriousblaze-mm_FontSwitcher_v1.0.tar.gz]]</nowiki>
** Contact - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/naingyemin|Naing Ye Min]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Tara Dictionary ====
* En - My - En,Jp,Ko,Zh,Th,Ru Dictionary and Open data Project. Available in Lin, Win, Mac. Tara Dictionary for various languages which can capable of importing & exporting multiple dictionaries. Written in Qt GUI toolkit with cross platform compatibility. Also translated to various languages. This can also search on wikipedia & wiktionary using internet.

Using SQLite as main storage for dictionary. 
** Home Page : <nowiki>[[http://tarateam.com| Tara Team]]</nowiki>
** Download  : <nowiki>[[http://tarateam.com/2011/11/11/tara-dictionary-1-0/| Tara Dict 1.0]]</nowiki>
** Launchpad : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/taradict| Tara Dict]]</nowiki>
** Contact   : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~thanhtikeag|Than Htike Aung]]</nowiki>

==== LoCo Classroom ====

* A Monthly or two month One time class about one topic (can be aimed at beginners or more advanced users) organised by the LoCo, but everyone is welcome to come and join in. We, MyanmarTeam , also provide free short class, basic class, Advance class on Ubuntu.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/kokoye2007|Ko Ko Ye`]]</nowiki>

==== Artwork ====
* A <nowiki>[[Artwork|central location]]</nowiki> for the team to collect team specific artwork.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam-MailingLists|the mailing list]]</nowiki>.

==== Translation ====
* A place for information on how to <nowiki>[[Translation|translate Ubuntu programs into Burmese Language]]</nowiki> for people wanting to learn how to go about this. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-my|Ubuntu-l10n-my Launchpad]]</nowiki>.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sorlok-reaves|Seth N. Hetu]]</nowiki>.

==== Coming Soon ====
* Ubuntu Myanmar Manual Team 
* Ubuntu Manga Myanmar Team 
* Ubuntu Myanmar Artwork Team

