{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Name, Personal and Contact information ===

Myriam Rita Schweingruber

I am a trained pharmacist but also have experience as a professional school teacher for 18 years and translator for 20+ years.

Ubuntero: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~myriam]]</nowiki>

GPG key: 86FCA592

IRC-nick: Mamarok, myriam_rs

Email: , 
Blog: <nowiki>[[http://blogs.fsfe.org/myriam]]</nowiki>

=== Involvement in Free Software ===

==== Linuxbourg ====

Board member of the Fribourg based GNU/Linux User Group <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxbourg.ch]]</nowiki> since 2001, member since 2000, I help to organise install parties, promote Free Software and give support for Debian and Ubuntu. Various presentations.

==== Free Software Foundation Europe ====

I help FSFE <nowiki>[[http://www.fsfeurope.org]]</nowiki> at booths at important events in Europe since 2003. My main task are Free Software advocacy, explaining the work of FSFE to booth visitors, promoting the Fellowship of FSFE <nowiki>[[http://www.fsfe.org]]</nowiki> and selling merchandise. 

I also try to coordinate work of the FSFE Swiss Team since 2004 and help in mailing lists administration.

==== Wilhelm Tux ====

Founding member of the Swiss Campaign for Free Software <nowiki>[[http://www.wilhelmtux.ch]]</nowiki>, president 2004-2005, member

Past activities:
* Events: LOTS! <nowiki>[[http://lots.openexpo.ch/2005/index_en.html]]</nowiki>, "booth babe", presentation: "FSFE and Wilhelm Tux as an associate organisation"
* Interview: <nowiki>[[http://www.tagesanzeiger.ch/dyn/digital/hintergrund/513169.html]]</nowiki> about Software Patents

Various actions in Switzerland promoting Free Software, mainly trying to coordinate Wilhelm Tux work with FSFE.

==== Amarok/KDE ====

Currently trying to give a hand in the <nowiki>[[http://rokymotion.pwsp.net|Rokymotion]]</nowiki> group for the <nowiki>[[http://amarok.kde.org|Amarok music player]]</nowiki> - the best music player ever :-)
* Translations to French and occasionally German of the Amarok website.
* Bug triaging for Amarok and Phonon as well as other KDE SC projects
* User support on #amarok, #amarok.de and #amarok.fr for Amarok, #kde and #multimedia for KDE amongst other channels
* user support in the <nowiki>[[http://forums.kde.org/Amarok|Amarok forum]]</nowiki> and Moderator/Manager for the <nowiki>[[http://forums.kde.org|KDE forums]]</nowiki>
* Active member of the Amarok Team, KDE Quality Team, KDE Multimedia Team, KDE e.V

==== Ubuntu/Kubuntu ====

For Team memberships, please see my Launchpad profile <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~myriam]]</nowiki>.  Ubuntu member since September 2007.

I use Ubuntu since the Warty Warthog Preview release on my laptop, Kubuntu since its first release and stuck with it :-)
 
Activities so far:
* Helped to build the <nowiki>[[SwissTeam]]</nowiki>
* gave various talks about "How to collaborate in Free Software" <nowiki>[[attachment:HowToHelp-with-FreeSoftware-v0.1.odp]]</nowiki> at the Feisty Fawn Release Party, presenting the Ubuntu Project (talk based on <nowiki>[[http://joey.ubuntu-rocks.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2007/01/stanford-ubuntu-2007-01.odp|Joey Stanfords talk]]</nowiki>), interviews <nowiki>[[http://www.pctipp.ch/topthema/tt/36081.asp|PC-Tipp Topthema]]</nowiki>, 
* Ubuntu presentation <nowiki>[[attachment:Preview-Dapper-GULL.odp]]</nowiki> and advocacy at Journées du Libre, Geneva, May 14 2006 <nowiki>[[http://www.linux-gull.ch/gull/evenements/installconfigparty/]]</nowiki>
* Translation and proofreading in German and French
* helping out on the IRC support channels #kubuntu and #kubuntu-de whenever I find time to, helping as an IRC operator for #kubuntu and #kubuntu-offtopic
* trying to moderate the kubuntu-users mailing list since March 2009.
* occasional Bug reports and squashing, mostly bug handling upstream at KDE
* helped to organise the following release parties and events of the Swiss Team: Berne for Gutsy Gibbon 2007, Lausanne and Zürich for Hardy Heron 2008, Zürich for Intrepid Ibex 2008, Berne for Jaunty Jackalope 2009 and Bern for Karmic Koala 2009
* organised and held the booth at Open Expo 2008 and 2009 in both Berne and Winterthur

=== Skills ===

==== Translation ====

Languages:
* active: German, French, (English)
* passive: English, Italian, (French, German)

Working as a freelance translator for 20+ years, 

I have a limited interpretation experience, mainly helping out at events. My only public simultaneous interpretation was Richard Stallman speech from English -> French at WSIS phase one in Geneva on December 11 2003 <nowiki>[[http://www.wsis-online.net/smsi/classes/smsi/events/smsi-events-85559/event-view]]</nowiki>

Currently improving my Italian (target: obtain CELI 3 / PLIDA B2 and beyond). Planed: learn decent Spanish. Next: Japanese, Russian, Portuguese, etc.

==== Social ====

Experience in team leading (mainly in public pharmacy), moderation and conflict management (pharmacy and professional school). 

==== Software ====

* Good knowledge about various licenses, especially GPL, LGPL and other Free Software licenses. Disclaimer: IANAL
* more than 10 years of experience with Free Software, GNU/Linux advanced user (I really should pass LPI exams one day...)
* some 10+ years of teaching experience for various software, mainly Office applications. 
* Free Software Advocacy since 2000
* Some basic hacking knowledge:
** Currently unused: Scheme (beginner), Assembler for x86 (beginner), C (beginner), Java (beginner), Pascal (didn't touch it for 15+ years), Python (beginner) used to build web pages using HTML, PHP and Perl
** Currently used: Basic knowledge of C++ and Qt as well as QML

I really would love to learn coding on a more regular basis, but there are not enough hours in a day...

* Quality Assurance: organizing and teaching proper bug handling and follow up, organizing beta testing, general Project management, good knowledge of various bug trackers such as Bugzilla, Jira and Malone. Bood knowledge in software testing organisation, continuous integration and SQA.

==== Various ====

Booth work, marketing and sales. 
Running a freelancer business since 2001.
Experience in project management for small business.
Accounting basics for business and Swiss tax specific.

=== Cheers from the Community ===

I decided to run for the Kubuntu Council and need your support :)

* Myriam's bug triage has been invaluable to the Amarok team, and I've seen her contribute to the Multimedia team, Kubuntu, and other teams as well. Her user documentation is excellent. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~valorie-zimmerman|Valorie Zimmerman]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
