{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Dave Bush aka myrtlebeachbums
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~myrtlebeachbums|Launchpad Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/myrtlebeachbums|Wiki Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| myrtlebeachbums on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums ID:'''
| myrtlebeachbums
|}

=== About me ===

I am an LPI Level 1 certified Linux administrator, and I currently work as a Platform Engineer at the Myrtle Beach office of a network security company based in Atlanta, GA.

I graduated in 2006 from Capitol College in Laurel, MD with a Masters in Network Security.

I currently reside in Conway, SC with a very lazy English bulldog named Savannah. Prior to moving to the Myrtle Beach area I lived near Ithaca, NY where I worked for Borg Warner, and prior to that Corning, Inc.

Besides playing with Ubuntu quite a bit, I also enjoy scuba diving, geocaching, watching sports (hockey, soccer, rugby, NFL football), hanging out with friends and family, reading, and learning new things.

==== Background ====
I started with computers when TRS-80 Model 1's were new. I used a friend's VIC-20 as much as I could until my parents gave me my own VIC-20 for Christmas 1981. During this time I was using the original IBM PC's and IBM XT's at school, and learning as much about DOS 1.0 as I could. (A sign of age - I remember it being a big deal when DOS 2.0 came out because suddenly single sided floppy disks held 180k instead of 160k, and double sided held 360k instead of 320k.)

I continued to be a DOS junkie until Windows 95 came along and slowly removed my ability to control my system the way I wanted to.

In 1999 I purchased my first copy of Linux from Office Max in Massena, NY. Red Hat 5.2 didn't really do much for me, but a few months later while surfing eBay I found Red Hat 6.0 CD's and decided to give it another shot. I've been hooked on Linux since.

I used Red Hat up until around version 8. I'd had enough of dependency hell with RPM, but lacked the experience to install Debian for the benefit of apt. I went to Mandrake for the urpmi interface as a middle ground and stuck there until the first betas of the newer Debian installer were released.

After using Debian for a year or two some up and coming distro called Ubuntu was getting a lot of press, so I figured I'd give it a shot. I've been using Ubuntu ever since.

==== I'm also knows as... ====
Depending on where you chat with me, you may find me listed under a number of different names.

* hockeystatman   - I was an off ice official in the UHL for six seasons, with my primary duty for most of that time as statistician.
* PID Killa D     - If geeks are laughing about what their rap name would be, and you're a Unix admin by trade then something like this will come up.
* bushda          - Bush, David A.
* myrtlebeachbums - As I said above, I scuba dive and I live in the Myrtle Beach area. 'nuff said.

=== Former Level of Involvement ===

'''Member - Ubuntu News Team (currently on a leave of absence)''' <<BR>>
{*} At the time I took my leave of absence from the UWN team I was helping out with In The Blogosphere, In Other News, and In The Press <<BR>> <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter]]</nowiki> <<BR>> Prior to UWN 116 I was also responsible for the weekly Security and Updates listings.<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue101|Ubuntu Weekly News #101]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue103|Ubuntu Weekly News #103]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue104|Ubuntu Weekly News #104]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue105|Ubuntu Weekly News #105]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue106|Ubuntu Weekly News #106]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue107|Ubuntu Weekly News #107]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue108|Ubuntu Weekly News #108]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue109|Ubuntu Weekly News #109]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue110|Ubuntu Weekly News #110]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue111|Ubuntu Weekly News #111]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue112|Ubuntu Weekly News #112]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue113|Ubuntu Weekly News #113]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue114|Ubuntu Weekly News #114]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue115|Ubuntu Weekly News #115]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue116|Ubuntu Weekly News #116]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue119|Ubuntu Weekly News #119]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue120|Ubuntu Weekly News #120]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue122|Ubuntu Weekly News #122]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue123|Ubuntu Weekly News #123]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue124|Ubuntu Weekly News #124]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue125|Ubuntu Weekly News #125]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue126|Ubuntu Weekly News #126]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue127|Ubuntu Weekly News #127]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue128|Ubuntu Weekly News #128]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue129|Ubuntu Weekly News #129]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue131|Ubuntu Weekly News #131]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue132|Ubuntu Weekly News #132]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue133|Ubuntu Weekly News #133]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue134|Ubuntu Weekly News #134]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue135|Ubuntu Weekly News #135]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue136|Ubuntu Weekly News #136]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue137|Ubuntu Weekly News #137]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue138|Ubuntu Weekly News #138]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue139|Ubuntu Weekly News #139]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue140|Ubuntu Weekly News #140]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue141|Ubuntu Weekly News #141]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue142|Ubuntu Weekly News #142]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue143|Ubuntu Weekly News #143]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue144|Ubuntu Weekly News #144]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue145|Ubuntu Weekly News #145]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue146|Ubuntu Weekly News #146]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue147|Ubuntu Weekly News #147]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue148|Ubuntu Weekly News #148]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue149|Ubuntu Weekly News #149]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue150|Ubuntu Weekly News #150]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue151|Ubuntu Weekly News #151]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue152|Ubuntu Weekly News #152]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue153|Ubuntu Weekly News #153]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue154|Ubuntu Weekly News #154]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue155|Ubuntu Weekly News #155]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue156|Ubuntu Weekly News #156]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue157|Ubuntu Weekly News #157]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue158|Ubuntu Weekly News #158]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue159|Ubuntu Weekly News #159]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue160|Ubuntu Weekly News #160]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue161|Ubuntu Weekly News #161]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue162|Ubuntu Weekly News #162]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue163|Ubuntu Weekly News #163]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue164|Ubuntu Weekly News #164]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue165|Ubuntu Weekly News #165]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue166|Ubuntu Weekly News #166]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue167|Ubuntu Weekly News #167]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue168|Ubuntu Weekly News #168]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue169|Ubuntu Weekly News #169]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue170|Ubuntu Weekly News #170]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue171|Ubuntu Weekly News #171]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue172|Ubuntu Weekly News #172]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue173|Ubuntu Weekly News #173]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue174|Ubuntu Weekly News #174]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue175|Ubuntu Weekly News #175]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue176|Ubuntu Weekly News #176]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue177|Ubuntu Weekly News #177]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue178|Ubuntu Weekly News #178]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue179|Ubuntu Weekly News #179]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue180|Ubuntu Weekly News #180]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue181|Ubuntu Weekly News #181]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue182|Ubuntu Weekly News #182]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue183|Ubuntu Weekly News #183]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue184|Ubuntu Weekly News #184]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue185|Ubuntu Weekly News #185]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue186|Ubuntu Weekly News #186]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue187|Ubuntu Weekly News #187]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue188|Ubuntu Weekly News #188]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue189|Ubuntu Weekly News #189]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue190|Ubuntu Weekly News #190]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue191|Ubuntu Weekly News #191]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue192|Ubuntu Weekly News #192]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue193|Ubuntu Weekly News #193]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue194|Ubuntu Weekly News #194]]</nowiki>
| 
|}

'''Member - South Carolina Lo``Co Team''' <<BR>>
{*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-southcarolina|Ubuntu South Carolina]]</nowiki><<BR>>

'''Occasional assistance on Ubuntu Forums''' <<BR>>

Search the Ubuntu Forums for further information.

=== My Goals With Ubuntu ===

{*} To support and promote Ubuntu to the best of my abilities:
# To promote Ubuntu and make Ubuntu distributions available to those willing to try it.
# To supply support, encouragement and instruction to those who consider trying the distribution.
# To offer encouragement and advice on IRC and the Ubuntu Forums as I am able.

=== Testimonials ===
''' Here is your opportunity to say what you really think about me. '''

Dave has done great work for the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter. He started out doing the Stats, Updates & Security, and Meetings sections and has moved on to start writing summaries for the links chosen for the "In the Press" section. In addition, he is always willing to help fill in with anything needing to be done before publication, such as proof reading or checking links. He is also very interested in helping to get the South Carolina Lo``Co team more active and has asked my advice on how he can help to do that. I highly recommend Dave for Ubuntu Membership. JohnCrawford

Dave is an important contributor to the UWN. He helps out everywhere and does a great job week in and week out. - NickAli

I hadn't met Dave until he volunteered to work on the UWN, and even then it was only on IRC.  However, his work there has progressed past the basics that all beginners start with, and he took instruction very well, asking intelligent questions and getting the job done.  Now, he's gone beyond the basics, contributing "teasers" and doing fill-in work when someone happens to be absent.  He's shown himself to be a good worker with a good attitude, and I feel he would be a good Ubuntu member. - CraigAEddy (tyche)

Dave is an invaluable asset to <nowiki>[[SouthCarolinaTeam|LoCo Team South Carolina]]</nowiki>. He is one of our "core team members" and very active. He has great ideas, a lot of enthusiasm and jumps for opportunities. He also helps see things through and doesn't let anything, that I've seen, get him down. I really do not know what I would do without him on our team. - CraigHuffstetler (xq)

==== Support from a non-member friend ====

==== Log from February 29, 2009 Membership/RegionalBoards/Americas meeting in which I was approved for Ubuntu Membership ====
<pre>
(10:03:13 PM) pleia2: myrtlebeachbums: you're up!
(10:03:14 PM) tonyyarusso: ty
(10:03:20 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Thanks!
(10:03:55 PM) myrtlebeachbums: So how does this work? I was looking forward to going second so I didn't have to ask that. :)
(10:04:13 PM) nhandler: myrtlebeachbums: Tell everyone a little about yourself
(10:04:14 PM) tyche_: I'm here to support myrtlebeachbums.  w00t!!!!!
(10:04:21 PM) vorian: Tell us a bit about who you are and why you want to be a member.
(10:04:27 PM) MTecknology: myrtlebeachbums: one line short summary of why you should me approved
(10:05:19 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Okay. I've been a Linux user since '99, and an Ubuntu user for a number of years. I started work on Ubuntu Weekly News on issue 101, and I'm trying to do what I can to help get the SC Loco active. 
(10:05:32 PM) myrtlebeachbums: So far I've got them on board for a Jaunty release party. 
(10:05:33 PM) johnc4510-laptop: Dave-myrtlebeachbums has done great work on the UWN. He always jumps right in and helps on anything we need done. Consequently, he has learned most duties associated with the UWN. I highly recommend him for membership.
(10:06:07 PM) effie_jayx: myrtlebeachbums, I see some good testimonials up. congrats on the great work
(10:06:10 PM) eightyeight: johnc4510-laptop: thx
(10:06:12 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Thank you
(10:06:20 PM) boredandblogging: myrtlebeachbums works hard on the UWN every week, he rocks!
(10:06:22 PM) effie_jayx: myrtlebeachbums,  how do you see the work in you LoCo team?
(10:08:06 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Honestly I'm jealous of how tyche, johnc4510, kennymc0 and the others in the AZ Loco because they're so active. The SC loco is largely inactive, and I'm hoping that by trying to get a release party going that we can at least start to get the folks in the SC loco to start working together on things. We've also discussed some things like rebuilding donated systems for kids. All good ideas. I'm trying to help them get to execution on those. 
(10:08:10 PM) vorian: boredandblogging: i remember saying once upon a time that we would never see an issue 100 :)
(10:08:19 PM) johnc4510-laptop: lol
(10:08:23 PM) johnc4510-laptop: 130 this sunday
(10:08:37 PM) boredandblogging: and going strong because of guys like myrtlebeachbums
(10:08:43 PM) myrtlebeachbums: :)
(10:08:46 PM) vorian: so, more than half a years work on the UWN
(10:08:54 PM) pleia2: myrtlebeachbums: your line cut off at "help them get to execu"
(10:08:59 PM) atoponce: myrtlebeachbums: do you plan on keeping with the UWN, or branching into other areas of contribution?
(10:09:00 PM) tyche_: Yep, and he takes instruction very well
(10:09:09 PM) myrtlebeachbums: ...I'm trying to help them get to execution on those. 
(10:09:52 PM) pleia2: myrtlebeachbums: where do you see your future involvement effort?
(10:09:53 PM) myrtlebeachbums: I definitely intend to stick with UWN as long as they'll have me. As a non-programmer, it's a way for me to give back to the Ubuntu community. 
(10:10:13 PM) myrtlebeachbums: In what pleia2? With UWN, the SC Loco, or Ubuntu in general?
(10:10:18 PM) atoponce: myrtlebeachbums: how do you contribute to the UWN?
(10:10:36 PM) pleia2: myrtlebeachbums: Ubuntu in general :) what will you be doing with membership to help the community in the future
(10:11:23 PM) myrtlebeachbums: These days I do the write ups on the In The Press section, some times the In Other News section, and anywhere else that I'm asked. I also help proof read things, and I do try to suggest links to tyche and johnc4510 for inclusion in UWN. 
(10:11:51 PM) atoponce: i must say the uwn has been rocking lately
(10:12:00 PM) atoponce: i read every issue
(10:12:28 PM) myrtlebeachbums: I'd like to think that I will grow and can help out wherever I can. If I can be of help on other teams, I'd definitely be happy to do so. I've considered helping with the bug jams, but I have to jump in and get used to it. Cold feet for this non-programmer. 
(10:12:29 PM) atoponce: i'm fine to throw my support behing your membership. +1 from me
(10:12:39 PM) johnc4510-laptop: atoponce: thx
(10:12:41 PM) vorian: me too, +1 from me :)
(10:12:43 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Thank you atoponce
(10:12:54 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Thank you vorian
(10:12:54 PM) effie_jayx: +1 from me ... great wrk
(10:13:03 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Okay - thanks everyone :D
(10:13:03 PM) vorian: you earned it
(10:13:07 PM) Technoviking: +1
(10:13:10 PM) johnc4510-laptop: w00t
(10:13:12 PM) tyche_: congratulations, myrtlebeachbums
(10:13:17 PM) johnc4510-laptop: congrats to myrtlebeachbums
(10:13:20 PM) boredandblogging: wohoo!
(10:13:21 PM) johnc4510-laptop: :)
(10:13:22 PM) effie_jayx: great work myrtlebeachbums
(10:13:28 PM) scott_ev: woooohoooo
(10:13:37 PM) rhosigma: congrats :-)
(10:13:45 PM) panickedthumb: congrats myrtlebeachbums
(10:13:53 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Thanks guys for accepting as part of the UWN team, and for getting me to this point. I've really enjoyed my time in UWN, and look forward a many more issues. 
(10:13:58 PM) nhandler: Congrats myrtlebeachbums
(10:14:00 PM) itnet7: Congrats!
(10:14:29 PM) panickedthumb: "look forward to many more issues" be careful for what you wish for ;)
(10:14:36 PM) Jeff_Martin: w00t myrtlebeachbums!!
(10:14:38 PM) pleia2: myrtlebeachbums: so, future plans with Ubuntu? sticking with UWN? branching out?
(10:14:54 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Heh heh heh. I'm a firm believer in knowing ones limitation, and I feel I can always contribute to UWN. 
(10:15:03 PM) pleia2: excellent :)
(10:15:10 PM) myrtlebeachbums: I need to explore what's out there and see where else I can help. 
(10:15:10 PM) cody-somerville: congratz myrtlebeachbums
(10:15:27 PM) nhandler: myrtlebeachbums: If you like to write, you can check out the docs team
(10:15:53 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Other Ubuntu plans include finally taking my UCP exam. I've got the LPI level 1 cert done. Just need that last test. 
(10:16:06 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Thanks nhandler - I'll have to check into that. 
(10:16:25 PM) pleia2: +1 from me
(10:16:27 PM) pleia2: great work myrtlebeachbums
(10:16:33 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Thank you
(10:16:43 PM) vorian: congrats myrtlebeachbums, welcome aboard!
(10:17:18 PM) myrtlebeachbums: :) I'm proud to have made it here. Thanks again everyone. 
</pre>
