{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Mythbuntu Backup and Restore ===

As Mythbuntu has grown in the direction of making using, operating, and maintaing MythTV systems based on Ubuntu easier, one of the main compentes still lacking is the backup and restore feature. 

==== The Goal ====

A Fully functional plugin for Mythbuntu Control Centre to Preform Backup and Restores to external media ( CD/DVD, USB HDD, NFS, ect...). The Plugin should be configuable, work on schedules (cronjobs?), and easy to use.

==== Use Case ====

* Johnny Doe makes a mistake causing his system to become none function, Johnny is able to restore all system configuration files from his previous successful backup. 
* Johnny Doe unknowingly runs "rm -rf /*" on his system, Johnny Doe boots to a LiveCD of Mythbuntu to restore his system with Mythbuntu Control Centre Recovery System. 

==== Release Requirements ====

The first public release is tentatively scheduled to be included with the Mythbuntu 10.04 Release Cycle. This first release will need to have the basic functions of scheduling and running backup jobs configured by the user, track status of backups ( Fail/Succeed ), preform restores of backed up data, and restores of database backups.

===== Future Of Mythbuntu Backup and Restore =====

This is The place to put all your ideas and requests for Mythbuntu Backup and Restore. As this is a critical piece of software in any computing environment, we will do our best to make it as complete as possible but we would love your Input below, just add your idea to the table, please leave your username in the table so we can contact you for clarification if needed. Also, if you have a great idea and want to clearly document it, just add a sub page to this one and document it out (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mythbuntu/BackupRestore/YourIdea), then leave the link in the table under "Idea". Leave the Approver field empty, if your idea is accepted one of the developers will fill it in.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Idea
| Username
| Approver
|-
| On DB Restore, Ask if old Recordings have been restored, only restore DB entries if the have.
| NickFox
| 
|-
| While I hope that this is already the plan, this should interface with the excellent scripts built into MythTV from 0.22: http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Database_Backup_and_Restore.  To the extent that a new feature is added, it would be great to see this contributed back into those scripts.  I think that the focus of Mythbuntu should be to get MythTV-specific information into a file on the drive and back again, and leave backing up of files to generic backup tools (which I think should be included in Ubuntu etc. by default).  I accept that it would be nice, however, to have an option to "backup remote configuration" etc., as opposed to having to know and specify the files.
| LunaTick
| 
|-
| The ability to do either a full or partial restore. IE you may only want to restore the Mythtv DB or LIRC configuration.
| BradWombo
| 
|}
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMythTV]]</nowiki>
