{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


The intention of the page is to gather well-written answers to frequent questions from the Absolute Beginners Forum in an orderly fashion.

Suggestions are welcomed at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=379658|Feature Requests ]]</nowiki>

The Ubuntu Documentation Team has also looked into creating a FAQ section, you can see their initial list of Common Questions on <nowiki>[[http://philbull.googlepages.com/CommonQuestions-UbuntuForums.pdf|this pdf document]]</nowiki>.

Also see <nowiki>[[CommonQuestions]]</nowiki>.

== Forums FAQ ==

=== Installing Ubuntu ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu|Where to get Ubuntu?]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/alternative-download|alternative download]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[Installation-MinimalCD|Minimal installation ISO]]</nowiki>.
* Which version of Ubuntu should I use?
** Versions of Ubuntu are released every 6 months named by year.month and a "code name".
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases|Releases]]</nowiki>
** What does <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS|LTS]]</nowiki> mean?
** First you should know your <nowiki>[[SupportedArchitectures|architecture]]</nowiki> or (type of CPU).
* Will Ubuntu run on my computer?
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport|Hardware compatibility list]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[Installation-SystemRequirements|System requirements]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=368607|Should I use 64 bit?]]</nowiki>
* What is the difference between the Desktop / Server / and alternate CD's?
** The "Desktop" CD is a "live CD" and boots Ubuntu without changing your hard drive. Use the desktop CD to test your hardware. To install Ubuntu click on the "install" icon on the desktop.
** The "Alternate" CD is a install CD (no "live" desktop) and is used if the Desktop fails. In addition the Alternate CD allows "advanced" features such as a minimal install, LVM, RAID, and encryption.
** The "Server" CD is also a installation CD and will set up LAMP. The server installation comes with no GUI (Graphical Interface).
** The "Minimal" CD is a minimal command line installation. It installs the base operating system and package manager with no GUI. This CD is not recommended for users with slow internet connections.
** <nowiki>[[LiveCD|How to boot the live CD]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[BootFromCD|Trouble booting from CD?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Installation|How To Install Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[HowToRemoveWindows|How To Remove Windows]]</nowiki>

=== Configuration ===

* <nowiki>[[Accessibility| Accessibility Features aka Assistive Technologies]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RootSudo| Root - Sudo]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/internet/C/connect.html|Connecting to the Internet]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Video|Monitor Resolution]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Grub2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AutomaticallyMountPartitions|Mounting Partions]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FilePermissions|File Permissions]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DataRecovery|Recovering Data]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Wine]]</nowiki>

=== Multimedia ===
* <nowiki>[[Multimedia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MultimediaApplications]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats]]</nowiki>

=== Security ===
* <nowiki>[[Antivirus]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Firewall]]</nowiki>

=== Install additional software ===
''Any and all info that you might need on Installing Additional software unto Ubuntu can be found on this page.
* <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware|Installing Software in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[CheckInstall|Checking Software Installation]]</nowiki>

=== Server ===
''Any and all questions you may have can be found here at the following page.''
* <nowiki>[[ServerFaq|Server FAQ]]</nowiki>

=== Command line skills ===
* <nowiki>[[UsingTheTerminal|How to use the Terminal]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Beginners-BashScripting|Intro to Bash Scripting]]</nowiki>

=== Virtualization ===
* VMWare
* VirtualBox
** <nowiki>[[http://lifehacker.com/367714/run-windows-apps-seamlessly-inside-linux|Run Windows Apps Seamlessly Inside Linux]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryFaq
