{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Online banking in Belgium''' is the subject of this page. It is the source document for translations to Dutch and French. If you make a significant modification to this page, please add a warning on top of the <nowiki>[[NlBeOnlineBankieren|Dutch translation]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/belgique/banques_en_ligne|French adaptation]]</nowiki>.

=== List of banks in Belgium ===
http://www.abb-bvb.be/gen/nl/membres_affilies.asp

=== Perfectly working out of the box ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.argenta.be|Argenta]]</nowiki>: SSL + digipass, even works from text based browsers with some fiddling
* <nowiki>[[http://cph.be|CPH Banque]]</nowiki>: SSL + digipass. see https://www.cph.be/paiements/electronic-banking/cphnet.html
* <nowiki>[[http://www.deutschebank.be|Deutsche Bank]]</nowiki>: SSL plus code card
* <nowiki>[[http://dexia.be|Dexia]]</nowiki>: SSL plus key device (does not work in konqueror: "Could not connect to host directnet.dexia.be.", reason: kdelibs do not support the cipher that is used any more (they say it is a weak cipher))
* <nowiki>[[http://www.bnpparibasfortis.be|BNP Paribas Fortis]]</nowiki>: SSL plus key device
* <nowiki>[[http://www.rabobank.be|Rabobank]]</nowiki>: SSL plus key device
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ing.be|ING]]</nowiki>: SSL plus key device (Digipass, 15€).
** Since the Hardy release, the package ''libstdc++2.10-glibc2.2'' is not available anymore, install manually the gutsy version of this package
* <nowiki>[[https://www.kbc.be/|KBC]]</nowiki>: SSL plus key device
* <nowiki>[[http://www.crelan-online.be/index.html|Landbouwkrediet-Crédit Agricole]]</nowiki>: website is however not completely Firefox-friendly.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.dhbbank.be|DHB België]]</nowiki>: SSL plus key device
* <nowiki>[[http://www.recordbank.be|Recordbank]]</nowiki>: SSL plus digipass
* <nowiki>[[http://keytradebank.com|Keytradebank]]</nowiki>: SSL plus RSA securid, works with text based browsers
* <nowiki>[[http://www.citibank.be]]</nowiki>: SSL plus digipass works perfectly with firefox
* <nowiki>[[https://www.triodos-onlinebanking.be/|Triodos]]</nowiki>: SSL works perfectly with Firefox and Prism (digipass untested)

=== Probably working, but untested ===
* <nowiki>[[http://bpo.post.be|Bank van de Post]]</nowiki>: see http://bpo.post.be/site/nl/content/dailybanking/homebanking/bpobanking/index.html#N2
* <nowiki>[[http://www.bkcp.be|BKCP]]</nowiki>: see http://www.bkcp.be/bkcp/nl/info/assistance/securite.html
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ing.be|ING]]</nowiki>: without the Digipass, you need the "Security Module" installable as a .deb package. (see https://download.ing.be/software/homebank/offline/downloadLinux.asp?lang=EN). Should work on Ubuntu 6.06 and later. There is no version for AMD64.

=== Known not to be working ===
* <nowiki>[[http://axa.be|Axa]]</nowiki>: see http://www.axa.be/hb/nl/pc_requirements.html
** Axa, please fix your Microsoft Internet Explorer application. Make it a web application!
** UPDATE: Axa updated its online banking application, to make it compatible with Firefox on Windows and Mac. Linux is not officially supported, but the application is usable with Firefox on Linux; performance, however, seems to suffer, and the screen layout is not entirely correct.
* <nowiki>[[http://isabel.be|Isabel]]</nowiki>: corporate internet banking solution, bound to Microsoft Windows
* <nowiki>[[http://bankvanbreda.be|Bank Van Breda]]</nowiki>: maybe possible to bypass the browser check, but officially unsupported and actively checked, see https://www.vanbredaonline.be
* <nowiki>[[http://www.robeco.be/|Robeco]]</nowiki>: plain ssl should work perfectly (works with FF on win)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kbc.be|KBC]]</nowiki>: the KBC Online local client (not the web-interface!). Can't get it installed in Ubuntu, but there is a version for the 2.4 linux kernel. KBC does not offer support for linux.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kbc.be|KBC]]</nowiki>: the KBC Online local client definitely does work on Ubuntu. I've been using it for a while. As stupid as it seems, you have to copy a windows installation and run it under wine. They use an undocumented java hack that only works under the windows jdk (and is fixed in later versions, that's why they don't upgrade the jdk). Anyway, the online local application is being phased out. So it's not very important.

=== Unknown if working / testing needed ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.abnamro.be|ABN Amro]]</nowiki>: Not working according to their web page: http://www.abnamro.be/index.jsp?id=46&lang=nl. Their support claims that a cross-platform solution is currently being tested and will be deployed in October/November 2008.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.montepaschi.be|Banca Monte Paschi]]</nowiki>: probably working, see https://www.montepaschi.be/nl/01_particuliers/p_02_ger_04_paschiw.htm
* <nowiki>[[http://eural.be|Eural Spaarbank]]</nowiki>: ?
* <nowiki>[[http://www.vdk.be|VDK Spaarbank]]</nowiki>: ?, see http://www.vdk.be/elektron_bankieren/online_vdk/vragen.htm

----
CategoryBelgianDocumentation
