{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Current Solution ==
Matrox has recenently released updated Linux drivers for its range of graphics cards, which are available from the Matrox website. Download the drivers and execute the included shell script. On Ubuntu 9.04 (and likely all versions), this will fail to cofigure xorg.conf. Follow the very detailed instructions that come with the Matrox drivers and you will eventually get there.

At present it appears these drivers do not support Compiz out of the box. If anybody can clarify this, please edit this wiki.

== Deprecated Solution ==
'''Note: This driver is a BETA and will not work with AMD64 CPUs'''

# Before you start, install the linux-kernel-headers appropriate for your kernel.
# Download the modified binary driver from tuxx-home.at (http://tuxx-home.at/projects/mtx/)
# Install the kernel headers: <pre> 
sudo apt-get install linux-libc-dev</pre>
1. Execute the downloaded file: <pre>
sudo sh filenameyoudownloaded</pre>
# This will extract the files and then proceed to compile/install the driver.
# Manually change the driver in your xorg.conf file in /etc/X11.  You will need to locate the Driver entry for your previous graphics card and replace it with mtx.
# Backup libGL* from /usr/X11R6/lib: <pre>
sudo mkdir /usr/X11R6/lib/libGL.back
sudo mv /usr/X11R6/lib/libGL.so* /usr/X11R6/lib/libGL.back </pre>

----
CategoryHardware
