{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== VIA ===
VIA has recently began to work with the Open Source community by providing source code and binary drivers that are available for download from their website. The details are still sparse (May 27th, 2008) but the following lists some sources of information that may be useful:
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.openchrome.org/tikiwiki/tiki-index.php?page=The+Different+Unichrome+family+display+drivers|The Different Unichrome family display drivers]]</nowiki> - This is the wiki of the OpenChrome project and it describes the different drivers that are available for video cards with the VIA chipset. This will be your best bet for starter information
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=485646|HOW TO: Compiling and Installing the OpenChrome Graphical VIA Driver]]</nowiki> - This forum discusses using the Open Source 'OpenChrome' driver for VIA video cards.
* <nowiki>[[http://linux.via.com.tw/|VIA Linux Portal]]</nowiki> - Listed here is where you may downloaded the source code/binary drivers for VIA based graphics chipsets. As of May 2008, the forum is under construction.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=2|VIA Arena Drivers Section]]</nowiki> - The VIA Arena provides drivers for VIA based products (video cards, ethernet, IDE, RAID, SATA, Audio) that may be useful.
