{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



===== Sis =====

* Silicon Integrated Systems (SiS) and XGI Volari are supported by an open-source video driver available in Ubuntu and drivers from <nowiki>[[http://ncc-1701a.homelinux.net/~linux-sis/index.php?page=Downloads|SIS graphics on Linux]]</nowiki>. The sis-driver is already installed (at least in 10.04 and earlier). Je can download the sisimage and sis671 drivers. Check if these drivers are installed properly. There should be two files in /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/ per driver. Check the forum for problems (sis671 conflicts with Xorg in 10.04/Lucid hence: echo blacklist vga16fb > /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-vga16fb.conf . Check complete procedure!). Do not use proprietary drivers which are outdated.  More information is available <nowiki>[[http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml|from the developer]]</nowiki>.
 If you encounter problems:<<BR>>
  - Check <nowiki>[[http://www.winischhofer.net/linuxsispart1.shtml#12|Winischofers tables]]</nowiki> for supported SiS/XGI graphics chips and video bridges.<<BR>>
  - Also check what input is used by the monitor. If you have a choice between analog and digital input you may have to choose analog (see tables on the same link). For that you use a VGA plug (15 pin D-sub). It is found on most (if not all) machines including laptops is for primary VGA output, thus driven by CRT1. If it is not present you may need a DVI-VGA adapter or to remove some pins.<<BR>>
  - It may be necessary to configure /etc/X11/xorg.conf. If you do not have this file you can generate one with Xorg -configure while gdm is not active (see above). Do this before installing new drivers and check for modifications after installing new drivers. Especially the choice of the driver in the Section Device may be important. E.g.:<<BR>>
    Section "Device"<<BR>>
         Identifier "devname" # your device<<BR>>
         Driver "sis" # or sisimedia or sis671<<BR>>
This line may be added automatically during installation of the driver or it may be necessary to add this line after the generation of /etc/X11/xorg.conf<<BR>>
  - It may be necessary to lower Shared Memory in the BIOS (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-sis/+bug/291294|see bug 291294]]</nowiki>)<<BR>>
  - If needed, download the drivers sis671 from <nowiki>[[http://ajoliveira.com/ajoliveira/uk/software/xorg.php|Antonio J. de Oliveira]]</nowiki>. The two unpacked files have to be copied to  /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers , for instance by sudo nautilus. <<BR>>
  - When you switch monitors it may be necessary to completely remove (purge) one of the sis-drivers and/or to reconfigure xorg.conf.<<BR>>
  - Before you take any actions read "man sis", read this manual, search ubuntuforums and launchpad with "sis driver graphics OR video" and the name of your version of Ubuntu to check your method. Remember that tips may not be valid in your case because not all relevant configurations are mentioned.<<BR>>
