{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu 18.04 is the version of the Ubuntu operating system released in April, 2018. The development codename given to this release is "Bionic Beaver".

== Before You Start ==

* You can directly upgrade to Ubuntu 18.04 ("Bionic Beaver") from either Ubuntu 16.04 LTS ("Xenial Xerus") or Ubuntu 17.10 ("Artful Aardvark").
* Be sure that you have all updates applied to your current version of Ubuntu before you upgrade.
* Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver/ReleaseNotes|release notes for Ubuntu 18.04]]</nowiki>, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

If you have a version of Ubuntu other than 16.04 or 17.10, please see <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> for information on how to upgrade.

== Upgrade from 16.04 or 17.10 to 18.04 ==

=== Upgrading Ubuntu Desktops to 18.04 (Recommended) ===

You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.
# Run the '''update-manager''' application;
# In Update Manager, click the '''Settings...''' button, and enter your password to start the Software Sources application.
# Select the sub menu '''Updates''' from the Software Sources application.
# Confirm the "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version:" option is set to "For any new version" (or "For long-term support versions"), and change it if otherwise.
# Close the Software Sources application and return to Update Manager.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them, and press '''Check''' again after that is complete.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Kubuntu Desktops (Recommended) ===

Direct upgrades to Kubuntu 18.04 are supported from Kubuntu 16.04 or 17.10.

* <nowiki>[[BionicUpgrades-Kubuntu|Upgrade Kubuntu 16.04 or 17.10 to 18.04]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Servers (Recommended) ===

1. Install `update-manager-core` if it is not already installed: <pre>
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
</pre>
1. Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
do-release-upgrade
</pre>
1. Follow the on-screen instructions.

== See Also ==
* UpgradeNotes for all supported versions of Ubuntu

== Troubleshooting ==

See the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver/ReleaseNotes|release notes]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUpgrade
