{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== What is BitDefender ? ===

BitDefender is a program to check for Windows viruses and malware.  It can be run in the background or on demand when required.
Once installed it can be found under Applications - Systems Tools.
It can be used as an alternative to clamav/clamtk.

=== Installation ===

==== Ubuntu 11.04 and more recent ====
An updated method of installation for BitDefender using Ubuntu 11.04 is described here:
* http://connectwww.com/how-to-install-bitdefender-antivirus-scanner-for-unices-on-ubuntu-11-04/1214/

==== Ubuntu 10.04 LTS or using Gnome ====
Add the repository by going to System - Administration - Software Sources, click on the 'Other Software' (previously 'Third Party Software') tab. Now click on 'Add' and enter
<pre>
deb http://download.bitdefender.com/repos/deb/ bitdefender non-free
</pre>
Click on 'Close' and press 'Reload' when prompted.
Ignore the 'public key is not available' message (as we'll add it next) and press 'Close'. 
Now in Applications - Accessories - Terminal add the repository key:
<pre>
wget http://download.bitdefender.com/repos/deb/bd.key.asc
sudo apt-key add bd.key.asc
</pre>
Now update the apt cache with
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>
Install the graphical interface and command line program (2 files) with
<pre>
sudo apt-get install bitdefender-scanner-gui
</pre>
Once complete you now need to log out and log back in again. a menu shortcut will be generated (Applications - System Tools - BitDefender Scanner).

Before running the scanner it's probably best to install the latest virus/malware signatures by clicking on the 'Update' button. 

=== License ===

BitDefender comes with a standard 30 day free license, when first installed.  It is free for private and personal use - the license can be extended to one year by requesting a new license key from http://www.bitdefender.com/site/Products/ScannerLicense/
For all business use a paid for license is required. 

=== Useful Links ===
* http://connectwww.com/how-to-install-bitdefender-antivirus-scanner-for-unices-on-ubuntu-11-04/1214/
* http://www.bitdefender.com/site/Products/ScannerLicense/
* http://download.bitdefender.com/repos/
* http://www.bitdefender.com/
* http://unices.bitdefender.com/

----
CategorySecurity
