{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
This guide will help you to synchronize your contacts and calendar in Evolution with a Sony-Ericsson mobile phone over a bluetooth connection. This document was written for Ubuntu 7.10 and a Sony-Ericsson W810i but should work for other versions and models as well. Multisync is a stand-alone application to be used outside Evolution.

== Requirements ==
You need to have an established bluetooth connection between your mobile phone and your computer. Please see the help page for <nowiki>[[BluetoothSetup]]</nowiki> how to complete this. You should also have an existing working setup of Evolution before you start. 

== Installation ==
Enter the following command in a shell:<pre>
sudo aptitude install multisync libmultisync-plugin-all bluez-utils
</pre>

== Configuration ==
Start multisync from '''Applications -> Accessories -> Multisync''' or<pre>
multisync &
</pre>

* Create a new synchronization pair by pressing the '''New''' button.
* Set first plugin to '''IrMC Mobile Device'''
* Click '''Options''' button for "IrMC Mobile Device" and '''Search for units'''
* Select your mobile phone that should have been detected and click '''ok'''

* Set second plugin to '''Ximian Evolution 2'''
* Click '''Options''' button for "Ximian Evolution 2" and select which calendar, address book and task to sync and click '''ok'''
* Click '''ok'''

== Troubleshooting ==
If the the synchronization fails test different options for "IrMC Mobile Device"
* Check you have correct device address entered. 
* Compare device address outputed from the command "hcitool scan"
* Have a look at the tab "Bug workarounds".
* Try different preset settings from the drop-down list "set default options for"
* The settings seems to need to be saved (click ok) before altering settings in adjacent tabs sometimes.

== Tips ==
Play around with the settings to suit your needs, e.g. how often to sync etc.

----
CategoryBluetooth CategoryEmail
