{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Using Bluetooth to access the files on Mobile Phone, and with Headset for VoIP ==
Though these instructions are centered around Skype, they also apply to free, open and non-proprietary software phones like Wengophone, Ekiga, and others.

See http://wiki.ubuntu.com/SkypeEthics for more information.

=== Copying Files to and from Mobile Phone (K700i) ===
# Install bluez-utils, kdebluetooth (gnome bluetooth is not as far developed as kde I think), libopenobex, qobex, konqueror.
# Check /etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf: 
** security should be user.
** pairing should be multi.
** pin_helper should be /usr/bin/bluez-pin.
 1. restart bluez-utils 
  <pre>
/etc/init.d/bluez-utils restart}}}
  a.(Some people may need to do this step before running kbluetoothd.  I had to in order to successfully pair my phone to the Bluetooth dongle.)  From a command line run {{{
xhost +
</pre>
# Start kbluetoothd (it sometimes needs to be started twice on my machine until the icon shows up in the System Notifications Tray).
# Enable Bluetooth on your Device (Mobile Phone).
# If you click on the kbluetoothd Icon, konqueror will show up with "bluetooth:/" location, listing all BT Devices found.
# Click on your Device (sometimes only the MAC-Adress shows up), konqueror will list all supported Services, and start using the Service (for my Mobile, K700i its obex File Transfer, then I can browse my Mobile like a Disk Drive, copying what I want). Previous to that, my phone wants to pair with my PC, asking for a PIN. Just guess one (1234), after that a pop-up on the PC should occur, asking for the same PIN.
# You could also send Files from the Phone to your PC, then a pop-up will show up, asking you, if you wish to receive the file.

=== Using a Bluetooth Headset ===
==== Load Kernel Module for btsco: ====
** '''Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake)''' & '''Ubuntu 7.10 (Feisty Fawn)'''
 <pre>
sudo modprobe snd-bt-sco
</pre>
* '''Ubuntu 5.10 (Breezy Badger)'''
 <pre>
sudo modprobe btsco
</pre>

==== Check and load permanently: ====
 Check with:
 <pre>
dmesg
</pre>
 If it works correctly you can load it permanently by adding the appropriate module name to the end of  /etc/modules
 <pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/modules
</pre>

==== Install btsco ====
* '''Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake)''' & '''Ubuntu 7.10 (Feisty Fawn)'''
  Install package 'bluez-btsco' from Universe repository.
* '''Ubuntu 5.10 (Breezy Badger)'''
  Install the following missing (at least on my system) packages needed by the btsco Userspace driver. Easy, because you have apt-get or synaptic: 
** gcc.
** altgcc.
** libasound2-dev.
** libao-dev.
** libbluetooth1-dev.

 Download latest btsco from http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=116589, unzip to Desktop perhaps.

  Compile and install btsco
  <pre>
tar -xvzf btsco-0.42.tar.gz
cd btsco-0.42
./bootstrap
./configure
make
sudo make install
</pre>

==== Pair the headset with PC (as above with the Mobile) ====
Headset needs to be in pairing-mode (often this is accomplished by pressing a specific button for a long time, please see your headset manual).<<BR>>

* '''If you are using kbluetoothd'''

 Start kbluetoothd, click on it, in the opened konqueror window click on the headset (sometimes the MAC-Adress shows up).<<BR>>
 A popup should request the PIN for the Headset from you (mostly "0000" or "1234"). <<BR>>(For example Plantronics Voyager 510 and Scala 500 use a PIN of 0000, please see your headset manual).

* '''If you are using gnome-bluetooth'''

 Right-click on the Bluetooth Applet in your top panel and select Browse Device. Find your headset and click connect.<<BR>>
 A popup should request the PIN for the Headset from you (mostly "0000" or "1234"). <<BR>>(For example Plantronics Voyager 510 and Scala 500 use a PIN of 0000, please see your headset manual). You may get an obex error, you can ignore it and continue.

==== Start the btsco userspace program ====
 <pre>
btsco -v 00:00:00:00:00
</pre>
 replace the zeros with the MAC address of your headset (in KDE for example, right click on kbluetoothd icon, connection details. In GNOME, right click on bluetooth applet and select browse device).

 Verify its working:
 <pre>
aplay -B 1000000 -D plughw:Headset sound.wav 
</pre> (replace sound.wav with a Wave-File of your choice. A good choice would be /usr/share/sounds/login.wav .  An MP3 also works, but you will only hear strange noise :).

     Use XMMS: Options -> Preferences -> Audio I/O -> Output Plugin. Select ALSA -> configure, and select your Headset as Audiodevice. Restart XMMS and you should hear the music with the Headset.

     You can use the Volume Manager from gnome to adjust the volume, right click on the speaker in the tray -> Settings -> File -> Change Device.

     Everyday Use: If you load the kernel module automatically, you just need to execute "btsco -v your_headsets_mac_adress" - really easy for everyday use. You can optional start kbluetoothd to check Signalstreght etc.

=== Using Skype with Bluetooth Headset ===
Refer to <nowiki>[[Skype]]</nowiki> to install Skype.
* '''For Skype 1.4.0 and newer'''

 1. Launch Skype, go to Options, select Sound Devices. For Sound In and Sound Out (this is up to you) select the BT Headset entry.
 2. Call Skype Test Call to test your headset.

* '''Older versions of Skype'''

 1. Launch Skype, go to options Headset and select "/dev/dsp1" as device.
  a. For other software phones, just set the audio devices for input and output as /dev/dsp1, and don't experience the Skype bug in step 3.
 2. Try to call "echo123" to check it, when you just hear garbage, turn your headset off and on again, and start  <code> btsco -v 00:00:00:00:00 </code> again. This happens on my Machine every second time I try to use my Headset - also under WindowsXP!

----
CategoryBluetooth
