{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Telenor Sweden Bluetooth dial-up networking ==
This information complements the more generic BluetoothDialup guide.

The <code>etc/ppp/peers/telenor</code> file looks like this:
<pre>
   /dev/rfcomm0 115200
   defaultroute
   noauth
   connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/ppp/chat-gprs"
   debug
   updetach
   usepeerdns
</pre>

The corresponding <code>/etc/ppp/chat-gprs</code> file is as below:
<pre>
   TIMEOUT 35
   ECHO    ON
   ABORT   '\nBUSY\r'
   ABORT   '\nERROR\r'
   ABORT   '\nNO ANSWER\r'
   ABORT   '\nNO CARRIER\r'
   ABORT   '\nNO DIALTONE\r'
   ABORT   '\nRINGING\r\n\r\nRINGING\r'
   ''      \rAT
   OK      'AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","internet.telenor.se"'
   OK      ATD*99#
   CONNECT ""
</pre>

The field __AT+CGDCONT=1__ is the number of your internet connection number set in your mobile phone. View the settings for your internet setup in your mobile phone. The value might be something else depending on phone setup.

If the setting __ATD*99#__ isn't working try the values __*99***2#__ or __99***3#__. These values are to be found from the support page of Telenor Sweden, http://www.telenor.se/224.jsp

----
CategoryBluetooth
