{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Discussion of this wiki can be found <nowiki>[[ http:--ubuntuforums.org-showthread.php?t=2030238 |here ]]</nowiki>
== Introduction ==

If you have damaged the boot sector of one of your partitions (e.g. by installing GRUB in it by mistake), you may have troubles. For example, if it is a Windows partition, you will not be able to boot into Windows any more.

Remark: if you have this problem, <nowiki>[[Boot-Repair]]</nowiki> should automatically warn and tell you the name (eg '''sda2''') of the broken partition.

Here is how to repair it:

== Via an Ubuntu disc ==
=== Step 1 - Boot on a liveCD or liveUSB ===

Boot your computer on a Ubuntu live-CD or live-USB, then choose "Try Ubuntu".

=== Step 2 - Install TestDisk in the live-session ===

Once in the Ubuntu live session, install <nowiki>[[TestDisk]]</nowiki> this way:

* Connect internet
* Open the Software Center, in the top bar click Edit -> Software Sources -> enable the Universe repository
* Open a terminal (Ctrl+Alt+T) and type :

<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>
<pre>
sudo apt-get install -y testdisk && sudo testdisk
</pre>

=== Step 3 - Use TestDisk ===

* Via the arrows and the Enter key, go to the [No log] menu,
* then select the disk where the broken partition is,
* then select [Proceed],
* then choose the type of partition (generally [Intel]),
* then[Advanced],
* then select the broken partition with [Boot], it will display something like :

<pre>
 Boot sector
 Status: Bad

 Backup boot sector
 Status: OK

 Sectors are not identical.

 A valid NTFS Boot sector must be present in order to access
 any data; even if the partition is not bootable.

 [  List  ]  [Backup BS]  [Rebuild BS]  [  Dump  ]
</pre>

7. Check that you have "Status ok" below "Backup boot sector"

8. select [Backup BS].

Done

== Via a Windows disc ==

This method is only able to fix the bootsector of a Windows partition.

1. Get a Windows recovery disk, as explained on <nowiki>[[RestoreUbuntu-XP-Vista-7Bootloader|this page]]</nowiki>

2. Boot on it, and use the 'fixboot' command (not the 'fixmbr' one). This should fix the bootsector of Windows.

== External Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk|Official website of TestDisk]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2030238|Discussion thread on ubuntuforums for any question/comment about this tutorial]]</nowiki>. (this is not a thread for support, '''if you need help''' please create your new own thread <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/newthread.php?do=newthread&f=333|here]]</nowiki>)
