{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


If you're using the excellent wiki <nowiki>[[Installation-OldWorldMacs]]</nowiki>
but don't know how to use miBoot or BootX, this page will hopefully
give
you ample instructions.&nbsp; Please be aware that BootX is only needed
for Old World Macs and requires that a functional Mac OS (not OS X)
system is installed on the first partition of the hard drive.

=== Install BootX ===
First download and install BootX from http://penguinppc.org/~benh/BootX_1.2.2.sit.
Copy the "Linux Kernels" folder to your System Folder, the BootX
extension to your Extensions folder, and the BootX App to your Control
Panels folder (BootX App can be copied anywhere, but this is a good
place to put it).

=== Configure BootX ===
You then need to copy the Linux kernel from the Ubuntu
installation CD to the Linux Kernels folder in your System
folder.&nbsp; The kernel is located at install:powerpc:vmlinux.&nbsp;
Now open BootX App. The kernel selected by default should be the
one you copied (vmlinux) but you'll need to specify a RAM disk
(initrd.gz) so select Options... and check "Use Specified RAM
Disk". If you're not prompted to browse to a RAM disk image then
hit the choose button and browse to the initrd.gz file at
install:powerpc on the install cd.

=== Install Ubuntu ===
You can now press the Linux button to boot into the
installation system and follow the <nowiki>[[Installation-OldWorldMacs]]</nowiki> instructions from
there.&nbsp; Please be aware that you will have to copy the Linux
kernel and RAM disk image from /boot on your new Ubuntu installation to
the "Linux Kernels" folder in the Macintosh System Folder before you
can boot into the newly installed Ubuntu system.

For more details on using BootX go to http://penguinppc.org/bootloaders/bootx/.

----
CategoryMac
