{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Init scripts are small shell programs that usually control services, also known as daemons.

The /etc/init.d directory contains the scripts executed by init at boot time and when the init state.

=== Rcconf ===

Rcconf allows you to control which services are started when the system boots up or reboots. It displays a menu of all the services which could be started at boot. The ones that are configured to do so are marked and you can toggle individual services on and off.This tool configures system services in connection with system runlevels. It turns on/off services using the scripts in /etc/init.d/. Rcconf works with System-V style runlevel configuration. It is a TUI(Text User Interface) frontend to the update-rc.d command.

Rcconf gets a list of services from /etc/init.d and looks in the /etc/rc?.d directories to determine whether each service is on or off.

If the number(NN of /etc/rc?.d/NNname) is not 20(default), rcconf saves the service name and the number in /var/lib/rcconf/services so as to be able to restore the service to its original configuration.

Install rcconf :

sudo apt-get install rcconf

This will complete the installation now if you want to run this application use the following command

rcconf

In the screen, you can select which services you want to run at boot time.

=== External links ===
* <nowiki>[[http://olympus.het.brown.edu/cgi-bin/man/man2html?rcconf+8|RCCONF  man page]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryBootAndPartition
