{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

# changed from ContentCleanup Category

== Introduction ==

Bricscad is a CAD package developed by Bricsys. It was built using the IntelliCAD engine and re-write in 2010. It was designed for Windows and at september 2010, Bricsys announced that Bricscad for Linux is available (previous versions worked under WINE)
It's one of the first CAD packages which runs natively on Linux.

Bricscad read and writes the DWG file format made popular by the AutoCAD package.

Bricscad implements the AutoLISP scripting language.

Bricscad it's a professional and commercial CAD software.

== Installation ==
1. Download Bricscad (Linux) from http://www.bricsys.com (requires email address)
2. Double click the downloaded file (.DEB) and follow instructions (you will be asked for your authorization number which you should receive in an email from Bricsys, or test free for 30 days).

== External links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bricscad|Bricscad article at Wikipedia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison of CAD software at Wikipedia|Comparison of CAD software at Wikipedia]]</nowiki> includes CAD applications for Linux

----
* <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>
