{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''Частично преведено на български!!!'''

'''Partially translated to bulgarian!!!'''

Тази страница описва как да се инсталират различни peer-2-peer програми. Всичко намиращо се в сиви кутии се изпълнява като команда в конзолата.

=== Azureus - bit torrent клиент ===

Първо имате нужда от Java. Ако нямате инсталирана, проверете [...]

След като е инсталирана:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install azureus
</pre>

Опреснете gnome-panel като въведете:
<pre>
killall gnome-panel
</pre>
Иконата на Azureus ще се появи в Програми -> Интернет (Applications -> Internet).

=== LimeWire - gnutella network client ===

First, you need Java. If you dont have Java installed, check the JavaSetup page.

1. Get the package:
<pre>
wget -c http://frankandjacq.com/ubuntuguide/LimeWireOther.zip
</pre>
1.#2 Extract the package:
<pre>
sudo unzip -u LimeWireOther.zip -d /opt/
</pre>
1.#3 Create a launcher in the /usr/bin directory
<pre>
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/runLime.sh
</pre>
1.#4 Paste the following lines in the new document:
<pre>
cd /opt/LimeWire/
./runLime.sh
</pre>
and save the file.

1.#5 Make the launcher executable:
<pre>
sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/runLime.sh
</pre>

Type 'runLime.sh' to execute.

=== DC++ - Direct Connect ===

First, you need install the dependencies:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libatk1.0-0 libbz2-1.0 libc6 libgcc1 libglade2-0 libglib2.0-0 libgtk2.0-0 libpango1.0-0 libstdc++6 libxml2 zlib1g
</pre>

Download the package:
<pre>
wget http://newstuff.orcon.net.nz/ubuntu/dcpp/dcpp_0.0.20050809cvs-1~mird_i386.deb
</pre>

Install the package:
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i dcpp_0.0.20050809cvs-1~mird_i386.deb
</pre>

Refresh the gnome-panel by typing:
<pre>
killall gnome-panel
</pre>
The DC++ icon will show up in the Applications -> Internet menu.

Problems? Check out this thread on the Ubuntu forums:
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=42084

=== Amule - eMule client ===
First, add extra repositories. If you dont know how, go to AddingRepositoriesHowto.

Install the client: 
<pre>
sudo apt-get install amule
</pre>

Refresh the gnome-panel by typing: 
<pre>
killall gnome-panel
</pre>
The Amule icon will show up in the Applications -> Internet menu.
----
The information on this page originates from www.ubuntuguide.org and the threads linked.
