{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Name      :''' Maarten Bezemer
* '''Location  :''' Enschede, Netherlands
* '''OS        :''' Kubuntu
* '''Launchpad :''' https://launchpad.net/~maarten-bezemer
* '''IRC       :''' ''veger'' @ irc.freenode.net

== About me ==
My name is Maarten Bezemer, I am a graduated MSc (Electrical Engineering) and currently I am a PhD candidate at the University of Twente.

I am interested to do something back for the (K)ubuntu community.
To get more familiar with things I joined the BugSquad, but I would like to help fixing bugs at some point.
During (and even more next to) my education I picked up some programming experience in C/C++, Bash, Makefile, Java, Python, some web based stuff (!JavaScript, PHP, RoR), ... (and the list goes on). I like to learn about new languages hence the long list.

Currently I am a developer for <nowiki>[[http://www.ganttproject.biz/|GanttProject]]</nowiki> so expect a new package in the repositories at some time ... ;)

== Extra information for my BugSquad mentor application ==

I do not exactly know on what areas to help out yet.
At the moment I would pick ''kde'' or ''desktop'' I suppose.

Availability (mostly):
* Weekdays (except Tuesdays) from 18:00 - 22:00 (UTC)
* Weekends it would be something like 09:00 - 22:00 (UTC).
My own timezone is GMT +1 hours (or +2 hours during daylight saving time)
