{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/vendor-management-tools
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Customer request that we offer better support for main brand server OEM such as Dell, IBM and HP.   Part of the problem is to integrate the vendor's management tools so that Ubuntu server can be managed from the central management console.  

Note: This is not a simple port/maintain problem as it is likely to require direct involvement with the vendors before we are able to move forward on this. 

=== Release Note ===

Inclusion of [Dell|HP|IBM] agents allows user to fully manage their Ubuntu based servers using the vendors management tools. 

=== Rationale ===

In addition to validate/certify hardware, medium to large size IBM, Dell or HP customers often implement the vendore management tool to supervise their servers.  For high level supervision, this requires tight integration with the OS.  At this time Novell & RedHat are the only distros officially supported for these vendors supervision tools.

=== Use Cases ===

Bob has a datacenter which is allmost exclusively composed of [Dell|IBM|HP] machine.  He has implemented [Vendor] management tool to supervise them but complains that he cannot do it with servers running Ubuntu.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== Vendors (Priority) ====

* System76 (1)
** HP OpenView
** Altiris
* IBM (1)
** Director/Tivoli
* Dell (1)
** OpenManage
* Intel (1)
** IMPI
** AMT -> WSMAN (open source)
* AMD (1)
** ???
* HP (1)
** OpenView
** Insight Manager
* SUN (1)
** Sun Management Center
* SuperMicro (2)
** Intelligent Management
* Fujitsu Siemens (2)
** Server View
* Gigabyre (3)
** Server MAnagement
* Hitachi (3)
** AMPHUS

----
CategorySpec
