{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

** '''26 - Install Fest en la Universidad Simón Bolívar, Caracas:''' Stand informativo, demos, instalaciones, soporte técnico, instalaciones en PenDrives, CD's, material POP.  Nelson Delgado, Gustavo Delgado, Jaime Escobar, Jean Piero lombardo y SantiagoZarate.
** '''July, 26 - Install Fest at Simon Bolivar University, Caracas:''' Information Booth, demos, installation, technical support, facilities in pen drives, CDs, POP material. Nelson Delgado, Gustavo Delgado, Jaime Escobar, Jean Piero Lombard SantiagoZarate. 

** '''26 y 27 - junio  <nowiki>[[http://www.cnsl.org.ve/ | 5CNSL]]</nowiki> San Felipe:''' presencia de stand donde se estuvo dando información, entregando discos y dando material POP (en físico y lógico), Representantes: NathalieColina, Cesar Bermudez...
** '''June, 26 and 27 - 5CNSL San Felipe:''' the presence of stand where he was giving information, providing records and providing POP material (in physical and logical). Representatives: NathalieColina, Cesar Bermudez...

** '''03 y 04 - <nowiki>[[http://www.cnsl.org.ve/ | 5CNSL]]</nowiki> Guadsgualito:'''no hubo stand como tal pero estuvimos dando información, entregando discos y dando material POP (en lógico). Representantes: NathalieColina, Santiago Zárate
** '''03 and 04 -<nowiki>[[http://www.cnsl.org.ve/ | 5CNSL]]</nowiki> Guadsgualito:''' no stand as such but we were giving information, providing records and making POP material (in logic). Representatives: NathalieColina, SantiagoZarate
