{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[CesarSevilla|César Sevilla]]</nowiki>Raised the possibility of dividing the 635 original CDs to every contact in quantities of 62 Regional Ubuntu, Kubuntu and 12 Server 12. Regional Contacts who have already received earlier CDs are deducted from the amount approved. Idea Approved by the board.

El día 15/01/2011 took place in the city of Maracaibo when done in Ubuntu Kepën facilities, such activity was attended by 23 people the results that this activity were:

* Delivered 30 CD of Ubuntu, Ubuntu Server 6 and 6 (K) Ubuntu.
** There was San Francisco assistant, and of course Cabimas Maracaibo.
** They were invited attendees to participate all the services we currently offer (mailing list, IRC channel, Website, Forum etc.).
** It agreed with the wizard make installation a Day in a university town located in San Francisco, the date for implementation will be defined in the coming weeks.
** It was agreed that Ubuntu's Day at the public library in the state.
** It was agreed to link the Ubuntu community with UNEFA Venezuela - Maracaibo to exchanges of knowledge among students, teachers and managers of the home studio.

'''Ubuntu-Carabobo''' Ubuntu Hour held this Saturday 22/01 for more information visit http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/638/detail/

For more information on the minutes of January visit 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/MinutasReuniones/20110119
