{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''13 de Diciembre de 2008:'''  En la Biblioteca Pública Alcides Losada del Tocuyo estado Lara se dictó la ponencia "EL PROFESIONAL DE SISTEMAS E INFORMÁTICA COMO AGENTE INTEGRADOR DE LAS TIC EN EL PROCESO DE TRANSFORMACIÓN DEL PAÍS", a cargo del prof. ManuelMujica, esto en el marco del CDLXIII de la fundación del Tocuyo. Al evento asistieron mas de 90 estudiantes de la misión Sucre de la Aldea Universitaria “Los luchadores de siempre”.  Este evento estuvo organizado por los estudiantes de la sección 503 y 602 de Informática y Sistemas y el equipo de Ubuntu-ve. La conferencia abordo los tópicos del perfil del estudiantes en TIC, Como gerenciar las TIC, El satélite Simón Bolívar, El Software Libre y su impacto en la educación, en donde se abordó de una manera clara la utilización de esta herramienta como elemento transformador de la sociedad.En este evento se entregó CD de Ubuntu Desktop y Server,también se entregaron trípticos de Ubuntu-ve, así como afiches del satélite Simón Bolívar.

* '''December 13, 2008:'''  Public Library “Alcides Losada” of El Tocuyo, Lara state, the speech “THE PROFESSIONAL OF COMPUTER SCIENCES AND SYSTEMS AS INTEGRATOR AGENT OF INFORMATION AND COMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES (ICT) IN THE PROCESS OF TRANSFORMATION OF THE COUNTRY” was performed by the prof. ManuelMujica, in the year  CDLXIII of establishment of this city. The event was attended by more than 90 students from the Mission Sucre and University Village “Los lucadores de siempre”. This event was organized by students of Section 503 and 602 of Computer Sciences and Systems and Ubuntu-ve team. The conference addressed the topics of the profile of students in ICT, how to manage ICT, Simon Bolivar Satellite, Free Software and its impact on education, which addressed in a clear manner using this tool as a transformative element of society. In this event, we gave Ubuntu Desktop and Server CDs, also gave the Ubuntu-ve triptychs and posters from the Simon Bolivar satellite.
