{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* held a meeting to discuss Issues with event participation at the National Free Software Summit (Congreso Nacional de Software Libre).
** Decided not to participate directly to avoid conflict with organizers with regards ethical questioning.

* Organized first Ubuntu Hour, a recurring event every 3rd saturday. You can check <nowiki>[[ http:--effiejayx.wordpress.com-2010-04-18-ubuntu-hour-in-maracaibo-2- | effie-jayx's blog post]]</nowiki>
 
* Team packaged Venezuelan twitter Client <nowiki>[[ http:--www.turpial.org.ve | TURPIAL]]</nowiki> and enabled PPA for it.

* Organizing a Release Party in Maracaibo, <nowiki>[[ http:--effiejayx.wordpress.com-2010-04-18-fiesta-lucida-en-santa-lucia- | Fiesta Lucida in Santa Lucia ]]</nowiki>

* Held the first regular meeting in a while, meeting covered, design for the team, redesign for the website, Colaboration for FLISOL and more, you can check <nowiki>[[ VenezuelaTeam-MinutasReuniones-20100421 | minutes here.]]</nowiki>

* Participating in FLISOL nation wide, for info check <nowiki>[[http://www.flisol.org.ve]]</nowiki>, pictures <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/koshrf/sets/72157623928585524/ | Ricardo Fernandez's Set]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/superubuntu/sets/72157623931138676/ | Eduar Lucena's Set]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/voices.in/FLISOL2010CaracasVenezuela# | Efrain Valles's Set]]</nowiki>     <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/emerling2001/Flisol2010# |David Rondon's Set]]</nowiki>

 We send a representative from our Team to the Country Cuba; Juan Carlos Navarro (of Regional Team Carabobo).<nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/emerling2001/FLISOLCuba# |Pictures]]</nowiki>
