{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== UBUNTU-VE OFFICIAL LoCo Team ==

=== Log from Ubuntu Community Council Meeting - Feb 13, 2007 8:00 am VET ===

----

'''<effie_jayx>''' Me

'''<Seveas>''' Rolando Blanco?

'''* posingaspopular (n=home@adsl-68-255-99-171.dsl.chcgil.ameritech.net) ha entrado en #ubuntu-meeting'''

'''<effie_jayx>''' here is here

'''<rolando-ve>''' Hi

'''<sabdfl>''' Seveas: i think this choice was the simplest, feel free to talk with kiko and salgado about other ideas

'''<sabdfl>''' less spammy ones

'''* dindatx es ahora conocido como dinda'''

'''* amachu se ha marchado (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))'''

'''4<Seveas>''' hi rolando-ve and effie_jayx

'''<mako>''' ok

'''<effie_jayx>''' hi all
 
'''<rolando-ve>''' Hi Seveas! hi all

'''<effie_jayx>''' Seveas,  hi :D

'''<Seveas>''' do you have an english wikipage/websote about ubuntu-ve?

'''<Seveas>''' I'm afraidI don't speak spanish

'''<effie_jayx>''' Seveas,  our proposal is in english

'''<Seveas>''' (and please ignore my bad spelling, I'm feeling a bit ill)

'''4<Seveas>''' effie_jayx, where is it? The CC agenda links to a spanish page

'''<effie_jayx>''' Seveas,  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/ApprovalApplication

'''<effie_jayx>''' sorry about that

'''* C3s4r (n=Shark@200-71-186-101.genericrev.telcel.net.ve) ha entrado en #ubuntu-meeting'''

'''<elkbuntu>''' C3s4r, is also a member of ubuntu-ve. hola C3s4r :)

'''4<Seveas>''' effie_jayx, how's the collaboration with other locoteams going?

'''<effie_jayx>''' Seveas,  well ... it has been interesting

'''<C3s4r>''' hi elkbuntu :D

'''<effie_jayx>''' this past few months we have helped them get stablished... but 

'''<effie_jayx>''' they are also workigin in gathering more people to use the services... 

'''4<sabdfl>''' rolando-ve, effie_jayx: have things settled down with quidam now?

''' sabdfl Sanne Sapote Seeker` Seveas sfllaw ShankarGanesh shawarma sid simira siretart sivang sky_walkie sladen slomo smurf stgraber stranger synacktion '''

'''<sabdfl>''' i had mail fromhimrecently asking if the changes had been made

'''<sabdfl>''' they had, but he couldn't see that on the relevant lp page

'''<effie_jayx>''' sabdfl,  we have.. and we are working on the three admins to give direction to the team

'''<mako>''' that's all good to hear

'''* ShankarGanesh_ (n=chatzill@59.92.117.190) ha entrado en #ubuntu-meeting'''

''' Sanne Sapote Seeker` Seveas ShankarGanesh ShankarGanesh_ '''

'''<effie_jayx>''' Seveas,  in teams like ubuntu-do ... the main problem is they have power failiures 

'''<effie_jayx>''' very frequntly... they don't stay online for long

'''<sabdfl>''' i'm glad those issues straightened out so nicely, well done

'''* mako nods to sabdfl enthusiastically'''

'''<effie_jayx>''' sabdfl,  quidam is a great friend of a friend of mine.. so no harm there

'''<mako>''' the ve team looks large and active from what i can see, you should be proud :)

'''<effie_jayx>''' sabdfl, here is really keen to see team he started go somewhere...

'''<effie_jayx>''' mako,  it has been the collective spirit of various LUGs in my country

'''<Seveas>''' mako, indeed, the -ve team has been a good example to other latin american teams

'''<mako>''' awesome :)

'''* MatthewV se ha marchado ("Leaving")'''

'''* elkbuntu agrees with Seveas.'''

'''<effie_jayx>''' the key has been to be open to freedom and brotherhood

'''<sabdfl>''' ok, i'm quite happy with the state of this loco team

'''<sabdfl>''' they've handled one change of leadership well, which is a good sign

'''<effie_jayx>''' something rolando has always tried to put in  everything

'''<sabdfl>''' and are organised with a clear plan

'''* ntovar (n=ntovar@200.109.105.242) ha entrado en #ubuntu-meeting'''

'''<sabdfl>''' so, +1 from me

'''* ShankarGanesh__ (n=chatzill@59.92.101.92) ha entrado en #ubuntu-meeting'''

'''* mips (n=mips@dsl-244-91-41.telkomadsl.co.za) ha entrado en #ubuntu-meeting'''

'''<elmo>''' +1

'''<mako>''' +1 form me as well

'''4<Seveas>''' Wel done rolando-ve, effie_jayx, C3s4r and others!

'''<elkbuntu>''' congrats venezuela :)

'''<Seveas>''' Congratulations!

'''<effie_jayx>''' :D

'''<rolando-ve>''' :D

'''* effie_jayx high five's rolando-ve''' 

'''<jatem>''' :D

'''<Seveas>''' sabdfl now has the stage for an extra item on the agenda

'''<Sapote>''' :D

'''<amach1>''' congrats from Tamil Team also

'''<effie_jayx>''' Thanks cc for the trust you put in the team

'''<sabdfl>''' ok, i've taken too long to get this sorted, my apologies to cjwatson and others who have been waiting patiently!

'''4<jenda>''' Congrats effie_jayx and others ;)

'''<sabdfl>''' it's time to nominate new folks to the CC

'''<effie_jayx>''' this is not a goal... this is the continuation of the challenge

'''<tsmithe>''' well done!

'''<ShankarGanesh__>''' :)

'''<jatem>''' ;)
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
