{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''26 de Abril de 2008:''' Los miembros de Ubuntu-ve participaron en el Flisol (Barquisimeto). Se realizó en las instalaciones del “Auditorium del Hospital Central Universitario Dr. Antonio María Pineda, Barquisimeto-Estado Lara”. El Festival Latinoamericano de Instalación de Software Libre (FLISoL) es el evento de difusión de Software Libre más grande en Latinoamérica. Se realiza desde el año 2005 y su principal objetivo es promover el uso del software libre, dando a conocer al público en general su filosofía, alcances, avances y desarrollo. Para tal fin, las diversas comunidades locales de software libre (en cada país, en cada ciudad/localidad), organizan simultáneamente eventos en los que se instala, de manera gratuita y totalmente legal, software libre en las computadoras que llevan los asistentes. Además, en forma paralela, se ofrecen charlas, ponencias y talleres, sobre temáticas locales, nacionales y latinoamericanas en torno al Software Libre, en toda su gama de expresiones: artística, académica, empresarial y social. Al evento asistieron más de 140 personas, (sobrepasando la capacidad de la localidad) con inquietudes y expectativas que se evidenció en la participación en las charlas y en la cantidad de equipos que se instalaron las distintas distribuciones GNU/Linux y en particular el equipo de Ubuntu-ve instalando los diferentes sabores de la distro favorita. En este evento se entregó CD de Ubuntu Desktop y Server, también se entregaron trípticos  y etiquetas de Ubuntu-ve.

* '''April 26, 2008:''' Members of Ubuntu-ve participated in the Flisol (Barquisimeto). Was conducted on the premises of "Auditorium University Central Hospital Dr. Antonio María Pineda, Barquisimeto, Lara State." The Latin American Festival of Installation of Free Software (FLISoL) is the event broadcast largest Free Software in Latin America. Is performed since 2005 and its main objective is to promote the use of free software, giving the general public know his philosophy, scope, progress and development. To this end, the various communities of free software (in each country in each city / locality), simultaneously organized events in which it is installed, free of charge and completely legal, free software on computers that have the audience. Furthermore, in parallel, give talks, lectures and workshops on topics local, national and Latin America about Free Software in all its range of expression: artistic, academic, business and social. The event was attended by over 140 people (exceeding the capacity of the town) with concerns and expectations evidenced by participation in the talks and the amount of equipment that were installed the various GNU / Linux and in particular the team Ubuntu-ve installing the different flavors of favorite distro. The event gave Ubuntu CD Desktop and Server, also delivered leaflets and labels Ubuntu-ve.
