{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''3 de febrero de 2008:''' Ubuntu-ve tuvo su reunión por IRC para discutir los próximos eventos a participar y la creación de sub-equipos el numero de asistentes fue de 30 personas. en lineas generales la reunión fue bastante positiva mucha participación y lo mas importante ganas de colaborar. Próxima reunión 17 de febrero.
* '''February 3, 2008:''' Ubuntu-ve had its meeting on IRC to discuss upcoming events to participate and create sub-teams the number of participants was 30 people. Overall, the meeting was quite positive a lot of participation and most importantly want to help. Next meeting February 17.

* '''6 de febrero de 2008:''' El equipo de Ubuntu-ve inicio los trabajos de recolección de todos los trabajos realizados para promover el equipo. Se creó VenezuelaTeam/MaterialPOP para la mejor recolección y distribución de material POP. 
* '''February 6, 2008:''' The Ubuntu-ve team began work on collecting all the work to promote the team. It was created VenezuelaTeam/MaterialPOP for better collection and distribution of POP material.

* '''9 de febrero de 2008:''' Los miembros de Ubuntu-ve Caracas se han reunido en un encuentro para compartir una tarde y discutir cosas Ubuntu. La reunión tomo lugar en las oficinas de MSC, un reconocido proveedor de soluciones Ubuntu a nivel nacional.
* '''February 9, 2008:''' Members of Ubuntu-ve met in Caracas have an afternoon meeting to share and discuss things Ubuntu. The meeting took place at the offices of MSC, a leading provider of Ubuntu nationally.

* '''17 de febrero de 2008:''' Ubuntu-ve sostuvo una reunión para discutir los distintos aspectos relacionados con la participación en eventos. Discusión sobre la licencia del Material de difusión. y definición de equipos regionales. la reunión duró una hora y tiene pautado una discusión mas a fondo el domingo 24 de febrero.
* '''February 17, 2008:''' Ubuntu-ve held a meeting to discuss various aspects of participation in events. Discussion of the material broadcast license. and definition of regional teams. The meeting lasted an hour and has scheduled a more thorough discussion on Sunday February 24.
