{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* On 22/01/11 the Hour was held in Valencia, Carabobo Ubuntu, took advantage of the opportunity to exchange ideas about the world of SL, was handed to each participant a CD of Ubuntu 10.10 and other key issues that helped know each team ubuntu-ve.

* On 03/02/11 the Ubuntu community-ve been invited to attend a small event held in Maturin IUTIRLA installation, this time we have the presence of the Regional Contact Persaud in which Samuel gave two lectures one on the Ubuntu community-ve and one from the Ubuntu Operating System.
** The 04/02/11 Efrain Valles was interviewed on the radio "We're in Line" Classical 100.5 FM, the focus was on Linux and FLOSS Movement in the city of Maracaibo.
** On 12/02/11 saw the first year OpenOlan organized by friends of VelugMcbo in which to stream and it discussed several points between the next version of Ubuntu.
** On 29/01/11 was held in Delta State Amacuro Tucupita Day "User Ubuntu", the topics most discussed were tools and programming languages ​​in SL, Venezuela Ubuntu Community, national project that encourages each community of SL, the use of SO Ubuntu and easy for new users, etc..
** There will be meeting the possibility of moving the site to a server provided by one of the members which was approved.

For more information read the minutes of February
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/MinutasReuniones/20110216
