{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== VenkatRaghavan (robotgeek) ==

I have been using Linux on and off since 2002. After the Hoary release, I replaced by OS X installation with Ubuntu on my powerbook and have since never looked back. Ubuntu is an operating system I was very impressed with. (I used to use Yellow Dog Linux and Debian before. I even tried Gentoo,lol). It has a very friendly community, and makes it pretty easy to ask questions and contribute back to Ubuntu. I now run Mac OS X from within Ubuntu, thanks to the MacOnLinux project!
 
I have installed Ubuntu on my ibook, on my friends Toshiba laptop, another friends AMD64 machine just to test out Ubuntu on various platforms. I also run a Ubuntu server at work. 

I currently use Dapper on my ibook with no current plans to upgrade! 

=== Ubuntu Activities ===

==== Support ====

The amount of time I spend on Linux has reduced dramatically since I started working. IRC time has reduced significantly, though I hope that all that will change now :). 

==== Documentation ====
As a part of the Ubuntu doc team, I am working on the Kubuntu Docs for Gutsy. 

==== Bugs ====

I report bugs which affect my setups. 

==== Other ====

Used to maintain <nowiki>[[http://easyubuntu.freecontrib.org|EasyUbuntu]]</nowiki>. 

==== Future Plans ====

* Getting Kubuntu Desktop Guide in time for Gutsy!
* Greater involvement in Documentation Team activities (and hence understanding). 

 
=== My contact information ===

* Email:  * IRC : robotgeek on irc.freenode.net 
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/venkatvc|venkatvc]]</nowiki>
* Forums: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=53141|robotgeek]]</nowiki>
* GPG Key ID: <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x9DCFDFD0915F831B9979A1AA72663D39E9E707A9|E9E707A9]]</nowiki>
* Homepage : <nowiki>[[http://robotgeek.org|http://robotgeek.org]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
