{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''I am applying for Ubuntuforums Membership.'''

'''I am volunteering for Ubuntu Forums Moderatorship.'''

'''I am not nominating myself and I will only stand if I get a second to nominate me.'''

'''I am trying to keep this very simple. My name is Dale Beaudoin. I am (aka) ventrical at Ubuntuforums.org.  I have been an end_user at ubuntuforums  since 2010, little more than 2 years. I have contributed comments in Testimonials and am a member of the U+1 Team. I have also participated in a small part in the beta testing process of new Ubuntu releases.'''
 

'''I started my electronics career in 1964 at age 9 reparing old vacume tube TVs and IBM cash registers. I had recieved a Certificate (Certified Pinball Machine Repair Technician) from St. Clair College of Applied Arts and Technology in 1976. I have work experience in reparing all types of pinball machines, video games and juke boxes prior to 1985 (including some of the first pinball machines with microprocessors (although I was not involved in programming them).'''

'''I started my computer carreer in earnest in 1988 at the data level entry position running and administrating Reflex Database. I took formal classes at the University of Windsor (Canada) in 1990 (Introduction to Algorithms, Turing Language, Vax Unix and BASIC.'''

'''I operated and administered two BBSes from 1990 to 1993 and was a regular contributor to FidoNet echos at the request (and as an invited guest) of the Network Echo Co-ordinators.'''

'''In 1995 I breifly  tested Linus Torvorld's kernel through one of the LINUX FIDO ECHOS but was more involved in security matters with Microsoft Operating systems where I spent the  larger part of my time.'''

'''I became familiarized with Linux again in 2008 with Knoppix,PCLinux and Ubuntu (Hardy Heron). I continued on from there and have found all variants of Ubuntu a very  effervescent experience.'''

== My Work ==

'''I have worked extensively in computer repair and malware removal with Microsoft based systems. I currently work on call for the repair of specialty radio devices. I am also a piano refinisher/tuner. My other work includes assaying recyclable computer components for their precious metal content, computer consultations and general labour of all sorts.Simply put, I am an electornic repair technician. One of my passions is programming but I can rarely find the time to do any coding as work is always calling. I always hope that I can make more time for Ubuntu testing.'''

== My Hobbies ==

'''I like fitness and work an active program everyday. Running, cycling, swiming and kayaking are a list of my favorites. I also like bowling and playing chess. And of course - experimenting with all sorts of  computer hardware - whatever I can get my hands on from the local buisnesses around here - keeps me really busy.'''

== Ubuntu Contributions ==

'''I have tried to become involved as best as possible in the forums discussions (Testimonials) but for the larger part I have been involved with testing Development Releases U+1. I have tired to participate in maintaining part of the U+1 Testers wiki and have found that an enjoyable and rewarding experience. I try to be moderate in my veiws and replies but I am always willing to debate computer concepts vigorously. I hope to become a member of Ubuntu Forums so that I may eventually get back into some programming and help with some bug work-a-rounds. I cannot really say that I have helped anyone with any major  problems but in a few instances I might have forwarded a quote or some code that was contributed by other members that could have been of help.  I am not afraid to admit that I stand on the shoulders of giants .'''

== Conclusion ==

'''Thank you for considering me as a member of Ubuntu Forums. If other information is required, please do not hesitate to ask.'''

== Testimonials ==

'''Anyone is free to write a testimonial if they would. Thanks in advance.'''
