{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-vt|ubuntu-us-vt@lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
* IRC: Channel #ubuntu-vermont on Freenode

== Plans for New Groups ==
I am <nowiki>[[http://www.brsu.org/dmfrench|Dan French]]</nowiki> and I want to start a LoCo team for Vermont.  I have been using Ubuntu for two years as my primary operating system and have used Ubuntu to setup an LTSP-based lab in school districts.  I am a Vermont school superintendent and am interested in promoting Ubuntu in the education community.

I am Paul <nowiki>[[http://www.flint.com/flint|Flint]]</nowiki> I am an early Ubuntu user.  I joined the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/flint|launchpad]]</nowiki> team in 2005 at UBZ in Montreal.  I have done a couple of projects.  These are

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gin|Gnome Instant Nationalization]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MondoMindi|MondoMindi Documentation Support]]</nowiki>

In order to better support the Vermont Effort, I would submit the following links:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.flint.com/vtlug/upcoming.html|Vermont Libre Users Group]]</nowiki> (VTLUG)

* <nowiki>[[http://www.bosivt.org/|Barre Open Systems Institute]]</nowiki> (BOSIVT)

I share Dan's interest in LTSP classrooms, and part of the lab function at BOSIVT is to validate LTSP labs of various open source stripes.

I would like to suggest the establishment of the State LoCo as www.vtloco.org.  At this time I am having this site linked to the vtlug site.  Also note the affiliation with the <nowiki>[[http://www.uvm.org/vague/|Vermont Area Group of Unix Enthusiasts]]</nowiki> with which we need to maintain a very close relationship.
