{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

A little caution. Technical arguments (e.g. more translations/user base doubling every X months) could outdate. '''An argument without evidence, is just a claim.'''

RHEL4 is a far superior server product to Windows and a leading server product
amongst UNIX distributions for good reason. So lets have some respect for what
Red Hat has achieved in this industry.

== No subscription ==

 1. Not required to pay for security updates

 1. There is no required license fee

 1. There are no non-required license fees either

 1. No charge in perpetuity - that is a fundamental business principle of Canonical. Ubuntu is not charged through a subscription as many other Linux distributions are.

 1. Because Ubuntu has no restrictive software licenses associated with it, anyone can copy and redistribute.

== Support ==

 1. There is more than one company that provides commercial support. See http://www.ubuntu.com/support/marketplace

 1. Industry support from IBM for DB2 http://www.ubuntu.com/news/db2cert

 1. some questions for which we have no answers yet - such as official support from HP and IBM on their hardware : and be sure that this something that all of the competitors will ask our customers / users.

 1. Canonical depends on its channel partners to deliver service and support to end users and businesses running Ubuntu. It does not have to manage channel contention.

 1. Certification http://www.ubuntu.com/partners/certification/pro

== Feature match ==

 1. Mass deployment options; Preseeding vs Kickstart

 1. Does Ubuntu have a web-based management system comparable to Webmin?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.swsoft.com/en/products/plesk75reloaded/reqs/|Plesk supports Ubuntu 5.04]]</nowiki>

== More choice ==

 1. The leading package management system, APT.

 1. More developer friendly. Ubuntu has rails.

 1. Ubuntu has three official flavors  ( soon to be 4 ) and offers real choice to users. e.g. Edubuntu

*** Edubuntu is uniquely targeted at junior schools and is creating interest
    around the world.

*** Edubuntu has LTSP at its core, and is tightly integrated to make thin
    clients easy to manage for schools in particular

 1. Flexibility - no worries about changing Ubuntu for personal or company needs to make a derivative distro for specific requirements.

 1. Ubuntu users have access to the largest variety of FOSS through worldwide mirrors carrying Ubuntu and 17,000 plus application packages

== Larger community ==

 1. Larger community. More users. More checks. Better quality.
*** Debian based, though with driven manual checks instead of time based QA

 1. Netcraft Survey http://news.netcraft.com/archives/2005/12/05/strong_growth_for_debian.html Though that's for Debian stable. Not Ubuntu. And Red Hat still maintains leadership.

 1. A larger pool of active developers producing up to date code quicker through the Debian community

 1. Better translations to help developing countries and markets provide a truly localised and usable Linux

 1. Ubuntu has a user base in 215 countries worldwide : supported through a very efficient distribution system, enabling OSS benefits to be had by everyone.

 1. Ubuntu's user base is doubling approximately every 9 months

 1. Ubuntu has access to many hundreds of testers around the world and this feedback is incorporated into the releases

== Canonical commitment ==

 1. Available to anyone for free through Shipit, a free CD distribution service

 1. Some statement by Mark?
----
CategoryBrainDump
