{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Straight Centrifugal Grinder from Zhengzhou Vipeak Heavy Industry Machinery Co., Ltd, is widely used in mining, chemical ,metallurgy industry, which can grind the carborundum, zirconite, quartz, granite, barite, marble, limestone, talc, gypsum, slag, porcelain, glass and other more than 200 kinds of materials that Moh's hardness is below 9.5, non-explosive, non-flammable minerals. The final products can be adjusted as required between 0 and 2.8 mm

 Features    
Applications 0-3mm coarse powder grinding 
Field of application Agriculture, biology, construction materials, glass / ceramics, mining, mineralogy, metallurgy 
Feed material medium-hard, hard, brittle, tough 
Size reduction principle pressure 
Material of grinding Ring and Rollers manganese steel, Chromium-molybdenum Alloy 
Dust Filter System With Bag Dust Filter 
Durability depending on feed material 

Working Principle of Straight Centrifugal Grinder:
The motor brings along the central shaft to drive through the belt pulley. The lower part of the shaft connects with the hanger, on the frame is loaded with the roller equipment. The roller equipment does revolve around the central rotation, at the same time it revolves around the grinding rings, and it self also rotates on account of the rubbing effect. And the material will vertically fall down from the Silo. After distributing, the material falls into the space of the rollers and rings to grind on account of the centrifugal force yielding from the extruding, thus get the powder.
Product Advantages of Straight Centrifugal Grinder:
Energy-saving
High-efficiency
High utilization rate of the wearing Parts 
High Reliability 
Easy grinding hard material 
Wet Process and Dry Process
Room-saving and long service life 
Final product size:0-3mm 

http://www.trituradoramin.com
http://www.grinderpro.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Crusher.html
http://www.crushingmill.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Spanish/Hammer.html
http://www.vipeakgroup.com/Spanish/Sand_Washing.html
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com/sand_making_machine.html
http://www.vktrituradora.com/
