{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== VIA P4V8X-MX ==

'''Feisty'''
The installation of Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn) went on smoothly, although it took more than one hour to finish it.  Sound and broadband internet worked out-of-the-box.  I had to compile the Unichrome driver to enable 3D acceleration.  Compiz or beryl is not yet supported.

'''Gutsy'''

'''Hardy'''

MPN 	P4V8XMX
Key Features
Form Factor 	Micro ATX
Compatibility 	PC
Chipset 	VIA P4M800
Compatible Processors 	Intel Celeron, Intel Pentium 4
Front Side Bus Speed 	800 MHz

Technical Features
Integrated Input/Output Ports 	USB 2.0 x 8 • Serial Port x 1 • RJ45 Lan Port x 1 • PS/2 
Mouse x 1 • PS/2 Keyboard x 1 • Parallel Port (ECP/EPP/SPP) x 1
Expansion Slots 	AGP x8 x 1 • PCI x 3
RAID Support 	JBOD Support • SATA RAID 0 • SATA RAID 1
Storage Controller Type(s) 	Serial ATA x 2, DMA/ATA-133 (Ultra) x 2
South Bridge Chip 	VIA VT8237R

Processor
Socket Type 	Socket 478
Max supported CPUs qty 	1

Memory
Memory Type 	DDR SDRAM
Number of Memory Slots 	2 x 184 Pin DIMMs
Supported RAM speeds 	333 MHz • 266 MHz
Max Supported RAM 	2 GB

Audio / Video
Audio Output 	SPDIF Out • 5.1 Channels
Integrated Audio 	C-Media CMI9761A
Audio Input 	2 x Line In
Video Out Ports 	15 Pin D-Sub VGA port x 1
Video Interface 	AGP 8x
On Board Graphic Processor 	VIA UniChrome

Communication
Networking Type 	Ethernet, Fast Ethernet

Other Features
Other Features 	Chassis intrusion detection • Hyper Thread Technology Ready
Chassis Type 	Desktop
Package Qty 	1

Dimensions
Depth 	8 in.
Width 	9.6 in.

Miscellaneous
Bios Features 	Plug And Play BIOS • DMI2.0 • WfM2.0 • PCI 2.2 • SMBIOS 2.3 • ACPI 2.0
Power Configurations 	Wake On Ring Header • Wake On LAN Header • Wakeup from Keyboard/Mouse
Bios Type 	4 Mbit Flash EEPROM with AMI BIOS
