{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The Vibrating Feeder (Vibratory feeder) is used to transfer the large size materials and granular materials from Silo to receiving device uniformly, periodically and continuously in the production flow and to feed materials into the crusher continuously and uniformly also to screen the materials in the sandstone production line. The Vibrating Feeder is widely used to match the crushing and sieving equipments in many industries including metallurgy, coal mine, mineral dressing, building material, chemical, grinding, etc. 

 Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST 
Advantage: 
1、provide reasonable product selection and design,
2、scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements,
3、strict production process,
4、on time delivery  

Working Principle of Vibrating Feeder: 
There are two eccentric shafts rotating at high speed at the same time from opposite directions, thus the strong centrifugal force is formed. The component forces of centrifugal force along the vibrating direction will always overlap each other, then counteract with that of vertical force from vibrating direction, then exciting force along single direction is formed to drive the feeder vibrate along straight line. When materials are fed into the feeder, they may be thrown up and move like Para curve, then fall down. The materials will move forward on the slope surface of the feeder. 

http://www.trituradoramin.com
http://www.grinderpro.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Crusher.html
http://www.crushingmill.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Spanish/Hammer.html
http://www.vipeakgroup.com/Spanish/Sand_Washing.html
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com/sand_making_machine.html
http://www.vktrituradora.com/
