{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, You-Sheng Yang, a.k.a. Vicamo, apply for upload rights for package backport-iwlwifi-dkms, ipu6-drivers, ivsc-driver, rtl8821ce.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| You-Sheng Yang
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~vicamo
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Vicamo
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.

== Who I am ==
I'm a Linux user/developer since 1998 and a Ubuntu user since 2006, and had been working in Canonical Phone Squad team during 2014-2016, and in Hardware Enablement Team since 2019.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I've been on Ubuntu for 10+ more years and am using it as the only environment for all purposes. In the beginning it was just a pursue for the newest packages available in Ubuntu, and as time goes by, Ubuntu almost become the default Linux desktop/development environment for both personal and work use. With features provided on Launchpad, it also becomes a critical role in interaction with other open source communities. Phone team is another adventure in the Ubuntu family to innovate and resolve the missing parts for Ubuntu to become an universal distribution. Later on, as a member in x86 enablement team this broaden the area of development targets, architectures that I used to be a general user.
=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I've been packaging software, kernel drivers for Debian/Ubuntu, such as:

* <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/vicamo/SF100Linux|SF100Linux]]</nowiki>, DediProg rom burner utility debian packaging
* <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/vicamo/lfdk|lfdk]]</nowiki>, Linux Firmware Debug Kit debian packaging
* Various DKMS drivers:
** <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/vicamo/backport-iwlwifi-dkms|backport-iwlwifi-dkms]]</nowiki>: actively maintaining <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/backport-iwlwifi-dkms|Ubuntu's build]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/vicamo/facetimehd-dkms|facetimehd-dkms]]</nowiki>,
** <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/vicamo/igb-dkms|igb-dkms]]</nowiki>,
** <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/vicamo/rtl8821ce-dkms|rtl8821ce-dkms]]</nowiki>: submitted into <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rtl8821ce|Ubuntu archive]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ipu6-drivers]]</nowiki>: submitted into Ubuntu archive
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ivsc-driver]]</nowiki>: submitted into Ubuntu archive
* Various docker environments based on Debian/Ubuntu:
** <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/hustle-ci/pipeline|Hustle-CI]]</nowiki>, docker-based pipeline for Debian/Ubuntu packaging
** Multi-arched <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/vicamo/docker-brew-debian|Debian]]</nowiki>/<nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/vicamo/docker-brew-ubuntu-core|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> base images

=== Areas of work ===
Mostly the linux kernel, device driver dkms packages, v4l2, and packages related developments across multiarch, such as qemu (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+bug/1980896|1980896]]</nowiki>), v4l2loopback (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/v4l2loopback/+bug/1970983|1970983]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/v4l2loopback/+bug/1968191|1968191]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/v4l2loopback/+bug/1930208|1930208]]</nowiki>, ...), reprotest (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/reprotest/+bug/1855891|1855891]]</nowiki>).
=== Things I could do better ===
I would like to help package uploading to enrich and smooth the development on Ubuntu.
== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Ubuntu is pretty much the default distro for development and daily use of Linux, and such advantages takes the collaboration of the developers across the world. Besides, as a member in Canonical Hardware Enablement Team, we're working on the most cutting-edge hardware about to launch world-wide, and new stuff are invented everyday that takes extra help to accelerate the process.
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I'd like to help submission of new packages, components updates that would help development of Ubuntu. 
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Timo Aaltonen ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored 13 uploads for Vicamo over the past three years. The packages have been of good quality in general and haven't required extra work by me.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
The sponsored packages were backport-iwlwifi-dkms, rtl8821ce and v4l2loopback.

=== Alberto Milone ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored 17 uploads for You-Sheng since 2019, and the quality of the sources was good. I certainly trust You-Sheng and his packaging work.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I have sponsored the following packages for You-Sheng:

backport-iwlwifi-dkms, rtl8821ce and v4l2loopback.

=== xnox ===
==== General feedback ====
vicamo has extensive packaging knowledge and was able to design and implement dynamic packaging of dkms modules in Ubuntu kernels to easily create on the fly stand alone complimentary modules with correct ABI versioned .deb packages and matching meta packages. This has significantly simplified packaging of out of tree modules as needed to support latest generation of hardware. I have also sponsored his work of various other package updates.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

The amazing stuff at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-team/2022-May/130294.html which was then applied and SRUed everywhere.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
