{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Victor Mendonça ===

<<BR>>

===== About Me =====
~-I'm a Help Desk agent who discovered Linux in November 2006, and have since been in love with the operating system.<<BR>> 

My goal right now is to become a Jr. Linux/Unix system administrator. To achieve such goal I have enrolled on Seneca's program for "Unix/Linux System Administrator", as well as reading many books on the topic:<<BR>>
. Linux Administrator Street Smarts: A Real World Guide to Linux Certification Skills, John Wiley & Sons<<BR>>
. LPI Linux Certification in a Nutshell, 2nd Edition, O'Reilly (Currently reading)<<BR>>
. Teach Yourself Shell Scripting in 24 Hours (Currently reading)<<BR>>
. Beginning Unix, Wrox-~
  

===== Technical Background =====
~-. PC hardware<<BR>>
. Experience with entry level networking products (3com home routers, switches, APs and AP controllers)<<BR>>
. Installation and deployment of Ubuntu servers (Basic lamp servers)-~

===== Projects Involved =====
~-Due to may lack of programming knowledge I'm not involved in any project at the moment. I have however devoted my blog to some of the issues I have encountered and was able to resolve while using Linux/Ubuntu.<<BR>>

I'm  also trying to organize a LUG meeting for Mississauga in Canada, Ontario (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mlug|More info]]</nowiki>).-~

===== Contact =====
~-Site: <nowiki>[[http://wazem.org/|http://wazem.org/]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Blog: <nowiki>[[http://wazem.blogspot.com/|http://wazem.blogspot.com/]]</nowiki><<BR>>
ICQ: 420309803-~

...

~-Last Edited: -~
----
CategoryHomepage
