{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:video-advertisement
* '''Created''': 2008 July 09
* '''Contributors''': JohnMoser
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Create a video advertisement for each Ubuntu release, to demonstrate Ubuntu in general.

=== Release Note ===

Be sure to watch the Welcome to Ubuntu video on the desktop!

=== Rationale ===

A video advertisement would visibly demonstrate several basic features of Ubuntu in a compact form, providing a demo to attract new users.

=== Use Cases ===

* The video would become part of Ubuntu Marketing
* It could go on YouTube
* In some areas, local television stations supply 30 second advertising spots on off-peak times for as little as $5 per 1000 expected viewers, making possible the reaching of 20,000 viewers in a $100 investment with a 30 second spot.

=== Assumptions ===

We assume people would watch the video.

=== Design ===

The community would have to produce the movie.

==== Design 1 ====

* '''0:00 - 0:03''' Fade in Ubuntu LiveCD boot, "Start or Install Ubuntu," counting down 3, 2, 1, 0.
* '''0:03 - 0:05''' Cut to Ubuntu desktop, open applications menu, pull up some application (Firefox?)
* '''0:05 - 0:12''' Show varied applications.  Highlight standard applications such as OpenOffice.org, Firefox 3, Evolution, Pidgin.
* '''0:12 - 0:22''' Cut into a view with Compiz, the Theme Browser, wobbly windows.  Cut between themes; don't show ugly load times (time constraint).  Demo desktop switching on the cube, show OpenOffice.org, GIMP, Rhythmbox, Pidgin.
* '''0:22 - 0:26''' Distro highlight.  For Intrepid, possibly highlight memory compression:  "Compressed RAM for improved performance" or the like.
* '''0:26 - 0:30''' Fade out on Ubuntu LiveCD boot (where we started), as counter hits 0.
=== Implementation ===

Implement with the use of much available software:

* Desktop recording
* Video editing
* Virtualization (if you want to bring up the install/liveCD's boot menu?)
* Sound processing
* Music generation

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
