{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The Viglen MPC-L is a small but functional computer that is shipped with Xubuntu.

== Specification ==

* '''Processor:''' Geode 400Mhz
* '''RAM:''' 512 MB (which is the maximum the device will take)
* '''Hard disk:''' 80 GB (at time of writing)
* '''Expansion:''' 6 USB slots (2 1.0, 4 2.0)

== Special offer through UUPC ==

The <nowiki>[[http://podcast.ubuntu-uk.org/|Ubuntu UK podcast]]</nowiki> reviewed the MPC-L in their <nowiki>[[http://podcast.ubuntu-uk.org/2008/07/31/s01e11-blowin-in-the-wind/|S01E11 episode]]</nowiki>.

Listen to that episode to find out how to order the MPC-L for £79.

== Installing Ubuntu ==

As the Viglen MPC-L has no optical drive, but will boot off a USB stick it's probably easiest to use that method to install. Using http://lubi.sourceforge.net/unetbootin.html it is possible to create USB stick from an Ubuntu install CD. The netinst or alternate ISO images seem best because the graphical environment of the Live CD is a bit too painful to sit through.

When installing off a USB stick, you need to use the USB ports on the back of the device. In addition you need to plug the keyboard into a rear USB port too.

==== No Installable kernel was found in the defined APT source ====

Installation may fail with the following error "No Installable kernel was found in the defined APT source" , <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1550587|a workaround posted in the forums]]</nowiki> is possible:

Let the installation continue (say Yes to the message asking if you want to continue without installing a kernel).

At the final prompt "Installation complete" (i.e. the one that appears just before it goes down for reboot), do the following:

* Press Alt+F3 to switch to a virtual console, then press Enter to activate it.
* Type "apt-install linux-image-generic"
* Wait for the prompt to re-appear (you can monitor progress by pressing Alt+F4, but you must Alt+F3 to see whether it's actually finished)
* When the installation of the kernel is complete, press Alt+F1 to return to the installer, and press Enter with the Continue button highlighted to reboot the system

== Known Problems ==

* (FIXED IN KARMIC) https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/318805 - " Missing pata_cs5535 module for geode based controllers". To work around this do the following:-

** Start the alternate installer, and _before_ it gets to the partitioning step, switch to the 4th terminal with ALT+F4, 
** Bring the network connection up "dhclient eth0" 
** wget http://popey.com/~alan/viglen/2.6.28-11-generic_pata_cs5535.ko
** "mv 2.6.28-11-generic_pata_cs5535.ko pata_cs5535.ko"
** "insmod pata_cs5535.ko"
** Switch back to VT1 with ALT+F1, and continue install

* Standard kernel for Ubuntu Intrepid appears to use a console font which the Geode video card cannot do. This results in a corrupted screen part way through the boot process - even in recovery mode.
** To resolve this I had to mount the disk on another machine and then chroot it. I then made sure all standard repos were enabled including -updates, did an update/dist-upgrade and then put the disk back in the Viglen. All was well.
* The system needs to be booted with the kernel boot option <code>pci=noacpi</code>

== Useful blog posts ==

* http://popey.com/Playing_With_The_Viglen_MPC-L
* http://tonywhitmore.co.uk/blog/2008/08/18/viglen-mpc-l-well-worth-79/
* http://tonywhitmore.co.uk/blog/2008/08/22/more-on-the-mpc-l/
* http://knolleary.net/2008/12/12/upgrading-the-mpc-l-from-feisty/
* http://stanford-clark.com/viglen.html
