{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#ffffff; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== About me ==

I am final year student of mechanical engineering student of National Institute of Technology, India. I fell in deep love with linux OS and many Free/Open source technologies. I feel like home on linux. My experiments on computer started on linux. Among all linux I've used Ubuntu is the koolest one I've ever seen. I've propagated Ubuntu fever to all my fellow geeks in our college. I'm very thankfull to Sir Mark Shuttleworth for bringing out such an amazing linux for human beings. On my blog you can find many HOWTO's of Ubuntu. 

I like to play around with various distros. I'm a GNU supporter and GNOME user. I have a dream to bring out linux to reach of each and every individual in India in their local languages. Already there are many people working around this concept. I need to pool all the resources and to bring out a quite stable and highly usable linux OS very soon. 

=== Über Geeks Home ===
 1) <nowiki>[[http://vijaymateti.googlepages.com|Über Geeks Den]]</nowiki>
=== My Blogs ===
 1) <nowiki>[[http://geek-tale.blogspot.com|Geeks Diary]]</nowiki> 

 2) <nowiki>[[http://thinkgeek.wordpress.com|Think Geek]]</nowiki> 

 3) <nowiki>[[http://linusite.blogspot.com|Linusite]]</nowiki> 

=== Ubuntu resouces on my Blog ===

 1) <nowiki>[[http://geek-tale.blogspot.com/2006/02/what-is-about-ubuntu.html|What is about Ubuntu?]]</nowiki>

 2) <nowiki>[[http://geek-tale.blogspot.com/2006/02/firefox-1501-upgrade-howto.html|Firefox 1.5.0.1 upgrade HOWTO]]</nowiki>

 3) <nowiki>[[http://geek-tale.blogspot.com/2006/02/automatix-turns-ubuntu-2-full-throttle.html|Automatix HOWTO]]</nowiki>

 4) <nowiki>[[http://geek-tale.blogspot.com/2006/02/ubuntu-art.html|Ubuntu Art]]</nowiki>

 5) <nowiki>[[http://geek-tale.blogspot.com/2006/02/ubuntu-i-love-you-d.html|Ubuntu Love]]</nowiki>

=== Contact ===
==== IM ====
Google: vijaymateti

Yahoo: vijaymateti
==== Email ====
vijaymateti@gmail.com
----
CategoryHomepage
