{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

I work on free software, and, in particular Indian-language computing related issues. Currently I am working in [ National Brain Research Centre http://www.nbrc.ac.in ], Haryana. Mostly i am looking for FOSS in Neuroscience research specially processing of Human Brain function. The important aspect of human brain is we still not  able to  say how neuronal information processed in human brain. My kin interest is to develop FOSS tool for Brain Information Processing. 
I am also involved in free social software movement towards democratic software.Even significant movement did not make any nominal difference, if we look development of FLOSS software basically in Indian panaroma nothing great technology revolution happens. Nothing wrong to accept that increasing population also makes a significant difference in terms of technology advancement. First of all we need to understand what we can do with FOSS. We can not ignore the potential which is in FOSS, in terms of Indian scenario. Understanding the basic dogma of Free Software Movement, nothing but
a freedom of software which leads to social software. First of all free software movement
or making software which free of cost is not a easy task. We need to think a lot about
prospect of the technology and users point of view.If we look very closely language computation development in India still is in nascent stage. We can not over emphasize our calculation if we compare software in regional language or better to say regional computation in regional software nothing significant progress happen till now. As per my knowledge is concern in India very few FOSS organization who is purely working and promoting the FOSS for common people. As we know localization of software in Indian language is one of the challenges. India is a country of different states better to say country with in cluster of country. My findings about localization of technology either it is a software in Indian language or any other vernacular technology; we have to think who is going to use it. The problem is not that much easy what we are looking for but we need to teach them the users who are going to get benefited out of this. I know some example which supports my logic. The
things happen when one of the FOSS organization presenting their work. They develop
some tools in Indian language but the forget to make it GUI (Graphical User Interface)
and people I mean people who attending unconference the are not able to understand
what’s going on. So because of this past experience I think we need to develop tools in
such a manner the person who do not know any thing he can also use it with small
training. That’s why Mentoring is also a part of FOSS. We need to become a good
mentor of FOSS. I am also thinking about tools which related to blind people. I mean
indigenous brell script in Indian language which detects voice based recognition of the
user action. We also think of action sensor which detects our physical activity. 
