{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Name:''' Vincent
* '''Status:''' ''Xubuntu.org website maintainer''.
* '''Projects:''' Xubuntu, <nowiki>[[http://pivip.org|Pivip]]</nowiki>
* '''Location:''' The Netherlands
* '''Running:''' ''Xubuntu''
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~vinnl
* '''IRC:''' ''vinnl'' @ irc.freenode.net

'''Latest update on:''' 3 August 2008

''This page is based on CodySomerville with permission, feel free to do the same.''

=== About me ===

Living in the Netherlands, I'm a GUI-oriented Xubuntu user looking to help people by writing tutorials and helping on IRC (I'm often in #xubuntu and #xubuntu-devel) and mailinglists (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-users|xubuntu-users]]</nowiki>, which I administer, and <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>).

=== Skill Set ===

Though not of much use to Xubuntu, I'm fluent in (object-oriented) PHP, XHTML and CSS. I've also toyed with the GIMP and Inkscape.

Besides, I'm very familiar with Xubuntu so I can help most people with most basic and some advanced tasks. I also have a small amount of experience with Ubuntu.

Dutch is my native language, and I can officially call myself a "near-native speaker" when it comes to English. Writing is something I quite enjoy - a skill I use in writing tutorials regarding, among others, Xubuntu.

=== My Contributions ===

==== Team Membership ====

* See https://launchpad.net/~vinnl/+participation

==== Translation/Localization ====

* For upstream Xfce I've done Dutch translation work, most notably for Thunar.

==== Support & Bug Triage ====

* Helping with Xubuntu in #xubuntu on irc.freenode.net
* Occasionally triaging a bug on Launchpad.
* Tracking Xubuntu on <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Brainstorm]]</nowiki>, making sure ideas end up with the right people.

==== Documentation ====

* Writing tutorials on third-party sites.

==== Community, Advocacy, & Marketing ====

* Managing Xubuntu.org
* Promoting Xubuntu at my own and other websites

==== Code, Packaging, & Development ====

* Nothing much to see here...

=== Plans & Goals ===

Finding as much time as possible to contribute to Xubuntu with the limited set of relevant skills I have.
----
CategoryHomepage
