{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': Wheye Image Creator
* '''Created''': 2007-06-20
* '''Contributors''': Viper550
* '''Packages affected''':  

=== Summary ===

This specification describes a system that may be used to generate the recovery partition for the Iono platform.

=== Rationale ===

Creating the recovery partition as an image on the hard drive will significantly speed up the recovery process when requested. The creation of the recovery images before an OEM computer is shipped is a crucial aspect of creating an integrated recovery solution for Linux-based computers, although it is not intended for the "true" end users, creating the image should be as quick and painless as possible.

---

<code> The following sections need extensive work </code>

=== Scope ===

A Linux based system utilizing MondoRescue as its core will be the imaging platform for Iono, we just need to integrate it in the proper format in order to create recovery images properly.

=== Design ===

The Wheye Live CD will contain a stripped down Linux enviroment (maybe simliar to the Ubuntu installation discs), and it will utilize an ncurses based application as it's UI. The program will automatically calcuate how much space is needed to store images for the Linux system as installed, and will resize the Root partition to make room for the Recovery partition at the end of the disc. The program will then call mondoarchive to create the recovery images of the base system, copy the Iono enviroment for the actual Recovery operation, and append GRUB's menu.lst with an entry to launch the recovery application.

=== Implementation ===

I'm not quite sure how we will implement it just yet...

=== Comments ===
