{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Belt Conveyor is a kind of machine that to transfer the material continuously. The belt works under the effect of frictional force. It is not only the components to transfer the material, but also the components to transfer the force. The Belt Conveyor is advanced and simple in structure, easy to maintain. Its transfer capacity is high, transfer distance is long. They are widely used in mining, metallurgical and coal industry to transfer sandy or lump material, or packaged material. In many situation, it Is a very important component of nonstandard machinery. 

 Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST 
Advantage: 

1、Provide reasonable product selection and design

2、Scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements

3、Strict production process,on time delivery 
 

The conveyors consist of standard parts, which are advanced and simple in structure, easy to maintain. They are widely used in mining, metallurgical and coal industry to transfer sandy or lump material, or packaged material. According to different transferring equipment, the transfer system can be one independently or multi-conveyors or combined with other transfer equipments. The Belt Conveyor can be installed horizontally or aslope to meet the needs of different transfer lines. 

The Belt Conveyors can be operated in the circumstance temperature range from -20℃ to +40℃. The temperature of transferred material by this Belt Conveyor should be lower than 50℃. 

http://www.crushingmill.com
http://www.grinderpro.com
http://www.vipeakgroup.com 
http://www.crushermobile.com
http://www.vipeak.com/en
http://www.crushertrade.com
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com
http://www.vipeakcrusher.com  
http://www.vipeakmill.com
