{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Sand Making Machine (namely PCL Vertical Shaft Impact Crusher) is of high-power and low-consumption, which is designed depending on several year's hard work and study of mechanical mining equipment. Sand Making Machine absorbed the advanced technology of the same products of Barmac Company of America, now is of the international level. Sand Making Machine plays an important role in crushing minerals into pieces. PCL Vertical shaft Impact Crusher is widely used in all kinds of mineral, cement, corhart, carborundum grain, glass raw material, machine making construction sand, stone stock and all kinds of metallurgy slag, especially carborundum, sintered bauxite, magnesite, and so on materials with features of very hard and anticorrosion. And Sand Making Machine is more productive than other kind of crushers.

  

Characteristics of Vertical Shaft Impact Crusher (Sand Making Machine):

1. Simple structure and low operating cost; 
2. High crushing ratio with low consumption; 
3. Function of fine crushing and crude grinding;
4. Slightly influenced by moisture content of material, and the max moisture content is about 8%; 
5. More suitable for crushing mid-hardness and high hardness materials; 
6. Cubic shape of final products, high density of piling up and low iron pollution; 
7. More wearable and easier maintenance; 
8. Low working noise (lower than 75 decibel) and light dust pollution. 

Web:
http://www.vipeakmill.com
http://www.trituradoramin.com
http://www.grinderpro.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Crusher.html
http://www.crushingmill.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Spanish/Hammer.html
http://www.vipeakgroup.com/Spanish/Sand_Washing.html
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com/sand_making_machine.html
http://www.vktrituradora.com/
