{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by jledbetter at 17:00 ==
 <''''''> Hello everyone :) Welcome to the Virginia team meeting. Please speak into the bot's microphone that you're here. (saying "here" is fine)

 <''''''> +0

 <''''''> Well I know Jagged and BrumleyGap are here

 <''''''> ummm. sorry, but how to I "talk in to the bot's microphone?"

 <''''''> Just type whatever you like like that. I think that's how it takes attendance by if someone said something after "#startmeeting"

 <''''''> #topic Release parties

 <''''''> [topic] Release parties

=== Release parties ===
 <''''''> * whistle *

 <''''''> So, looks like Tarvid had a release party April 30. Was anyone able to get to that or have one of your own?

 <''''''> Hi sheridan. We just started :)

 <''''''> Good evening

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> Well, sounds like no release parties. Totally understandable. Busy time of year. Has anyone upgraded to Natty?

 <''''''> jledbetter: I wanted to but I was out of town :(

 <''''''> was hoping you'd host one in newport news

 <''''''> jtatum, Thought about it but didn't have time to make natty cupcakes

 <''''''> I upgraded...

 <''''''> sheridan, How'd it go?

 <''''''> very smooth...I also made the decision to get rid of my windows partition on this laptop and am solely ubuntu

 <''''''> I updated, but Unity 3D didn't run on my old Fujitsu netbook. Using 2D

 <''''''> Runs slower. There have been a few crashes, but nothing major

 <''''''> Yeah, my hardware didn't like the 3D stuff either.

 <''''''> Haven't upgraded my dev box yet since I'm in the middle of a few projects.

 <''''''> yeah, I'm on 10.04 for all my other machines

 <''''''> i have the isos downloaded

 <''''''> I left my desktop in the basement on windows 7 since I have all my favorite games there...found out that the graphics chip in my laptop does not have a linux driver so no opengl for me....:-(

 <''''''> Aw

 <''''''> Oh, and speaking of natty, we have Open Week that started today: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek

 <''''''> I saw that, but don't know what server to go to...found the channel...

 <''''''> This server, freenode.

 <''''''> cool will add the channel then for future reference

 <''''''> Great. They usually do weeks of education around releases for users. Then there are sessions for developers and such too.

 <''''''> yeah, freenode is the channel for all ubuntu related stuff.. and a lot of not ubuntu related stuff too

 <''''''> s/channel/server/

 <''''''> Looks like lexvegas wanted to talk about CD distribution but isn't here. So I'm going to table that for when he's here.

 <''''''> jtatum, True

 <''''''> Sorry I missed the "Getting involved via the Beginners Team" session

 <''''''> BrumleyGap, That's tomorrow :) So you haven't yet!

 <''''''> ah, thanks!

 <''''''> I'll be working on that after this meeting actually. Hopefully get more folks using the team and joining it. Lots of great projects out there and sometimes hard to find them.

 <''''''> I forget, what is the offset for EST vs UST? (UCT?

 <''''''> I forget too so use the timeanddate site. http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=5&day=4&year=2011&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=0

 <''''''> -4 hours for DST?

 <''''''> Since we have that daylight time stuff and whatnot.

 <''''''> ya...

 <''''''> [topic] New business

=== New business ===
 <''''''> Did anyone else have anything to add?

 <''''''> nope

 <''''''> Ubuntu Developer Summit is May 9-13: http://uds.ubuntu.com/  You can attend remotely if you want. Covers all sorts of topics from design to community (us) to development.

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> uds is great

 <''''''> Yep. Hopefully will go next cycle in Orlando.

 <''''''> Well, if there's nothing else, let's close up and I'll update the report for council. :)

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 17:24 ==
=== People Present ===
* jledbetter

* jtatum

* BrumleyGap

* sheridan

=== Actions Recorded ===
