{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by jtatum at 17:06 ==
 <''''''> #TOPIC Leadership options/elections

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Leadership options/elections

=== Leadership options/elections ===
 <''''''> Well, this is jledbetter's items but essentially the gist is that there weren't any nominees for leadership of the Virginia team

 <''''''> I don't think that will work out

 <''''''> We made a bunch of plans for how to handle elections and changing various team settings but none of it really came in to play

 <''''''> party

 <''''''> jtatum, Yep, sorry. :)

 <''''''> evenin

 <''''''> Hey!

 <''''''> Howdy :)

 <''''''> Great, hi everyone! :)

 <''''''> We're all just 10 minutes behind :D

 <''''''> So, what do we do with no nominees? We can continue with some admins, try another round of nomination/elections, or ....?

* '''''' nominates jledbetter 

 <''''''> I second that, Jagged

 <''''''> The open source way: sounds like someone's getting voluntold :)

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> For how long?

 <''''''> <sandlot>for...ev...er!</sandlot>

 <''''''> I know the reason I didn't nominate in the first round was that I felt that I didnt know who wanted to be elected/who would be a good choice, and im wondering if that was the cause for no nominations

 <''''''> lexvegas, Could be.

 <''''''> Jagged, Good movie, but heck no.

 <''''''> How about 1 year

 <''''''> Ok. Much better than forever.

 <''''''> Maybe 1a bit less, so we could have elections in January, the OCD in me would like that.

 <''''''> How about after holiday craziness

 <''''''> Jagged, Is that January?

 <''''''> yeah, i didnt think about that aspect of it.

 <''''''> Interesting :) Sounds like we have consensus on a candidate, but not a duration.

 <''''''> Options 4/4/2011 - 1/1/2011 or 4/4/2011 - 4/4/2012. I'm more a cycle person so would sync it up with the releases of Ubuntu personally.

 <''''''> which would make 4-4 a good choice

 <''''''> jtatum: I like lining it up with the releases

 <''''''> Ok, let's make the bot do some work. Well, let's see if it does it. I'll do two options. +1 the one you dig.

 <''''''> I started the meeting so i have to & hm

 <''''''> VOTE Term is 4/4/2011 - 12.04 (April 2012 release)

 <''''''> oh, copy past then? Or maybe it's [blah]

 <''''''> [VOTE] Term is 4/4/2011 - 12.04 (April 2012 release)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion:  Term is 4/4/2011 - 12.04 (April 2012 release)''
|}
 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> [ENDVOTE]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 4 in favour, 0 against, 0 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 4
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:  Term is 4/4/2011 - 12.04 (April 2012 release)
|}
 <''''''> And the other option was 4/4/2011 - 1/1/2011

 <''''''> [VOTE] Term is 4/4/2011 - 1/1/2012

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion:  Term is 4/4/2011 - 1/1/2012''
|}
 <''''''> +0

 <''''''> +0

 <''''''> +0

 <''''''> +0

 <''''''> If everyone abstains...

 <''''''> Then the other choice wins :)

 <''''''> I guess

 <''''''> +0

 <''''''> [ENDVOTE]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 0 in favour, 0 against, 5 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 0
|-
| <#55FF55>Deadlock:  Term is 4/4/2011 - 1/1/2012
|-
| <#55FF55>Casting Vote:
|}
 <''''''> [AGREED] Leadership term shall be until 12.04 release

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Leadership term shall be until 12.04 release''
|}

 <''''''> Any other nominations from the floor?

 <''''''> I'm not an expert in this, but if there's only one nominee, do we still hold an election?

 <''''''> Or& grats jledbetter :)

 <''''''> i notimate jledbetter's kitty kat

 <''''''> Depends on if you're following Robert's Rules, etc.

 <''''''> dasnipa|arpy, He said "no"

 <''''''> Right-o. No other nominations, and we're not Robert's Rules types overall so grats me. Raar.

 <''''''> Thank you, everyone :)

 <''''''> grats jledbetter :)

 <''''''> congrats!

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Global Jam/Release Party

 <''''''> jtatum, Now you do it ;)

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Global Jam/Release Party

=== Global Jam/Release Party ===
 <''''''> Thanks :)

 <''''''> Did anyone attend or have a global jam?

 <''''''> I wish. Couldn't make it. It was just a bad weekend for me

 <''''''> I had to play my car-less student card

 <''''''> There were a couple of online things, weren't there? I saw something on Friday. There's no way I could have done that

 <''''''> didn't see anything about that. :/ oh well

 <''''''> Not sure if there were. I just know of the ones that were in person.

 <''''''> um& were there any in Virginia?

 <''''''> Not that I know of. I thought about it but the timing stunk for me too.

 <''''''> Well, there's next cycle so probably August-ish.

 <''''''> I see why this is called global jam/release party. We're going to take the lesson learned of having no global jam and moving forward, plan something for a release party, right? :)

 <''''''> jtatum, Exactly!

 <''''''> Though I will be the first to admit that planning something in person is not always the easiest for me :) Y'know. So uh. Anyone doing a release party? :)

 <''''''> well, considering that we're basically all spread out, maybe we should do it online

 <''''''> like, synchronize beer!

 <''''''> now everyone eat a bit of cake!

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> or pie if that's your custom

 <''''''> I think I pitched this before and the idea was pretty hated, and it's possibly terrible.

 <''''''> Well, I'll probably be online anyway. Looks like it's April 21-May 5 timeframe. End of the semester and such. Hard.

 <''''''> Well, let me check some stuff and maybe I'll have a small gathering near May 1. I'll let the list know of course if anyone's in town :) (Southeast Virginia)

 <''''''> Before we close out the meeting, was there anything else anyone needed to bring up for discussion?

 <''''''> Alright, then thank you all for coming and voting for me! I hope I do ya proud.

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 17:46 ==
=== People Present ===
* jtatum

* lexvegas

* dasnipa|arpy

* jledbetter

* Jagged

=== Actions Recorded ===
