{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by jledbetter at 17:01 ==
 <''''''> o/ jledbetter!

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Attendance. Please say if you're here for the meeting :)

=== Attendance. Please say if you're here for the meeting :) ===
 <''''''> <-- here, obviously

 <''''''> oops i said it too early

 <''''''> It's all good :)

 <''''''> [TOPIC] SouthEast LinuxFest

=== SouthEast LinuxFest ===
 <''''''> SouthEast LinuxFest is in South Carolina from June 10-12. Unfortunately, jtatum and I won't be going and they're looking for speakers for Ubucon. So in case anyone's interested, here's more information: http://www.southeastlinuxfest.org/

 <''''''> [LINK] http://www.southeastlinuxfest.org/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.southeastlinuxfest.org/''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Other announcements?

=== Other announcements? ===
 <''''''> Anyone have anything else to chat about?

 <''''''> well...

 <''''''> oh

 <''''''> I did some upgrades to 11.04

 <''''''> Me too. What'd you think?

 <''''''> had a strange mouse problem on my dell box. every left click would just move the window

 <''''''> had to fall back to classic :(

 <''''''> i would like to spend more time in unity. despite having used it in UNR for so long it feels different on the desktop

 <''''''> Yeah, I know what you mean

 <''''''> I still want to check out Kubuntu but not sure how it would work with Lernanta and such.

 <''''''> this was a fast meeting :) summer meetings can get that way I guess

 <''''''> should work the same. in fact if you just install kubuntu-desktop you can switch back and forth. the packages you use for lernanta shouldn't be affected

 <''''''> Yep. Library board didn't make quorum last month and since I'll be at a conference, it might not again this month too.

 <''''''> Ah good

 <''''''> I know there were little quirks between 11.04 and 10.10

 <''''''> Welp. Gonna close this and get back to codin' ;)

 <''''''> jtatum, Thanks for coming!

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 17:10 ==
=== People Present ===
* jtatum

* jledbetter

=== Actions Recorded ===
