{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Next meeting is September 12, at 8PM Eastern Time. Please add anything to the agenda below if you want it discussed.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Mootbot-UKHowTo|How to use the meeting bot]]</nowiki>

=== June 5 2013 Meeting Agenda ===
* Possible October Install Parties
* Member contributions
* What can we as a LoCo do?

=== September 12 2011 Meeting Agenda ===
* Added your agenda item here plus your irc nickname

=== August 1 2011 Meeting Agenda ===
* Announcements:
** <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/1011/detail/|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki> September 2 - 4, 2011 UTC (jledbetter)
** <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/en/blog/148-welcome-to-2011|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki> September 17, 2011 (jledbetter)
* <nowiki>[[VirginiaTeam-Meetings-20110801|Meeting Minutes]]</nowiki>

=== July 11 2011 Meeting Agenda ===
* Developer week announcement (jledbetter)
* <nowiki>[[VirginiaTeam-Meetings-20110711|Meeting Minutes]]</nowiki>

=== June 6 2011 Meeting Agenda ===
* Announcement:
** <nowiki>[[http://southeastlinuxfest.org|SouthEast LinuxFest]]</nowiki>  June 10-12, 2011 in Spartanburg, SC (jledbetter)
* <nowiki>[[VirginiaTeam-Meetings-201100606|Meeting Minutes]]</nowiki>

=== May 2 2011 Meeting Agenda ===
* Release parties? (jledbetter)
* LoCo CD Distribution (End of Shipit)  (lexvegas)
* <nowiki>[[VirginiaTeam-Meetings-20110502|Meeting Minutes]]</nowiki>

=== April 4 2011 Meeting Agenda ===
* Chair: jledbetter
* Discuss leadership options/elections (jledbetter)
* Events: Global Jam/Release Party (jledbetter)
* <nowiki>[[VirginiaTeam-Meetings-20110404|Meeting Minutes]]</nowiki>

=== March 2011 Meeting Postponed ===
* Meeting postponed until April in order to better discuss the leadership options.

=== February 7 2011 Meeting Agenda ===
* Chair: jledbetter (by default)
* Revisit membership renewal results
* Discuss leadership options/elections
* VirginiaTeam mailing list
* <nowiki>[[VirginiaTeam-Meetings-20110207|Meeting Minutes]]</nowiki>

=== December 6 2010 Meeting Agenda ===
* Chair: Jagged
* We need more parties in our tummies!
* Old business:
** Reapproval process status?
** Regional Reps?

=== November 1 2010 Meeting Agenda ===
* Chair: jledbetter
* <nowiki>[[http://uds.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Developer Summit]]</nowiki> (jledbetter)
* Update regional roles? (jledbetter)

=== October 5 2010 Meeting Agenda ===
* Chair: jledbetter
* Add your agenda item here.

=== August 3 2010 Meeting Agenda ===
* Chair: jtatum
* Add your agenda items here.

=== July 6 2010 Meeting Agenda ===
** Chair: jledbetter
** Quick review of <nowiki>[[http://southeastlinuxfest.org/|SouthEast LinuxFest]]</nowiki>
** July 6: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoHealthCheck|LoCo Council Health Check]]</nowiki> 
** July 10-11: <nowiki>[[UserDays|Ubuntu User Days]]</nowiki>
** July 12-16: <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek|Ubuntu Developer Week]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/100UsersProject|100 Ubuntu Users Project]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://blog.paultags.com/2010/06/locoteams-microblog-tag/|#locoteams tag]]</nowiki>
    

=== June 1 2010 Meeting Agenda ===
* Add your agenda items here.

=== May 4 2010 Meeting Agenda ===
* Add your agenda items here.

=== March 10 2009 Meeting Agenda ===
* Add your agenda items here.

=== March 3 2009 Meeting Agenda ===
* CD Distribution details

=== Feb 16 2009 Meeting Agenda ===

* Regional leaders - since we're a big state we need to get regional leaders on board for local meetings and events
* Logo - anyone good with gimp want to make a logo?
* Event ideas - This all depends on the area and what kind of events would be good for each area. 
* Purpose Statement
* Short Term Goals
* Please add more if you wish to discuss them.
