{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by jledbetter at 17:05 ==
 <''''''> Ah ha!

 <''''''> yes, I am.

 <''''''> Great. :)

 <''''''> We've added a few folks to the administering of the account so that we can spread the paperwork a bit.

 <''''''> What do you think? Expire after a year good?

 <''''''> As in a year of inactivity?

 <''''''> well, that's what it's set for, so hopefully it's good :)

 <''''''> I think after a year, you have to say "Yes, I want to be a member still."

 <''''''> lexvegas: when folks sign up, it defaults to expiration in a year. sometime before you expire from the team you get an email like "if you want to stay on this team, click [here]"

 <''''''> and you're renewed. pretty simple, helps us keep the counts to people who are really still users.

 <''''''> sounds good. that makes sense to do that.

 <''''''> Great. Was that what the revisit was, jtatum?

 <''''''> i'm not sure. it's done though. i never did find a way to change existing users. i think it is doable with something like selenium

 <''''''> Ok.

 <''''''> #topic Discuss leadership options/elections

 <''''''> Drat. Guesses aren't always perfect ;) Pardon my n00bness but haven't messed with the bot before.

 <''''''> jtatum, Do you know what this one was about? I missed last meeting :)

 <''''''> totally forgiven :) that would have been my guess too

 <''''''> yeah. there isn't a real elected leadership in the va loco. basically we need to do nominations and run a real election.

 <''''''> launchpad has the facilities for this so, it's probably the best option

 <''''''> The poll?

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> for nominations, we can solicit them via email or some such

 <''''''> Haven't used that for voting before. I guess folks interested will put a blurb on their wiki pages?

 <''''''> How many? 3?

 <''''''> VA is really small. i reckon 1

 <''''''> it's unusual to see more than one

 <''''''> Reckon, eh? ;) Alright, 1. I'll send out an email to get names.

 <''''''> let's figure out dates now

 <''''''> so the email can say nominations due by <date> and election will be from <date> to <date>

 <''''''> I'll email within the week. So, hm.

 <''''''> Wednesday or Friday of next week for end of nominations?

 <''''''> I like that.

 <''''''> ah hi

 <''''''> And close of voting by the next meeting so we can announce? Looks like it's March 7

 <''''''> had to make dinner

 <''''''> Jagged, Howdy :) No worries. As long as you brought enough for us all.

 <''''''> I made 4 burgers

 <''''''> veggie?

 <''''''> maybe give a day of padding in there, so close at the end of the 5th?

 <''''''> lexvegas, Great idea. * marks it down *

 <''''''> So, nominations due by 2/16. Voting 2/18-3/5. Announcement: 3/7

 <''''''> Work for everyone?

 <''''''> awesome!

 <''''''> sounds good!

 <''''''> that's great

 <''''''> maybe throw in a reminder halfway through voting on the mailing lists

 <''''''> Sure, I can do that. That way I can attach bribery--I mean...

 <''''''> haha

 <''''''> ;)

 <''''''> Anything else re: leadership options/elections?

 <''''''> can we nominate others? :)

 <''''''> They need to agree, in my opinion.

 <''''''> It's flattering though to be nominated.

 <''''''> Anything else before the next topic?

 <''''''> negative

 <''''''> nope

 <''''''> Alrighty.

 <''''''> [topic] VirginiaTeam mailing list

=== VirginiaTeam mailing list ===
 <''''''> jtatum or Jagged, do you know what we needed to cover on this?

 <''''''> uhhh

 <''''''> do not remember

 <''''''> who added that one?

 <''''''> Jagged, I think. If I'm reading this history right.

 <''''''> I think we took care of that though

 <''''''> because we enacted the annual renewal

 <''''''> Sweet.

 <''''''> I've been useless the past two months :(

 <''''''> Then that's all of the topics on the agenda that I see.

 <''''''> Jagged, I've been quite busy too. It's all good :)

 <''''''> no worries Jagged :)

 <''''''> short meeting is good :)

 <''''''> That it is.

 <''''''> Unless there's anything else, I'll close the meeting and we can chit chat.

 <''''''> Alright!

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 17:34 ==
=== People Present ===
* jledbetter

* lexvegas

* jtatum

* Jagged

=== Actions Recorded ===
