{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{{{#!IRC
19:54:23 <jtatum>	early welcome, virginians :)
19:57:00 <OSNewbVA>	Thank you!
20:01:30 <jledbetter_>	howdy
20:02:49 <jtatum>	8pm. meeting time
20:03:39 <jledbetter_>	Ok
20:04:00 <jtatum>	i'll start stuff off. first, apologies for not starting an agenda. i really had every good intention of doing that :)
20:06:29 <jtatum>	pretty much the only thing on my agenda is getting the loco more active. i've seen active locos and they are awesome, so i'm hopeful we can make that magic happen here :)
20:09:25 <jtatum>	hm
20:09:30 <jtatum>	my irony sense is tingling
20:09:35 <jledbetter_>	lol
20:10:02 <jledbetter_>	well we can start with the established *nix groups and go from there, maybe
20:12:15 <jtatum>	yeah, I just started attending the local unix group in norfolk. it's great seeing the os diversity there. unfortunately i think i am going to miss their next meeting due to uds
20:12:47 <jledbetter_>	you'll have something to talk about the next unix group then
20:14:10 <jtatum>	i wish i knew what made some locos so successful. unfortunately itnet7 seems to be away or i'd ask him to add his two cents
20:16:20 <jtatum>	i do have some ideas about how i'd like to proceed though. first, if you're here, i assume you are on the mailing list. you also want to make sure you are subscribed on the forums
20:17:17 <jtatum>	This is the virginia forum: http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=236
20:17:37 <jtatum>	it gets 1-2 posts per month right now. obviously very low. the problem is that posts don't usually get replies
20:18:03 <jtatum>	if you look at the newest thread, you'll see that i replied to kcgrad's post two weeks after they posted it
20:18:25 <jtatum>	the solution is to subscribe to the forum itself
20:19:31 <jledbetter_>	ok will do
20:19:56 <jtatum>	once you log in, the link to subscribe is under "forum tools"
20:20:50 <OSNewbVA>	Good deal
20:22:49 <jtatum>	other loco teams have kind of a local presence... i'd like to do that too. unfortunately i'm not really aware of anyone in this area. the LP team shows people that are around here but the few "active" folks i've seen are all elsewhere in the state.even so i'm thinking about doing an ubuntu hour
20:24:02 <jtatum>	the idea is that you go somewhere public, announce that you're going, and sit there using ubuntu for an hour or so, optionally with install media
20:24:57 <jledbetter_>	like a flash mob?
20:27:14 <jtatum>	h
20:27:16 <jtatum>	m...
20:27:53 <jtatum>	no? more like sit there and see who shows up, and i guess the purpose is for the public. i'll admit i'm not entirely clear on this one. there is some documentation on the wiki under ubuntu hour.
20:28:53 <jledbetter_>	interesting. Well, hm. Guess we could do that.
20:29:54 <jledbetter_>	I'd also say have moo cards at upcoming geekfests
20:31:16 <OSNewbVA>	Moo cards?
20:31:46 <jledbetter_>	They're about half the size of normal business cards. Would be nice to scatter around.
20:33:13 <jtatum>	moo mini cards - aside from jledbetter's the only other ones i've seen are from canonical employees :)
20:33:29 <jledbetter_>	copycats!
20:34:05 <OSNewbVA>	I see the wiki even has a list of regularly scheduled Ubuntu Hours.
20:34:15 <jtatum>	well enough about that. i'll just follow-up with the list if i wind up going somewhere and see if anyone shows up. :)
20:34:23 <jtatum>	you guys on 10.4?
20:34:44 <OSNewbVA>	Yes.  So far so good.  :-)
20:35:56 <jtatum>	i'm digging it. i upgraded the netbook to it a couple of weeks ago and loaded it on a new asus laptop i got. 
20:36:09 <jtatum>	they always improve the bootups :) i think they're looking good
20:36:45 <OSNewbVA>	From a superficial standpoint, I'm glad to see a break from the orange/brown color scheme.
20:37:33 <jtatum>	yes, i'm hearing that a lot and agree. how about the window control placement?
20:37:42 <jtatum>	everyone seems to have an opinion on it ;)
20:38:22 <OSNewbVA>	It's taking a while to adjust, but I'm trying to keep an open mind.  I'm still flying over to the right too often.
20:39:11 <jtatum>	it's like ls. after you use linux for a stretch you'll start typing it in windows. same with the window controls maybe? :)
20:40:14 <OSNewbVA>	Right.  Part of what I'm enjoying about Ubuntu is just having something new and different to explore.
20:40:53 <OSNewbVA>	And I haven't seen a "blue screen" in ages.  :-)
20:42:02 <jtatum>	that's neat :) run in to any bugs?
20:43:17 <OSNewbVA>	So far, no real bugs... I AM starting to look into new applications such as how to rip a DVD, etc. in Linux.
20:43:41 <OSNewbVA>	Even the Dell laptop wireless was fairly painless to set up.
20:44:18 <jtatum>	that's cool :) i've run into a few. nothing too awful except for a suspend bug on the laptop.
20:44:37 <jtatum>	yeah wireless in ubuntu is great. imo the best experience of any os but i'm a little biased.
20:48:45 <jtatum>	if i had to criticize it, it would be about moving place to place. in windows, if i wake up a laptop that was on for instance the wireless at work and it's now at home, windows figures this out and connects to the correct network fairly quickly.
20:48:56 <jtatum>	ubuntu seems to... not do that. but perhaps there's something i'm missing settings wise
20:49:46 <OSNewbVA>	What are your thoughts on antivirus software for linux?
20:50:16 <OSNewbVA>	I was a Windows user for so long that I feel like I should run something... though I consider myself a relatively safe browser.
20:51:09 <jtatum>	good question. there are some commercial offerings but i wouldn't run any of them. i don't think it's an effective way to add security to your system for linux
20:51:36 <Othor>	the main reason to have AV on linux would be to keep Windows safe if you move files back and forth from the two OSs
20:52:55 <jtatum>	interesting point Othor. i was thinking that some corporate environments may require them by policy as well.
20:53:14 <jtatum>	clamav has a great reputation and is a solid tool for scanning for windows virii
20:54:52 <Othor>	i had clamav running on mine for a while, it seemed to do a good job of finding virii i would download for fun...lol
20:55:27 <Othor>	i like running them on XP VMs to see what the do/change
20:57:16 <jtatum>	ah haha
20:57:39 <jtatum>	well before someone made that windows port of it, it was and is a native linux scanner... the community wiki has install directions at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ClamAV
21:00:12 <OSNewbVA>	Thank you
21:06:21 <OSNewbVA>	Gotta run - see you guys next time.
}}}
