{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by jledbetter at 17:00 ==
 <''''''> [TOPIC] Hellos

=== Hellos ===
 <''''''> Who's here for the meeting? :)

 <''''''> howdy!

 <''''''> I'm here today

* '''''' celebrates

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> dasnipa, Othor?

 <''''''> that's weird, dasnipa was just here

 <''''''> I guess dasnipa is building another chrome table.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Announcements

=== Announcements ===
 <''''''> hi

 <''''''> i had to get hummus

 <''''''> Well, only thing I saw was Ubuntu Global Jam and Software Freedom Day. Anyone doing anything or want to do anything?

 <''''''> dasnipa, Bring that to the party!

 <''''''> the party in my tummy?

 <''''''> [LINK] http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/1011/detail/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/1011/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> [LINK] http://softwarefreedomday.org/en/blog/148-welcome-to-2011

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://softwarefreedomday.org/en/blog/148-welcome-to-2011''
|}

 <''''''> [LINK] Master Sword

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Master Sword''
|}

* '''''' facepalms.

 <''''''> sorry ive been in a zelda mood

 <''''''> if i could somehow eat hummus for software freedom day, i'd be very happy

 <''''''> Right. So. Uh. No interesting in Global Jam? I was thinking of maybe but so distracted with the jobs. Could maybe do something virtually but schedule something offline? Meh.

 <''''''> jtatum, You can.

 <''''''> you have the freedom to create a hummus recipe software\

 <''''''> and it could be FOSS software

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Anything else?

=== Anything else? ===
 <''''''> let's s--

 <''''''> Didn't see anything else on the agenda so... anything else?

 <''''''> Oh, I did fill out our report for July so there's that :)

 <''''''> nothing here... I've just been a total slacker the last 7 months :|

 <''''''> Heh :) Well it /is/ summer and you had a wedding or something.

 <''''''> topic: how to trick a female python coder into baking cake

 <''''''>   /msg chanserv help ban

 <''''''> :(

 <''''''> ;)

 <''''''> Actually, I probably should. Probably going to miss UDS :(

 <''''''> I've only baked one cake before.... thankfully it turned out successful (But I'm not a female, nor am I a python coder :P)

 <''''''> dasnipa, There ya go.

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 17:16 ==
=== People Present ===
* jledbetter

* Jagged

* jtatum

* dasnipa

=== Actions Recorded ===
