{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/virt-infrastructure

=== Summary ===

As virtualization  becomes more popular, we need a way to integrate new virtualization software more easily. This spec for feisty describes improvements to what we have already.

=== Scope ===

* We aim to provide "just install it" support for an ordinary Ubuntu virtual server with the choice of KVM, OpenVZ, or XEN.
* We will provide the infrastructure to build, package and integrate existing management tools for creating, starting, stopping and maintaining the virtualized environments.

=== Use Cases ===

* A system administrator wants to deploy one or more physical servers partitoned into virtual machines to serve different services to his users.
* A data center administrator wants to overhaul his existing virtualisation infrastructure and is looking at various options.
* An Ubuntu developer wants to test the latest development snaphost of Gutsy while still having his workstation running on feisty.

=== Work Items ===

=== Xen ===

* Port Xen to 2.6.22.
* Synchonrize xen-3.0 up to Xen 3.1
* Re-investigate virt-manager, make it Ubuntu/debian specific if needed.
* Create xen metapackages.

=== OpenVz ===

* Work with upstream to get openvz kernel ported to 2.6.22.
* Synchronize openvz* with Debian
* Create openvz metapackages.

=== Comments ===

* why not support vserver? I've been using it for a long time and it works very well. (VáclavŠmilauer)
