{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Foreword ===

This page was used to discuss virtualization options at UDS Boston (Hardy).  

For documentation on how to use Ubuntu as a virtualization host or guest, please see https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Virtualisation.

=== Discussion ===
The state and future of Ubuntu JeOS. - "Ubuntu JeOS Edition has been tuned to take advantage of key performance technologies of the latest visualization products from VMware."

This Virtualization page will also go over information for Xen.

 Integrating Ubuntu Server JeOS Edition into the normal Ubuntu build process.
 Discuss JeOS support for XEN, Parallels, OpenVZ, Linux-Vservers, KVM, QEMU, VirtualBox, Virtuozzo, VirtualIron others
 
 Discuss opensource virtualization technologies.  What should Ubuntu support?
 
=== Use Cases ===

* What does JeOS offer over a standard Ubuntu install. ??
* How will ubuntu JeOS tools integrate with Xen?
* Is JeOS mature enough to be supported by official ubuntu setup tools, or is it just going to be part of universe for now?

* Server consolidation
** reproducability for support, testing, documentation, included nested vms, cow files etc
* Server segregation
* disaster recovery - migration of vms
* rapid deployment
* desktop uses, e.g. running multiple OS on the desktop

=== Ubuntu 8.04 ===
 
** Pre-installed server/appliance VM will be built as part of standard Ubuntu build process (along with server ISOs)
** JeOS should be one of the tasks from the standard server installation
** JeOS will also be provided as pre-built VM for selected technologies
  
=== User Space tools ===
** What tools are needed to be setup in a quick and automagic manner?
  
=== Xen ===
** Xen should be very stable on Ubuntu 8.04. It has been tested with many existing ubuntu releases. In most cases, apt-get install ubuntu-xen-server, will get a machine all ready to go. The community has built lots of information for guidance on this process, https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Xen . xen-tools makes setting up new guests quite easy. Xen requires no changes to the ubuntu install process, and can simply convert a new ubuntu server install into a ubuntu xen server.

=== Links ===
** https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-jeos/  Script for building vm's in a snap!  <-- Goes into main, needs documentation + visibility
** http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtualization  Comparison of virtualization technologies
** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Xen
  
==== Management Utilities ====

* kvm qemu
** qemulator - Desktop Front End
** qlauncher - Desktop Front End
** virt-manager - Requires X on the administrator workstation. Not required on the host machine.
** libvirt
   
* xen
** virt-manager - Requires X (also redhat specific)
** libvirt
*** Plus own toollek
** XenMan - Requires X
** ganeti
** http://xen-tools.org/software/xen-tools/
** http://xen-tools.org/software/xen-shell/
** http://xen-tools.org/software/argos/
** http://wiki.xensource.com/xenwiki/Enomalism

* virtualbox
** VirtualBox graphical frontend requires X
** VBoxSDL (simpler graphical frontend)
** VBoxManage (command line frontend) but still requires x11 install
** VBoxVRDP RDP server frontend
 
http://code.google.com/p/ganeti/
http://virt-manager.et.redhat.com/screenshots.html

=== Technology comparison ===

==== qemu + kqemu ====

==== kvm ====

==== xen ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| QEMU
| KVM
| XEN
|-
| requires hw support
| no
| yes
| yes
|-
| embedded vm
| yes
| yes
| yes
|-
| snapshots
| yesfor all except disk requires lvm etc
|-
| multiple snapshots
|-
| live migrations
| no
| yes
| yes
|-
| supportability
| 3rd p 2.6.20 huge patch
|-
| security
| ++
| ++
| 
|-
| copy on write
| yes
| yes
| yes
|-
| paravirtualization guest
| no
| yes
| yes
|-
| guest side tools
| no
| no
| yes
|-
| pae support          ?
| yes
| YES
| yes
|}

==== Host solution ====

For Hardy 8.04: not container.

=== Next Steps ===
* Finalize requirements
* Post on ubuntu-devel asking for usecases
