{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

We’re preparing Ubuntu GNOME Vivid Vervet (15.04) for distribution in  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule | April 23rd, 2015]]</nowiki>. With this '''Beta 2''' pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next (stable) version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights, known issues and other information. 

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Beta 2 Release. 
Ubuntu GNOME '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu GNOME Beta Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu GNOME developers

For those who don't know the general difference between '''Alpha''' and '''Beta''':
* With Alpha releases, we don't introduce many new features. The system that you are testing on the Alpha stage is under heavy development, however there is a a great chance you will not notice anything just yet.
* It is very common to see - for example - the slide show of the installer states you are installing 14.10 not 15.04. That's not a real bug when it is Alpha. It would be a bug if we are at Beta.
* You usually start to see some visible differences with Beta but not Alpha.

== Getting Ubuntu GNOME Vivid Vervet (15.04) Beta 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/15.04/beta-2/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/15.04/beta-2/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta 2 Highlights ==

=== Software Updates ===
* GNOME Shell 3.14.3
* Experimental wayland session is now available. Install <code>gnome-session-wayland</code> and then select "GNOME on wayland" from login screen '''''(Only works with OSS GPU drivers)'''''.
* The default wallpaper and Ubiquity slide show has been updated. 

== Known Problems ==
=== Ubuntu GNOME Desktop ===

* Utopic Virtualbox guest gets only up to resolution of 640x480 (Bug:1368784) - please see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virtualbox/+bug/1368784/comments/13 | comment #13]]</nowiki> for a possible workaround.
 
* Ubuntu Gnome slideshow missing Korean translation (15.04) (Bug:1425339)

* Sticky/garbled menus in Ubuntu GNOME Vivid w/Intel i945 GPU (Bug:1413062)

* Ubuntu GNOME Vivid - password won't unlock screen (Bug:1425350)

* Ubuntu GNOME Vivid logs out to a blank screen (Bug:1425779)

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu GNOME '''Vivid Vervet (15.04)''' is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date and you're installing the '''latest build'''.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/daily-live/current/ | Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu GNOME ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Testing | More Information about Testing Ubuntu GNOME is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Ubuntu GNOME Official Channels are here]]</nowiki>
