{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Lubuntu 15.04, Vivid Vervet, for distribution in April 2015. With this Beta pre-release, we are now at the stage of being semi stable. However pre-releases are not suitable for a production environment.

'''NOTE:''' This is an beta pre-release. 
Lubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Lubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Lubuntu developers

== Getting Lubuntu 15.04 Beta 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/15.04/beta-1/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/vivid/alpha-1/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta 2 Highlights ==

* LXQt is still in development, so Vivid Vervet is another bug fix release. A late regression in the desktop installer for 32 bit means there is no Desktop installer for this milestone but it does not affect the alternate installer. Systemd is not the default init system. 

=== Software Updates ===

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux Kernel ====
The Beta 2 Vivid Vervet snapshot includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/3.19.0-10.10 | 3.19.0-10.9 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream v3.19 Linux kernel. More available <nowiki>[[http://lwn.net/Articles/632488/|here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Problems ==

* Notification dialogs have striped background: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1362555|1362555]]</nowiki>
* File-roller help is missing: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/file-roller/+bug/1409185|1409185]]</nowiki>
* Lubuntu Software Centre has an issue where it cannot update, Checking the box to autostart policykitauthentication agent, in the autostart tab in default apps for lxsession,  is the current best workaround.<nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1424362 | LSC / UC Bug]]</nowiki>
* Users-admin does not allow users to authenticate to add a new user But the workaround of starting policykit Authentication,  agent, in default apps for lxsession,  also works around this bug. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/1338492 | Users admin bug ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1434774 | alsamixer does not start when right clicking and selecting volume control settings ]]</nowiki> however installing a GUI mixer like pavucontrol or alsamixergui or starting alsamixer in a terminal all still work. 
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1423374 | autoresizing ubiquity claims xfs partions are smaller when they are larger]]</nowiki>
* There appear to be several problems related to Intel Macs: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal/+bug/226894|226894]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1245159|1245159]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxde-common/+bug/1382939|1382939]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1403633|1403633]]</nowiki>

=== Lubuntu Desktop Installer ===
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-meta/+bug/1432843| Desktop installer fails to boot.]]</nowiki> This is a bug that is causing the desktop installer as failing to boot but no fix could be found in time for this milestone.
* No option to install alongside a btrfs partition: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1403624|1403624]]</nowiki>

* Install alongside offers to install to USB boot media instead of hard drive: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1403620|1403620]]</nowiki>

=== Lubuntu Alternate Installer ===

* Guided partitioning "max" gives minimum instead: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1163908|1163908]]</nowiki>
 
== Feedback ==

Development of Lubuntu 15.04, the Vivid Vervet is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>. To install an i686 image for this milestone please use the alternate installer. 

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.
