{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 95%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #ffccaa; font-size: 0.90em;" :> '''Important Note:''' Please '''DO NOT''' Download any version of Ubuntu GNOME without READING '''the Release Notes - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntugnome.org/reading-the-release-notes-is-a-must-do-step/ | here is why]]</nowiki> - specially the Known Issues''' - Thank you!
|}
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

Read this Site in your Language:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/German| German]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes/Ja/UbuntuGNOME| Japanese(日本語)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Korean| 한국어]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Norwegian| Norsk (Bokmål)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/French| Français]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

== Ubuntu GNOME 15.04 ==
'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME | Ubuntu GNOME]]</nowiki>''' is an official flavour of Ubuntu, featuring the '''<nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/ | GNOME]]</nowiki>''' desktop environment. Ubuntu GNOME is a mostly pure GNOME desktop experience built from the Ubuntu repositories. This version is based on the '''GNOME 3.14''' release - Why? please check <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME#See_Also | See Also]]</nowiki> Section for more details.

== Minimum System Requirements ==

* 1 GHz processor (for example Intel Celeron) or better.

* 1.5 GB RAM (system memory).

* 7 GB of free hard drive space for installation.

* Either a CD/DVD drive or a USB port for the installer media.

* Internet access is helpful (for installing updates during the installation process).

If you have an old machine, you may consider other alternatives like '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu]]</nowiki>''' or '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu | Xubuntu]]</nowiki>'''.

== Features of Ubuntu GNOME 15.04 ==

* Most of '''GNOME 3.14''' is now included. See the <nowiki>[[https://help.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.14/ | GNOME release notes]]</nowiki> for more details. The few missing bits of 3.14 are available in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnome3-team/+archive/gnome3 | ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3]]</nowiki>. We do NOT use gnome-software to install applications, instead we use Ubuntu Software Center.

* gnome-maps and gnome-weather are now installed by default. gnome-photos, gnome-music and polari are available to install from the Ubuntu archive.

* GNOME Classic session is included. To try it, choose it from the Sessions option on the login screen.

* Numix is now installed by default.

* Sadly, there are no new community wallpapers for 15.04 but the same old ones are included.

== Applications in Ubuntu GNOME 15.04 ==

* '''GNOME Shell'''. The GNOME desktop environment from where you can search and start applications, switch between windows, etc.

* '''Nautilus''' (File Manager). An easy to use file manager for organizing your documents, music, pictures, videos and files in general.

* '''Firefox Web Browser'''. Browse the web with one of the most popular fast, flexible and secure web browsers.

* '''LibreOffice'''. Create professional documents, spreadsheets, presentations and even more with the open-source office suite.

* '''gedit''' (Text Editor). A small and lightweight text editor for the GNOME desktop environment.

* '''Ubuntu Software Center'''. Lets you browse and install thousands of free and paid applications available for '''Ubuntu'''. 

* '''Tweak Tool'''. Change advanced settings – appearance, fonts, keyboard and mouse, windows and workspaces. Install extensions, set power options, select startup applications.

== Get Ubuntu GNOME 15.04 ==
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/15.04/release/ | DOWNLOAD]]</nowiki> Ubuntu GNOME 15.04 (Vivid Vervet).

=== Upgrading from last release ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 95%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #ffccaa; font-size: 0.90em;" :>'''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntugnome.org/to-upgrade-or-not-to-upgrade/ | To Upgrade Or Not To Upgrade?]]</nowiki>'''
|}
<<BR>>
Before upgrading, it is highly recommended to back up your data. See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem | this page]]</nowiki> for tutorials on how to backup your data. Or just download '''<nowiki>[[http://clonezilla.org/downloads.php | Clonezilla]]</nowiki>''' and create an image of your hard drive or system partition.

The included GUI update manager will offer you the latest release of '''Ubuntu GNOME'''. Which can also be accessed via Terminal:

<pre>
sudo update-manager -d
</pre>

Alternatively, launch '''Terminal''' by hitting Ctrl+Alt+T and run the following command:

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

'''Note'''. If you were using the '''gnome3-team/gnome3-staging''' PPA, you should run
<pre>
sudo ppa-purge ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3-staging
</pre>
before upgrading.

* If you are having problems with upgrading - '''''No new release found''''' - please <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/125392/why-is-no-new-release-found-when-upgrading-from-a-lts-to-the-next | see this]]</nowiki>.

* More information about '''Upgrading''' can <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/110477/how-do-i-upgrade-to-a-newer-version-of-ubuntu | be found here]]</nowiki>.

== Personal Package Archives (PPAs) ==

PPAs for '''Ubuntu GNOME''' can be found on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Developers | this link]]</nowiki>.

* Missing bits of 3.14 are available on the Gnome3 PPA

* Most of 3.16 is now available on the Gnome3-staging PPA

== Known Issues ==
* Installation freezing when selecting manual partitioning (Bug:1361951): This can be avoided by creating partitions with gparted before running the installer.

* Will not resume from suspend on some hardware (Bug:1447331).

* Ubuntu GNOME does not boot after install - blank screen after grub menu (Bug:1447356).

== Ubuntu Release Notes ==

* For common issues with '''Ubuntu''', please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes | Ubuntu release notes]]</nowiki>. 

== Support ==

* 9 Months – see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases | releases]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu GNOME 15.04 (Vivid Vervet) is our Non-LTS Release, hence it is supported for 9 months only. If you seek stability and long support, please consider <nowiki>[[http://ubuntugnome.org/ubuntu-gnome-14-04-lts-is-released/ | Ubuntu GNOME 14.04 (Trusty Tahr) LTS]]</nowiki> Release. If you seek the latest software/packages that we can offer, then go ahead and use Ubuntu GNOME 15.04 (Vivid Vervet).

== Contact Us ==

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Contact Us]]</nowiki>

== See Also ==
* '''Q:''' Why GNOME 3.16 is not included by default with Ubuntu GNOME 15.04?
* '''A:''' Please see <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-gnome/2014-September/002278.html | this E-mail]]</nowiki> and while the versions are different on that email, the concept remains valid and same applies to 15.04 for the very same reason mentioned. 
To get the latest GNOME, you need to use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Developers | our PPA]]</nowiki>. 
