{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

We’re preparing  Ubuntu GNOME Vivid Vervet (15.04) for distribution in  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule | April 23rd, 2015]]</nowiki>. With this '''Alpha 1''' pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next (stable) version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Alpha 1 Release. 
Ubuntu GNOME '''Alpha Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu GNOME Alpha Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu GNOME developers

For those who don't know the general difference between '''Alpha''' and '''Beta''':
* With Alpha releases, we don't introduce many new features. The system that you are testing on the Alpha stage is under heavy development, however there is a a great chance you will not notice anything just yet.
* It is very common to see - for example - the slide show of the installer states you are installing 14.10 not 15.04. That's not a real bug when it is Alpha. It would be a bug if we are at Beta.
* You usually start to see some visible differences with Beta but not Alpha.

== Getting Ubuntu GNOME Vivid Vervet (15.04) Alpha 1 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/15.04/alpha-1/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/15.04/alpha-1/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Alpha 1 Highlights ==
=== Software Updates ===

* Gnome-shell is still 3.12 for now (hopefully by Alpha 2, we shall have 3.14).
 
* Few applications have been updated to 3.14 (hopefully by Alpha 2, most of the applications will be 3.14).

* gnome-terminal has transparency again.
 
* Window control Button layouts have been reverted to upstream default (only close); use gnome-tweak-tool if you want to get back the other controls.

== Known Problems ==
=== Ubuntu GNOME Desktop ===
 
* Utopic Virtualbox guest gets only up to resolution of 640x480 (Bug:1368784) - please see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virtualbox/+bug/1368784/comments/13 | comment #13]]</nowiki> for a possible workaround.
 
* Password not accepted graphical boot for encrypted root system  (Bug:1386005)

* hwdb.bin does not exist during live system boot  (Bug:1401677)

* Utopic -> Vivid upgrade fails because no Vivid extras repo exists (Bug:1403103)

* Illegible dark blue text on grey background (Bug:1404028)

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu GNOME '''Vivid Vervet (15.04)''' is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date and you're installing the '''latest build'''.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/daily-live/current/ | Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu GNOME ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Testing | More Information about Testing Ubuntu GNOME is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Ubuntu GNOME Official Channels are here]]</nowiki>
