{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

We're preparing Ubuntu MATE Vivid Vervet (15.04) for distribution in  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule | April 23rd, 2015]]</nowiki>. With this '''Beta 1''' pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next (stable) version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Beta 1 Release. 
Ubuntu MATE '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or work-flows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu MATE Beta Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu MATE developers

For those who don't know the general difference between '''Alpha''' and '''Beta''':
* With Alpha releases, we don't introduce many new features. The system that you are testing on the Alpha stage is under heavy development, however there is a a great chance you will not notice anything just yet.
* It is very common to see - for example - the slide show of the installer states you are installing 14.10 not 15.04. That's not a real bug when it is Alpha. It would be a bug if we are at Beta.
* You usually start to see some visible differences with Beta but not Alpha.

== Getting Ubuntu MATE Vivid Vervet (15.04) Beta 1 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===

* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-mate.org/vivid/ | Bootable images for PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===

It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-mate/releases/15.04/beta-1/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta 1 Highlights ==
=== Software Updates ===

Since Alpha 2 we did this:

** Added everything required to build Ubuntu MATE 15.04 to the official Ubuntu archive.
** Added PowerPC as an officially supported architecture for Ubuntu MATE 15.04.
*** Running Linux on PowerPC can require some tinkering and the following are useful references.
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues | PowerPC Known Issues]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ| PowerPC FAQ]]</nowiki>
** Added an interface layout switcher to MATE Tweak, see the video below.
*** <nowiki>[[http://youtu.be/YI4IWO_SpiI | MATE Tweak - User interface switcher]]</nowiki>
** Added <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/plank|Plank]]</nowiki>.
*** Plank is not enabled by default, but can be activated via the ''Eleven'' layout in MATE Tweak.
** Added <nowiki>[[http://foldercolor.tuxfamily.org/|Folder Colors]]</nowiki>.
** Added menu categories to ''System -> Preferences''.
** Added OEM Install.
*** This is as a result of achieving official status.
** Updated <nowiki>[[http://smdavis.us/projects/lightdm-gtk-greeter/|LightDM GTK Greeter]]</nowiki> to 2.0.0 which now includes a MATE logo in the session switcher.
** Updated <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-lightdm-gtk-greeter-settings|LightDM GTK Greeter Settings]]</nowiki> 1.10. Thanks to <nowiki>[[http://smdavis.us|Sean M. Davis]]</nowiki>.
** Updated Yuyo GTK theme to better support GTK 3.14. Thanks to <nowiki>[[http://snwh.org/|Sam Hewitt]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=777142|Fixed GTK+ 2.x]]</nowiki> so it better supports multi monitor under MATE. Thanks to <nowiki>[[https://github.com/monsta |Vlad Orlov]]</nowiki> (MATE Core Dev).
*** This was then merged upstream. Thanks to <nowiki>[[https://github.com/NiceandGently|Wolfgang Ulbrich]]</nowiki> (MATE Core Dev)
*** This resulted in GTK 2.24.26 being released which is now included in Ubuntu 15.04.
** Fixed uninstalling packages from the Ubuntu MATE meta packages.
*** This is as a result of achieving official status.
** Fixed being an unofficial Ubuntu flavour.
*** This is as a result of achieving official status <code>;-)</code>
** Merged <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mate-dev/compiz/compiz-mate/+merge/249578|MATE compatibility integration into upstream Compiz]]</nowiki>
*** While Compiz is installed by default, it is not enabled by default.
*** MATE Tweak includes an option to switch between Marco and Compiz, no log out/in required.

== Known Problems ==
=== Ubuntu MATE Desktop ===

* MATE 1.8x is not fully compatible with <code>glibc</code> >=2.43.1. The MATE team have been working on patches but these are not yet applied in the official Ubuntu archive. Therefore the following PPA should be enabled to get the fixes, you ''really'' want to do this:

<pre>
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ubuntu-mate-dev/vivid-mate
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
</pre>

** The "Notification Area" crashes on first start, and then at random intervals there after but only on **i386**. 
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mate-panel/+bug/1425401|LP: #1425401]]</nowiki>
*** When the `"Notification Area"` has quit unexpectedly` dialogue appears click '''Reload'''.
** Live switching between Compiz and Marco is somewhat experimental and may result in
  no window decorations on some older GPUs.
** Virtualbox guests may only get a resolution of 640x480
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virtualbox/+bug/1368784/|LP: #1368784]]</nowiki>, see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virtualbox/+bug/1368784/comments/13|comment #13]]</nowiki> for a work around.
** Running an Ubuntu MATE live session as a Virtualbox guest may corrupt the video
  output of the guest.
*** You can correct the video display by pressing <code>Host+F1</code> to switch
    VT in the guest and then press <code>Host+F7</code> to switch back which will
    correct the video output.
** The .iso images are a little bigger than they need to be and include some unnecessary
  packages. This is due to the transition from unofficial to official builds and will be
  addressed for Beta 2 or the Release Candidate.
** Some packages scheduled for inclusion in Ubuntu MATE 15.04 have not yet made it into
  the official. Hopefully this can be addressed before Beta 2.
  

Notes of Ubuntu and the known issues.

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu MATE '''Vivid Vervet (15.04)''' is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date and you're installing the '''latest build'''.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-mate/daily-live/current/ | Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu MATE ===

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMATE/Testing | More Information about Testing Ubuntu MATE is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===

** <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-mate.org/community/ | Ubuntu MATE Official Channels are here]]</nowiki>
