{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== What is Ubuntu Kylin ? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users. We are committed to provide you with a delicate, thoughtful and fully customized Chinese user experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing a desktop user interface localized in Chinese and installing common software that Chinese users commonly use by default. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since <nowiki>[[UbuntuKylin | Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> 13.04. Now, we are working on 15.04.

== What's new in Ubuntu Kylin 15.04 Alpha 2 ==

/!\ '''Note:''' ''this is an alpha pre-release, which is not suitable for normal users, but for Ubuntu Kylin developers and users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and fixing bugs.''

We are glad to announce the Release of Ubuntu Kylin 15.04 (codename Vivid Vervet) Alpha 2. In this pre-release, we have fixed many internationalization and localization bugs in Ubuntu itself and bugs in software written by the Ubuntu Kylin team. All the work that Ubuntu Kylin team do is within the Ubuntu community and ecosystem and as such they are flowed back to Ubuntu itself naturally and everyone using Ubuntu can benefit the result of our work.

=== Changes since 14.10 ===

In 15.04 Alpha 2, we have turned on LIM (locally-integrated menu) and "click to minimize" on by default. These two new features will make Windows users easier to adapt to the Unity user interface.

Besides a plethora of bugs fixed in this milestone, several Ubuntu Kylin specific packages have also been updated:

* ubuntukylin-theme updated to 1.2.0
** change the unity-greeter's logo for Ubuntu Kylin 15.04 (LP: #1395611)
** change the Plymouth text for Ubuntu Kylin 15.04 (LP: #1402468)

* ubuntukylin-default-settings updated to 1.3.4
** change the UbuntuLogo.png for Ubuntu Kylin 15.04.(LP: #1395590)
** Remove duplicate sources.list entry for certain applications
** Turn LIM on by default and always show menu (LP: #1412297)
** Turn "click to minimize" on by default (LP: #1412298)

* ubuntu-kylin-software-center, updated to 1.2.3.0
** LP: #1409187: Fix the problem that error dialog will show in live mode.
** LP: #1402953: Fix the problem that program cannot be started up.
** Fixed the problem that interface can not receive the errorcode signal
** Only upgradeable app,installed app can be searched in UPPAGE, UNPAGE
** Improve the detail logic in ui (normalcard.py,detailscrollwidget.py 
    etc)
** Fixed bug #1396051 #1396403 #1396428 #1368208 #1379117 #1373916
### 1396041 etc

** Icon from the server and automatically update the software.
** Detailed interface multifunction button, the default an 
    operation, the drop-down to select other actions.
** Submit software review rules.

** complete list of user-based installation records login to view,
    check a key to install the software.
** users log loading process area to prevent repeat.
** fixes from the search can not click on the current categories 
    (as is currently the treasure) back to the category page of the bug.
** fixes a bug in the software display starts after unloading canceled.
** repair function to delete all tasks logical errors.

* youker-assistant, updated to 1.3.3
** Make it work normally when fisrt start(LP: #1373294).
** Make icons on panel normally(LP: #1380938).
** Make main page normally when double clicked the link Btn and the back Btn(LP: #1387927).
** Shred big file normally(LP: #1373302).
** Display animation when cleaning up garbage.
** Resolve SSO issues when there is network problem.
** Add 3 OS rankings.

* chinese-calendar, updated to 1.0.1
** add dependency on libqt4-sql-sqlite (LP: #1343191)
** Not translated content in "Launch application preference" (LP #1306863)

* unity-china-music-scope, updated to 1.0.7
** Fix online search option (LP: #1370353)

== Support ==

* Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Project page: http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* Bug tracker: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* IRC channel: <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntukylin-devel|irc.freenode.net #ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntukylin-devel | ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Chinese QQ Group: 
** Developers: 125729037
** Users 1: 262012757
** Users 2: 306929327
** Users 3: 75642661
** Users 4: 398104181
** Users 5: 8010855 
* Weibo: http://weibo.com/u/3265288504
* Wechat: UK201304
* E-mail: contact@ubuntukylin.com

== Download ==

The Alpha 2 ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/vivid/alpha-2/ | here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

Below is the list of prominent bugs that are existing in Alpha 2:
* In UEFI mode, default langauge in Ubiquity language chooser is not Simplified Chinese.(bug #<nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1380981|1380981]]</nowiki>)
* Writing 14.10 images by usb-creator in 14.04, USB stick will fail to boot (bug #<nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1325801|1325801]]</nowiki>)
* Some icons in Dash are bigger than others (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1408235|1408235]]</nowiki>)
* Some applications are unable to show their icons in launcher (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1408249|1408249]]</nowiki>)
* the link of the release note is not UK introduction in the welcome page (bug #<nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1330414|1330414]]</nowiki>)

Other outstanding issues that are planned to be fixed in the Vivid cycle can be found 
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.importance%3Alist=UNKNOWN&field.importance%3Alist=UNDECIDED&field.importance%3Alist=CRITICAL&field.importance%3Alist=HIGH&field.importance%3Alist=MEDIUM&field.importance%3Alist=LOW&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.structural_subscriber=&field.milestone%3Alist=68123&field.milestone%3Alist=68124&field.milestone%3Alist=68125&field.milestone%3Alist=68126&field.milestone%3Alist=68122&field.milestone%3Alist=68127&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on | here]]</nowiki>.

For issues related to Ubuntu itself, please refer to the Ubuntu project at Launchpad.

== Thanks ==
Thanks to everyone involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 15.04 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide and https://developer.ubuntukylin.com.
