{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Release Notes Beta 2 Vivid Vervet ====

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Beta 2 Release. 
Xubuntu '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Xubuntu Beta Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
 
==== New features, applications and packages ====
Between the last milestone and this, there a major update of Xfce to Xfce 4.12 was <nowiki>[[http://xfce.org/download/changelogs/4.12| released]]</nowiki>.

Many packages saw bug fixes amongst the release of Xfce 4.12.

==== Important bug fixes and enhancements ====

==== New Major application versions ====

* mousepad 0.4.0
* parole 0.8.0
* ristretto 0.8.0
* thunar 1.6.6
* thunar-volman 0.8.1
* xfce4-appfinder 4.12.0
* xfce4-panel 4.12.0
* xfce4-places-plugin 1.7.0
* xfce4-power-manager 1.4.3
* xfce4-screenshooter 1.8.2
* xfce4-session 4.12.0
* xfce4-settings 4.12.0
* xfce4-weather-plugin 0.8.5
* xfdesktop4 4.12.0
* xfwm4 4.12.1

==== Known issues ====

Ejecting the install medium after install is followed by hangs - regardless of whether installed to virtual or hardware. Power off and restart, the install will be available. Either hard power off or REISUB

On hardware, option to eject install medium and restart leads to a hang. Power off and restart (see below) 

(Bug:1307545) Power Manager settings are ignored when closing laptop lid

(Bug:1332931) "Display configure screen settings and layout" window opens automatically every view seconds

(Bug:1388922) xdg-open doesn't properly detect Xfce/Xubuntu

(Bug:1389400) wrapper-2.0 crashed with SIGSEGV in strrchr()

(Bug:1390933) Find and Replace Search Direction defaults to down

(Bug:1395720) authentication in livesession accepts any value as password

(Bug:1397095) dragging applications in the task bar causes repaint errors

(Bug:1426770) Run In Terminal from whiskermenu fails

(Bug:1436715) Vivid DVD fails to reboot or shutdown w/o hard reset 
