{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== New features, applications and packages ====
Xubuntu now uses Xfce 4.12, which was released on February 28 2015. The new release has brought both some new features and many bug fixes over the old 4.10/4.11 components.

For a complete changelog for '''Xfce 4.12''', see the 4.12 changelog on <nowiki>[[http://xfce.org/download/changelogs/4.12 |Xfce.org. ]]</nowiki>

==== Highlights ====

* New/Updated Xubuntu Light/Dark colorschemes in Mousepad, Terminal

* Mousepad colorscheme set to Xubuntu Light by default

* Better appearance  for QT applications out of the box (default to GTK theme)

* Redundant File Manager (Settings) menu entry removed

==== Updated Packages ====

* abiword 3.0.1

* apt-offline 1.6

* blueman 1.99

* exo (Xfce support library) 0.10.4

* firefox 37.0

* garcon (Xfce menu library) 0.4.0

* gnumeric 1.12.18

* inxi 2.2.16

* light-locker 1.6

* lightdm-gtk-greeter 2.0

* lightdm-gtk-greeter-settings 1.1.0 (NEW in vivid)

* mousepad 0.4.0

* parole 0.8.0

* pavucontrol 2.0.3

* ristretto 0.8.0

* thunar 1.6.6

* thunderbird 31.6

* tumbler (Xfce thumbnailer) 0.1.31

* xfce4-appfinder 4.12.0

* xfce4-dev-tools 4.12.0

* xfce4-indicator-plugin 2.3.3

* xfce4-netload-plugin 1.2.4

* xfce4-panel 4.12.0

* xfce4-places-plugin 1.7.0

* xfce4-power-manager 1.4.3

* xfce4-screenshooter 1.8.2

* xfce4-session 4.12.1

* xfce4-settings 4.12.0

* xfce4-systemload-plugin 1.1.2

* xfce4-taskmanager 1.1.0

* xfce4-weather-plugin 0.8.5

* xfce4-whiskermenu-plugin 1.4.3

* xfce4-xkb-plugin 0.7.1

* xfconf 4.12.0

* xfdesktop4 4.12.0

* xfwm4 4.12.1

==== Possible Known issues ====

* (Bug:1395720) authentication in livesession accepts any value as password
* (Bug:1397095) dragging applications in the task bar causes repaint errors
* (Bug:1446598) When upgrading, the notes plugin is removed from the panel
** To work around this, simply add the notes plugin back to the panel. Your data is kept intact.
* (Bug:1446605) Power indicator icons are incorrect after upgrade
* (Bug:1447038) 15.04: Shutdown/Restart of live session guest does not work in Virtualbox or VMWare
** This Virtual Machine bug doesn't stop the install proceeding, but you will need to power off, ensure the image is removed from the virtual machine and then start it. 

==== Common Known Issues ====

For common issues relating to the 15.04 release, please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes#Known_issues|Ubuntu Release Notes ]]</nowiki>
