{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Vivid Vervet Alpha 2 Released ==

The second alpha of the Vivid Vervet (to become 15.04) has now been released!

Pre-releases of the Vivid Vervet are *not* encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent breakage.  They are, however, recommended for Ubuntu flavor developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting and fixing bugs as we work towards getting
this release ready.

Alpha 2 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider testing. This is quite an early set of images, so you should expect some bugs.

While these Alpha 2 images have been tested and work, except as noted in the release notes, Ubuntu developers are continuing to improve the Vivid Vervet.  In particular, once newer daily images are available, system installation bugs identified in the Alpha 2 installer should be verified against the current daily image before being reported in Launchpad. Using an obsolete image to re-report bugs that have already been fixed wastes your time and the time of developers who are busy trying to make 15.04 the best Ubuntu release yet.  Always ensure your system is up to date before reporting bugs.

This alpha features images for Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Ubuntu GNOME, UbuntuKylin and the Ubuntu Cloud images.

* Kubuntu:
** Kubuntu uses KDE software and now features the new Plasma 5 desktop.
** The Alpha-2 images can be downloaded at:
     http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/vivid/alpha-2
** More information on Kubuntu Alpha-2 can be found here:
     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/Alpha2/Kubuntu
* Lubuntu:
** Lubuntu is a flavour of Ubuntu based on LXDE and focused on providing a very lightweight distribution.
** The Alpha-2 images can be downloaded at:
     http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/vivid/alpha-2/
** More information on Lubuntu Alpha-2 can be found here:
     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/Alpha2/Lubuntu
* Ubuntu GNOME:
** Ubuntu GNOME is an flavour of Ubuntu featuring the GNOME desktop environment.
** The Alpha-2 images can be downloaded at:
     http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/vivid/alpha-2/
** More information on Ubuntu GNOME Alpha-2 can be found here:
     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/Alpha2/UbuntuGNOME
* UbuntuKylin:
** UbuntuKylin is a flavour of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users.
** The Alpha-2 images can be downloaded at:
     http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/vivid/alpha-2/
** More information on UbuntuKylin Alpha-2 can be found here:
     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/Alpha2/UbuntuKylin
* Ubuntu Cloud
** Ubuntu Cloud images can be run on Amazon EC2, Openstack, SmartOS and many other clouds.
** The Alpha-2 images can be downloaded at:
     http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/vivid/alpha-2/

Regular daily images for Ubuntu can be found at:
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com

If you're interested in following the changes as we further develop Vivid, we suggest that you subscribe to the ubuntu-devel-announce list. This is a low-traffic list (a few posts a week) carrying announcements of approved specifications, policy changes, alpha releases and other interesting events.
* http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

A big thank you to the developers and testers for their efforts to pull together this Alpha release!

Walter Lapchynski, on behalf of the Ubuntu release team.
