{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Lubuntu 15.04, Vivid Vervet, for distribution in April 2015. With this early Alpha pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an alpha pre-release. 
Lubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Lubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Lubuntu developers

== Getting Lubuntu 15.04 Alpha 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/vivid/alpha-2/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/vivid/alpha-1/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Alpha 2 Highlights ==

* LXQt is still in development, so Vivid Vervet is another bug fix release.

=== Software Updates ===

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux Kernel ====
The Alpha 2 Vivid Vervet snapshot includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/3.16.0-28.38|3.16.0-28.38 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream <nowiki>[[https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/linux-3.16.tar.gz|v3.16 Linux kernel]]</nowiki>. The 3.15 release includes increased ARM support and improved drivers (Radeon, Intel, and Nvidia graphics), to name a few; additional highlights are described <nowiki>[[https://www.linux.com/news/software/linux-kernel/783110-linux-316-release-armed-and-ready|here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Problems ==

* Notification dialogs have striped background: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1362555|1362555]]</nowiki>
* File-roller help is missing: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/file-roller/+bug/1409185|1409185]]</nowiki>
* Abiword opens multiple windows when spacebar is pressed, until a new file is opened: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/abiword/+bug/1395323|1395323]]</nowiki>

* There appear to be several problems related to Intel Macs: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal/+bug/226894|226894]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1245159|1245159]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxde-common/+bug/1382939|1382939]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1403633|1403633]]</nowiki>

=== Lubuntu Desktop Installer ===

* No option to install alongside a btrfs partition: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1403624|1403624]]</nowiki>

* Install alongside offers to install to USB boot media instead of hard drive: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1403620|1403620]]</nowiki>

=== Lubuntu Alternate Installer ===

* Guided partitioning "max" gives minimum instead: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1163908|1163908]]</nowiki>

== Feedback ==

Development of Lubuntu 15.04, the Vivid Vervet is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.
