{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Background ==
** 25 years old, living in the Czech Republic, Brno
** Using Ubuntu since Hoary times, before that used Debian
** Became Ubuntero via Launchpad on 2005-10-16, however changed the key (which is now signed by a Debian developer) so the last signed CoC is from 2006-11-17
** Cooperating with people from #ubuntu-java for nearly a year now.
** eclipse-pydev package since 2006-02-13 sponsored by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/doko|doko]]</nowiki>
** Upgrading several patches for eclipse-3.2
** Packaged several dependencies for eclipse-3.2
** Lots of bug reports on Launchpad
** See also <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/vil/+packages]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/vil/+karma]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/edgy/+source/eclipse/+changelog]]</nowiki>

== Skills ==
** Java, C / C++, Python, Perl, Web technologies
** 10+ years experience with Linux

== Goals for Ubuntu ==
** Promote use of Java in Ubuntu and use of Ubuntu as development platform using Eclipse.
** Package software that I find useful and missing in Ubuntu. Currently I am looking at Bioclipse and disscusing this with people at #ubuntu-java.
** Sync Java packages from / to Debian.
** Report every bug (especially usability bugs) that annoys people around me.
----
CategoryHomepage
