{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Proposal for a Formal Specification on VoIP Integration ===

==== Introduction ====
VoIP integration unites the comfort of voice and video telephony with the convenience a computer desktop environment has to offer.

The main idea is to alert the user about incoming voice calls in consideration of his current activity and state of Presence.

While smartphones, for example, are configured to interrupt all activities outside actual voice/video calling aggressively in order to relay an incoming call to the user, a regular desktop environment is expected to be more flexible than that.

Using the desktop for the many useful appliances it has outside voice and video telephony, the situation suggests the introduction of a new protocol that maps the desktop operator's state of Presence/Availability to Indicator State / Notification System behaviour for the case of incoming voice/video telephony events.

==== Defining Presence ?! ====
Many poeple use the terms "presence"[1] and "availability" synonymously in discussions.
This document will use the name Presence to represent the concept of "availability state".
Presence, broken down into states, is already known to us as follows:
* online
* offline
* busy aka "do not disturb"
* away (from keyboard)

"invisible" aka "hidden" and "idle" as actual states of presence will not be honored for now.

Apart from IM, presence has also a local man-machine interaction significance:
The changes proposed by this spec concern rather the desktop session than the instant messaging status of availablity.
Busy, DoNotDisturb or "Fullscreen" is a property that many applications desire to control already, undisturbed workflow with no trivial interruptions.

The usual activities associated with computers include consuming media online, offline or from storage resources nearby, i.e. ebooks, presentations, movies and music. If i want to listen to music only, all communications off for a while, i need a button that i can press in order to achieve that state.

This button will be a special item in the session menu, which loads a special gnome-session mode: Do Not Disturb.

In order not to lose this precious metaphor (the DND button), we can regard it as a flag, that could be set on any window or floating object carrying activity or interactive elements individually.

For the local session, there are only 2 states of presence to differenciate between:
default and custom. Here, custom may be called "private", "busy" or "do not disturb".
The two states will have to be complementary to each other, in order to make sense. This means, the entire state must be complementary to the other entire state. If "default" means available or whatever it got changed to during the default session, then "private" should be customized for an opposed extreme, e.g. not available or do not disturb.

In pots we used answering machines to handle that use case, in a Desktop Environment a logical approach would help eliminate unneccessary constraints, confrontations or avoidances.

Simply gathering information about where in the interface environment we have frequent issues with disturbance or destraction should suffice to create a per-application or per-window configuration scheme for DND-session-mode.

===== private mode per application =====
* Empathy should offer its Presence states as symbolic toggles for the "private mode session preset" in the session menu
* browserplugins and media apps should be set to maintain fullscreen mode until intentionally revoked by the user
* the messaging menu would not expose an incoming message to the user, unless it is from a favourite contact or unless messaging was set to "available" manually for private mode

===== private mode per window =====
* Contact List should expose its sorting and filter state as configurable items via dbus or gconf
* 

==== Information Route ====
Caller -> remote VoIP client <-> relaying service(XMPP or Skype) <-> local VoIP client -> Indicator-Me -> Indicator-Messaging -> NotifyOSD -> User

==== Actors ====
Actors[2]:
* Notification System
* MeMenu
* Messaging Indicator
* Voice Call Software
* Caller
* User
* Desktop Session State (busy, default)

==== Use Cases ====

==== References ====
[1] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presence_information <<BR>>
[2] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Actor_%28UML%29 <<BR>>

others: <<BR>>
http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb878933%28office.12%29.aspx <<BR>>
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3863 <<BR>>
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2779.txt <<BR>>
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presence_information <<BR>>
http://saunderslog.com/voice-20/ <<BR>>
http://saunderslog.com/2006/12/19/new-presence-and-the-voice-20-manifesto/ <<BR>>
http://www.rageboy.com/stupidnet.html
