{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

VSI Series centrifugal impact crusher(sand making machine) is on the basis of our company’s many years’ research and development, manufacture of mining machinery as well as absorbing home and abroad advanced technology. It is the international advanced level of the new generation of energy-saving, efficient crusher. the performance in a variety of ores a chronology of equipment plays an irreplaceable role.
The machine can be widely used in metal and non-metallic minerals, building materials, sand making, crushing and shaping of all kinds of metallurgical slag. It is suitable for brittle materials with Mohs hardness under nine, not suitable for viscous material and rock with much dirt.

 Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST 
Advantage: 
1、Provide reasonable product selection and design.
2、Scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements.
3、Strict production process.
4、On time delivery .  

VSI Series Vertical Shaft Impact Crusher Working Principle:
In Centrifugal impact crusher, material of high speed is crushed by self-broken mutual friction. Centrifugal impact crusher can not only crush but also shape stones.
According to feeding method, centrifugal impact crusher working form is divided into central feeding and central with cascade feeding. The crush form is divided into “rock on rock’ and “rock on iron” According to material compressive strength, abradability. There are four working forms: central with cascade feeding “rock on rock” and rock on iron”; central feeding “rock on rock” and rock on iron”.

Web:
http://www.crushingmill.com
http://www.grinderpro.com
http://www.vipeakgroup.com 
http://www.crushermobile.com
http://www.vipeak.com/en
http://www.crushertrade.com
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com
http://www.vipeakcrusher.com  
http://www.vipeakmill.com
