{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/v/vtun]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Required for Eucalyptus features
0. ''Security:''
** No current <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=vtun|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=vtun|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** vtun binary runs as root.
** Due to the nature of vtun it accepts incoming traffic and opens a port
** It directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The situations where vtun does not work out of the box is that if the user misconfigures it for their specific setup.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:vtun|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: #292582 - doesnt handle ipv6
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/v/vtun.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://vtun.sourceforge.net/Upstream]]</nowiki> is dead.
** <nowiki>[[https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=2947&atid=102947|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>:
** No special hardware is needed.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses debhelper with quilt patching system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
* debhelper  - in main 
* quilt - in main 
* autotools-dev - in main 
* liblzo2-dev - in main 
* zlib1g-dev - in main 
* libssl-dev - in main 
* bison - in main 
* flex - in main 
0. ''Maintenance:''
* Considering there is no open bug reports in Ubuntu, the vtun is a relatively simple package to maintain which the ubuntu server team will maintain.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/412059]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
