{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Vũ Đỗ Quỳnh ===
Tôi là người Việt và tôi sống và làm việc tại hà Nội.<<BR>>
I'm a Vietnamese citizen (male) and I mainly live and work in Hanoi (Vietnam). 

* Do tôi đã sinh ra và lớn lên ở Pháp, cho nên, ngoài tiếng Việt, tôi giỏi tiếng Pháp và biết cả tiếng Anh nữa. Tôi đã bắt đầu dùng máy tính từ năm 1975 và đă bắt đầu làm quen với Linux từ 1995. Tuy nhiên tôi vẫn củ yếu dùng Windows trong công việc hằng ngày. Hiện nay tôi đang dùng Windows song song với Ubuntu.

* I am fluent in French (I was born in France and lived there a very long time) and in English and have been using computers since 1975. I started to get acquainted with Linux (Slackware) around the mid-nineties but sticked (and still do) with Windows. I use Ubuntu (Breezy) for less than one year but in alternance with Windows. 

Tại Hà Nội, tôi đang làm việc cho Tổ chức hợp tác đại học Pháp Ngữ (AUF) và có nhiệm vụ quản lý một trung tâm truy cập thông tin kỹ thuật số, với khoảng  máy tính nối mạng Internet và đang cài Ubuntu Breezy (sắp tới sẽ là Dapper Drake).

The place where I work in Hanoi is an IT center from the Agence universitaire de la Francophonie (AUF http://www.auf.org/) which is an international organization, depending on the International organization of the French-speaking countries and governments (OIF), and aiming at facilitating cooperation between universities of the Developed and Developing part of the French-speaking countries and government. The AUF is supporting free softwares and promotes their use in its IT centers devoted to students and academics from developing countries where AUF is present (like in Vietnam). Thus, the IT center that I manage in Hanoi has Ubuntu running on all the public computers (about 20) as Ubuntu has been officially endorsed by AUF in its IT supporting program.

You can visit the following sites that I manage or help to manage :

* Centres Linux et Logiciels Libres pour le développement Vietnam (French and Vietnamese) : http://hanoi.centre-linux.org/
* HanoiLUG (English and Vietnamese) : http://www.hanoilug.org/

Email: 
...

----
CategoryHomepage
