{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu 3G Networking Experience (Intrepid Spec) ===

* Blueprint: UbuntuSpec:3g-networking-intrepid
* Drafter: AlexanderSack
* Target: Intrepid and beyond

==== Use Cases ====

* Martin frequently travels for business reasons and is regularly at
 places that don't have public wifi. He still needs to be online
 and uses 3G services to get connected. When he starts his laptop
 he can use network manager to dial up and can happily use online
 services like web and email.
* Tony owns a mobile Internet device with 3G support. He frequently accesses his
 internet from places with no wifi, but can happily do so using 3G
 services through the integrated hardware.
* Chris has a 3G flatrate and wants as much online as possible. He
 configures the 3G connection associated with his flatrate
 subscription for auto connect and can happily roam to and from 3G
 networking.

==== Tasks ====

''More or less sorted by priority (highest priority first)''

* Ship network manager 0.7 on the desktop and get as many 3G options
 fixed; NM 0.7 already has basic support for CDMA and GSM connections,
 however, work might still be required to polish both the UI and the
 daemon. (essential)

* Assemble a list of frequently used hardware and 3G providers in the
 markets with the highest 3G penetration. For this we need to identify
 the markets with the highest 3G penetration as well as the
 hardware/service-providers commonly used in those markets. (important)

* Get most important hardware and subscriptions early in the release
 cycle to ensure that as many options as possible can be verified
 and get fixed. (mostly-essential)

* Unlocking devices appears to be a special case that will need be
 taken care of once we can test the various options presented above.
 (important)

* Take into account, that there are multiple classes for client
 devices (like PCMCIA or USB modem-like devices, mobile phones
 connected via USB, mobile phones connected via Bluetooth), and all
 of them are widely used. (important)

* Work on advanced but maybe required features: like "enable roaming
 for 3G subscriptions" (see Use Cases) and advanced power-saving
 logics important for UME. This might require some work, but most
 likely would be a welcome upstream contribution. (nice-to-have)

* Enable Hardware QA on the Ubuntu QA website. At this stage the
 hardware tester should ask the user just about his general
 experience with the given card. At some later points more automated
 tests could be run or data auto gathered (nice-to-have).

==== Implementation Notes ====
 
* '''3G Market Information''' ''(as of July 2008)'' - ''228 Operators in 94 Countries''

   WCDMA Subscribers Growth Rate:
*** Eastern Europe: 204%
*** Africa: 191%
*** Middle East: 175%
*** North America: 166%
*** APAC: 63%
*** Western Europe: 57%
   HSPA Statistics:
*** HSDPA
**** 207 Commercial Operators:
***** APAC: 44
***** Europe: 110
***** MEA: 26
***** Americas-Caribbean: 27
*** HSUPA
**** 51 Commercial Operators:
***** APAC: 7
***** Europe: 38
***** MEA: 4
***** Americas-Caribbean: 2
   There are 637 HSDPA devices by 110 Suppliers currently in the market, of which the distribution is:
**** 48.8% Cellphones/UMPCs/PMPs/Cameras (311)
**** 41.8% Notebooks/Modems (266)
**** 9.4% Wireless Routers (60)
   ''Data Compiled From: Internet Search, 3G World Congress, GSACOM''       
* (to be filled out while performing the tasks above)
* See <nowiki>[[NetworkManager-Hardware-3G]]</nowiki>
